                                                                             Report No. 93895-BR.



Governance Partnership Facility Trust Fund Project

Bottom-up Costing for Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks in Brazil and
Indonesia




Review of International Practices for Determining
Medium Term Resource Needs of Spending Agencies
Output 2 Final Report
May 2014




Dr Michael Di Francesco

Senior Lecturer in Public Sector Management

The Australia and New Zealand School of Government (ANZSOG) and The University of
Melbourne

Rafael Barroso

Economist, The World Bank



 The project team would like to thank the following Government officials who kindly responded to our
questionnaire and follow up questions: Mr. Gareth Hall, Dr. Leanne Blackley, Ms. Amanda Lee and Ms Jennifer
Torres (Australia); Mr. Tobias Orischnig (Austria); Ms. Sally Thornton and Mr George Samiotis (Canada); and
Mr. Lucas van den Akker (Netherlands).

                                                                                                         1
© 2013 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / The World Bank

1818 H Street NW

Washington DC 20433

Telephone: 202-473-1000

Internet: www.worldbank.org

This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank with external contributions. The findings,
interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this work do not necessarily reflect the views of The
World Bank, its Board of Executive Directors, or the governments they represent.

The World Bank does not guarantee the accuracy of the data included in this work. The boundaries,
colors, denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do not imply any
judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or the
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


Rights and Permissions


The material in this work is subject to copyright. Because The World Bank encourages dissemination
of its knowledge, this work may be reproduced, in whole or in part, for non-commercial purposes as
long as full attribution to this work is given.

Any queries on rights and licenses, including subsidiary rights, should be addressed to the Office of
the Publisher, The World Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA; fax: 202-522-
2422; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.


Cover photo:     Gráfica e Editora Executiva

Cover Design:    Gráfica e Editora Executiva
                 www.graficaexecutiva.com




                                                                                                   2
FOREWORD
This volume presents two research reports carried out with the objective of advancing
practical knowledge in costing and use of cost information in the public sector. Both reports
were carried out with support of the Governance Partnership Facility Trust Fund and in
partnership between the Brazilian and Indonesian country offices of the World Bank.

The first report aims to review international practices for determining medium term resource
needs of spending agencies (what is also referred to as ‘bottom-up costing’ for Medium Term
Expenditure Frameworks). The principal objective is to compile comparative information on
practices and methodologies used by selected OECD countries to determine program costs as
part of their medium term expenditure planning.

The second report details the experiences of three selected subnational governments in Brazil:
São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul and Pernambuco with the development and use of cost
information. The main objective is to present comparative information on practices adopted
by these jurisdictions. It is expected that this volume helps to fill a gap in the technical
literature by presenting practical examples of the development and use of cost information
within budgetary and fiscal planning frameworks in advanced and developing countries both
at the national and subnational level.




                                                                                            3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Executive summary ................................................................................................................................. 6
1. Purpose and scope of review............................................................................................................... 8
1.1       Background ................................................................................................................................. 8
1.2       Key issues and research methods ................................................................................................ 9
1.3       Cost practices for MTEFs: A gap in the technical literature ....................................................... 9
1.4       Distinguishing program costing and fiscal forecasting practices .............................................. 10
1.5       Data collection, method and structure....................................................................................... 12
1.6       Defining key operational concepts ............................................................................................ 14
2. Defining and implementing MTEF ................................................................................................... 16
2.1       Defining a medium term expenditure framework ..................................................................... 16
2.2       Objectives of an MTEF ............................................................................................................. 17
2.3       Common types of MTEFs ......................................................................................................... 18
2.4       Linking the MTEF with annual budgeting: A ‘rolling baseline’ illustration ............................ 19
2.5       Where and how costing is important to the stages of an MTEF ............................................... 21
3. MTEF institutional arrangements and procedures ............................................................................ 24
3.1       Introduction ............................................................................................................................... 24
3.2       Institutional, policy and legal arrangements ............................................................................. 24
3.3       Scope of forward estimates ....................................................................................................... 26
3.4       Elements of the forward estimates ............................................................................................ 28
4. MTEF program costing frameworks, practices and methods ........................................................... 30
4.1       Introduction ............................................................................................................................... 30
4.2       Requirements and guidance for program specification ............................................................. 30
4.3       Requirements and guidance for program costing...................................................................... 34
4.4       Methodologies and coverage of program costing ..................................................................... 36
5. MTEF budget and forward year cost estimates practices ................................................................. 45
5.1       Introduction ............................................................................................................................... 45
5.2       Application of costing guidelines over the budget and forward years ...................................... 45
5.3       Application of costing approaches as part of forecasting methodologies ................................. 49
6. Costing for MTEF: key practice themes ........................................................................................... 53
6.1       Introduction and general observations ...................................................................................... 53
6.2       The role of ‘bottom up’ costing depends on the ‘type’ of MTEF ............................................. 54
6.3       The focus of costing and cost information is new programs or expanded existing programs .. 55
6.4       Capacity to define existing and new policy is important .......................................................... 55




                                                                                                                                                       4
6.5     The analytical distinction between conventional costing practices and forecasting practices is
instructive.............................................................................................................................................. 56
6.6        Cost information (for new policy) is mandated, but costing methods are only recommended . 56
7. Case study institutional summaries ................................................................................................... 58
Case 1. Australia ................................................................................................................................... 58
Case 2. Austria ...................................................................................................................................... 62
Case 3. Canada ...................................................................................................................................... 66
Case 4. The Netherlands ....................................................................................................................... 72
References and resources ...................................................................................................................... 75
Annex 1. Finance Ministry Interviews .................................................................................................. 81
Annex 2. Finance Ministry Questionnaire ........................................................................................... 82




                                                                                                                                                          5
Executive summary


This report reviews international practices for determining medium term resource needs of
spending agencies, what is also referred to as ‘bottom-up costing’ for medium term
expenditure frameworks (MTEFs).

The MTEF is a set of institutional, policy and legal arrangements that use multiyear estimates
of revenues and expenditures to account for the consequences of current year budget
decisions; as such, it is an integral component of more strategic budget preparation and fiscal
planning. From a macro-fiscal perspective, MTEFs are important because they incorporate
the multi-annual nature of the fiscal policy into the budget process, mitigating the short term
bias of the annual budget process. They also allow for the full incorporation of the effects of
policy decisions and provide for a more comprehensive fiscal sustainability picture.

The effectiveness of the MTEF in these roles is dependent on the accuracy of spending
ministry cost estimates for existing and proposed programs. Good bottom-up costing lends
more credibility and legitimacy to the process. They also constitute an important step towards
more performance informed budget processes. However, there are significant gaps in our
current understanding of how costing and cost information is implemented within MTEFs.

The objective of the report therefore is to assemble information on practices used in four
OECD countries – Australia, Austria, Canada and the Netherlands – to determine program
costs as part of medium term expenditure planning, and to provide preliminary observations
on the strengths and weaknesses of current arrangements. In order to do this, the report makes
an analytical distinction between general guidelines on methods for program costing, and
‘costing’ requirements for forecasting and estimates construction in support of medium term
expenditure planning.

The overall findings of the report are that current costing practices, as well as their integration
with MTEF budget processes, fall short of the declared design objectives of MTEFs, and that
as a threshold consideration there is a need to clarify and strengthen the role of spending
ministries in cost estimation for baseline expenditures.

The report makes some specific observations on the status of program costing practices
within the MTEFs of surveyed jurisdictions. These are set out in Part 6 and indicate:



                                                                                                 6
      whilst there is no typical MTEF, some features tend to be more compatible with a
       greater role for bottom-up costing – costing was relatively more systematised within
       the ‘indicative MTEFs’ operating in Australia and Canada, where there was also a
       strong policy commitment to consistency in program specification
      where they are specified, costing practices are generally expected to be used across
       the entire budget, but in practice the focus is overwhelmingly on new or expanded
       programs – costing practices are routinized in neither Austria nor the Netherlands,
       whilst in Australia and Canada, where costing guidelines are issued, the emphasis on
       new spending means that ‘bottom-up’ costing is not routine for the base
      the capacity to distinguish existing and new programs is important in utilizing cost
       information – the distinction underpins the ‘rolling baseline’ MTEF in Australia and
       Canada even though in practice approved new program spending is often subsumed
       into the base, and is less important in Austria and the Netherlands where the emphasis
       is more on managing expenditures within fixed ceilings
      the distinction between conventional program costing and forecasting helps to explain
       differences in costing approaches – in all jurisdictions program costing is seen as a
       spending ministry responsibility but within the MTEF these practices are framed by
       forecasting methodologies, and one of the key differences is the costing role of
       independent fiscal forecasters in Austria and the Netherlands
      where they are specified, costing methodologies are recommended but not mandated
       – in Australia and Canada cost templates are required for presenting cost information
       in the MTEF budget process but the basis of costing (the methods and program
       specific assumptions used) are left principally to the discretion of spending ministries.

Following an introductory section explaining the project and its background, the report is
organized into six substantive parts. Part 2 defines and describes the role of MTEFs. Parts 3,
4 and 5 survey the key themes in costing approaches within MTEFs, covering institutional,
legal and policy arrangements for MTEFs; policies and practices relating to program
specification and program costing methodologies; and MTEF budget and forward year cost
estimates practices. These parts use a common structure that sets out shared and country-
specific features across the four survey jurisdictions. Each part includes a précis table of
jurisdictional responses. These parts draw on, and should be read in conjunction with, the
institutional case summaries for each jurisdiction that appear in Part 7.



                                                                                               7
1. Purpose and scope of review


This part will:
    provide an overview of the objectives, key questions and methods of the review
    identify the nature of key gaps in the technical literature on the operation and
       implementation of medium term expenditure frameworks (MTEFs)
    define important operational terms and concepts.



1.1        Background
The World Bank has received funding from the Governance Partnership Facility Trust Fund
to advance knowledge on practical aspects of the implementation of medium term
expenditure frameworks (MTEFs).

In this context, the Latin America and Caribbean, and the East Asia and Pacific, regional
units of the Bank have initiated the Bottom-up Costing for MTEF in Brazil and Indonesia
Project (‘the Project’) to support the improvement of program costing practices in Indonesia
and selected sub-national governments in Brazil.

The aim of the Project is to review international practices for determining medium term
resource needs of spending agencies (what is also referred to as ‘bottom-up costing’ for
MTEFs). The principal objective is to compile comparative information on practices and
methodologies used by selected OECD countries to determine program costs as part of their
medium term expenditure planning. The selected case study jurisdictions are Australia,
Austria, Canada and the Netherlands.1

This report assembles case study data on costing practices for MTEFs and provides some
preliminary observations on the strengths and weaknesses of current arrangements, as well as
the status of costing within conventional understandings of MTEF guidance. These
observations suggest that current practices fall short of the declared design objectives of
MTEFs, and that as a threshold consideration there is a need to clarify and strengthen the role
of spending ministries in cost estimation for baseline expenditures.

The focus of this Project is on the costing of budget programs as opposed to other approaches
with different costing objects. Therefore, the methodology and the findings presented here are
1
    The rationale for case selection is explained in Section 1.5, below.

                                                                                             8
much more of a managerial perspective rather than a pure cost accounting one. Nevertheless,
most practical questions are common to both views, thus making this report of use to both
cost accounting experts and policy makers.


1.2      Key issues and research methods
The scoping study for the project identified two key issues that were to frame the report and
its approach. The first relates to the current treatment of MTEFs in the public financial
management technical literature and the way this tended to emphasise general design
principles rather than the practical detail of implementation (this is especially the case in
respect of technical assistance to transitional and less developed countries).2 The second issue
revolves around the interaction between general guideline methods for program costing that
finance ministries3 have issued for use by spending ministries and the specific requirements
for costing that finance ministries employ to standardize program costs for use in preparing
forward estimates of expenditure.


1.3      Cost practices for MTEFs: A gap in the technical literature
The first issue suggests highlights the importance of the way the design of MTEFs ‘scaffolds’
into their implementation. Good practice guidance relating to MTEFs asserts the importance
to medium term budgeting of rigorous program costing by spending ministries (usually in the
absence of describing these practices in any useful detail), and the disciplinary function of
top-down expenditure ceilings. Two recent international surveys of MTEF experience help to
illustrate the tension.

The first review is sourced from the World Bank and assesses the comparative effectiveness
of MTEFs (World Bank 2013). The report emphasises that an ‘effective MTEF’ depends on
spending ministry capability to ‘cost programs’ using the ‘best available techniques for
costing’, and that in preparing medium term budget requests spending agencies should ensure
coverage of the ‘cost of current and new activities’ (World Bank 2013, 25). The relevant
techniques are principally those of ‘cost analysis’, which ‘identifies existing and announced
programs and estimates program costs on the basis of projected developments in these cost


2
  Often this is because in these countries some of the key prerequisites for MTEFs are either absent or
rudimentary. These conditions include budget outturn close to original budget, clear distinction between existing
and new programs, and well-developed implementation plans that allow spending ministries to explain
incremental adjustments (see Oxford Policy Management 2009).
3
  Key terms, such as ‘finance ministry’ and ‘spending ministry’, are defined later in this chapter.

                                                                                                               9
drivers’ (World Bank 2013, 65).4 In this context, of course, finance ministries will often
establish systems that are designed to thoroughly test both the accuracy and reasonableness of
program and cost information presented by spending ministries. In summary, the report
emphasizes that an MTEF usually comprises three sequential stages that (a) set initial
allocations to ministries in accordance with top-down resource envelope, (b) consider
spending ministry estimates of their resource requirements for continuing and new activities,
and (c) determine the medium term resource needs of spending agencies before finally
agreeing on the expenditure allocations (World Bank 2013, 17-18). To a large degree, current
PFM literature appears to lack guidance on how to conduct the ‘bottom up’ costing which is
the second step.

The second, broader survey comes from a recent International Monetary Fund review of
public financial management reforms (Harris, Hughes, Ljungman and Saterialie 2013). This
lists better understanding of ‘policy cost drivers’ among the technical benefits of a medium
term budget framework and emphasises, in the context of budget prioritization, the need for
‘a clear separation between the cost of maintaining existing policies and the cost of new
policy initiatives in budget documents, based on an unambiguous and widely accepted
methodology’ (Harris, Hughes, Ljungman and Saterialie 2013, 139, 156). There is, however,
no further elaboration on what types of costing practices might inform the methodology, who
should be undertaking the costing or where in the process such cost information should
ideally be brought to bear.

A primary objective of the project therefore is to help address aspects of this gap by collating
comparative information on costing practices and methodologies across a range of OECD
countries. It is an assessment of specified MTEF practices in depth rather than frameworks in
breadth (the rationale and methods for costing practices); and employs the case study
approach to provide a rich analysis of the intent and scope of costing practices in order to
illustrate.


1.4     Distinguishing program costing and fiscal forecasting practices
The second issue relating to the interaction between program costing and forecasting
practices is critical because it suggests that for analytical purposes it is necessary to
4
  It is also worth noting that in commenting on the sequence of policy, budgeting and technical enablers of
MTEF implementation, the World Bank considers that a system of program costing is the prerequisite for a
second stage medium term budget framework, whereas fiscal forecasting is the basic requirement for a first
stage medium term fiscal framework (World Bank 2013, 76-77).

                                                                                                              10
distinguish between two sets of practices: general guidelines on methods for program costing
and the development of costing systems on one hand, and on the other hand requirements for
costing that are specific to determining program costs in support of medium term expenditure
planning.5

The first set of practices cover sector-wide guidelines that define cost concepts, methods of
cost allocation, the relationship between costs and program classifications for budget
expenditures, cost management and the construction of cost information systems. Such
guidelines are usually directed at standardizing the costing methodology (and cost object)
definitions, improving the accuracy of basic cost information and supporting capability
development across the public sector (see, for example, New Zealand Treasury 1994, Victoria
Department of Treasury and Finance 1997, New South Wales Treasury 2007, Treasury Board
Secretariat of Canada 2008).

The second set of practices cover a range of requirements that ensure comparability across
program costings for use in budget formulation processes and forecasting methodologies for
projecting forward estimates of expenditures (and, increasingly, in procedures for
independent costing of political party policy commitments during election periods) (see for
instance, within a surprisingly limited literature, Vasche, Williams and Ingenito 2008;
Mikesell 2011).6 Such requirements are commonly directed at ensuring consistency in (or the
consistent application of differential approaches to) economic parameters, cost base
assumptions and price adjustments over the forward year expenditure planning period.




5
  Consistent application of program costing methodologies is essential to generating more accurate cost
information to support resource allocation and management decision-making. At the same time, and especially
during periods of fiscal consolidation, governments undertake efforts to encourage greater efficiency or identify
opportunities for reprioritizing expenditure (spending review functions and Value for Money reports); cost
information should inform these efforts but they are by and large separate matters and are beyond the scope of
this paper. For example, since the late 1980s the Australian government has applied an ‘efficiency dividend’ – a
general reduction in departmental operating expenses ranging between 1 and 4% per annum – that is
incorporated across the budget and forward estimates. The reduction is applied in the expectation that
departments will reconfigure their operations to deliver greater productivity.
6
  In some jurisdictions, such as Australia and New Zealand, procedures have been legislated for the costing of
policy commitments made by major political parties during election periods. (Broadly similar arrangements
operate by convention in other jurisdictions, such as in the Netherlands). This costing function is located with
either finance ministries or specially constituted independent bodies, such as parliamentary budget offices. The
MTEF in these countries is the baseline for updating the fiscal position at the time of the election – for example,
the Pre-election Economic and Fiscal Outlook (PEFO) report in Australia (Commonwealth of Australia 2012) –
as well as for estimating the fiscal impact of policy commitments made during the election. The procedures
usually specify cost methodologies and assumptions consistent with conventional cost practices. Methodologies
used in the Australian case correspond with conventional costing practices, and are discussed later in the report.

                                                                                                                11
The distinction can be illustrated using the example of a program delivering training services
to assist unemployed people find work. When costing such a program, general costing
guidelines may require a spending ministry to assign indirect costs (such as depreciation on
central information technology systems) in ways specific to the cost function of that service
type, whereas budget process methodologies for preparing estimates may require the
application of standardized price adjustments to direct staffing costs (such as case managers)
over the forward years to ensure comparability of those cost types across all programs being
considered in the MTEF budget process. In other words, spending ministries would be
expected to apply the general guidelines in costing initiatives irrespective of whether the
costing exercise was undertaken in the context of a MTEF budget process.

Ultimately within an MTEF the two sets of practices are integrated, but it is useful to
distinguish between them to help explain basic requirements for program costing and
additional requirements to enable those costings to support the forward year planning period.
Therefore, the case study practices in this report will, as far as possible, ‘unbundle’ the two
sets of practices for description and analysis.


1.5       Data collection, method and structure
The report is principally a comparative case study analysis of institutions, rules and practices
governing costing for MTEF budget processes: the intention is to discuss high level practice
themes. The primary data sources comprise questionnaire responses from finance ministries,
interviews with selected finance ministry officials and review of policy and procedural
documents. 7 The secondary data sources comprise review of relevant public financial
management technical and scholarly literatures. The report summarises similarities and
differences between the four case study jurisdictions.

The purpose of the case study analysis is to contrast and compare costing practices for MTEF
budget processes in national government across a range of advanced economies. Four
countries – Australia, Austria, Canada and the Netherlands – were selected for review using
the following criteria:

         membership of the OECD group of advanced economies

7
  The Finance Ministry Questionnaire appears at Annex 2. Questionnaire responses were received from
Australia, Austria and Canada; the Netherlands submitted general explanatory documentation. All responses
were incomplete, and in particular there were no usable responses to Section D of the questionnaire covering
‘systemic enablers and inhibitors’. As a consequence, Section D was omitted from the final scope of the project.

                                                                                                             12
            evidence of either being a public financial management reform leader or having
             significant recent reform experience
            representative of different ‘administrative traditions’ to demonstrate MTEF practice
             across a range of institutional arrangements and cultural contexts
            supported by a reasonable level of access to official documentation and secondary
             analysis of reform (principally in English).

The questionnaire was also sent to the finance ministries of Spain and France, in order to
assess experiences from countries with more similar administrative traditions to Latin
American countries, but no response was obtained. Exhibit 1 below sets out key
characteristics of each jurisdiction.


Exhibit 1. OECD case study selection

           Country              PFM Reform Experience                  Administrative Tradition 8

           Australia            Reform leader                          Westminster
                                                                       Common law / federalist
           Austria              Recent MTEF reform                     Codified
                                                                       Germanic / federalist
           Canada               Reform leader                          Westminster
                                                                       Common law / federalist
           Netherlands          Recent MTEF reform                     Codified
                                                                       Germanic




Following an overview chapter (Part 2) that surveys the design and implementation of
MTEFs, the report is structured around the key areas of MTEF practice: institutional
arrangements and procedures (Part 3), program costing frameworks and practices (Part 4),
and budget and forward years cost estimates (Part 5). Relevant case study experience is
extracted in these parts, and institutional summaries are contained in Part 7. Part 6 is a
concluding section that provides observations on the current status of MTEF costing practices
as reported by finance ministries. Readers who are familiar with MTEF concepts and
practices can skip Part 2 and go straight to Part 3.




8
    Descriptors for administrative traditions are based on typologies set out in Painter and Peters (2010).


                                                                                                              13
1.6    Defining key operational concepts
The following operational terms and concepts will be used throughout the report. While some
will be defined with more specificity in the context of individual case studies, the following
definitions are provided as a common starting point.

Finance Ministry – executive government central agency with primary responsibility for the
fiscal framework, budget process and financial management systems

Spending Ministry – executive government line agency that receives budget funding to
deliver or purchase public services

Costs – the monetary value of the resources (human, physical or financial) used to achieve a
particular objective; costs usually relate to a cost object (an activity, program, project,
product, service, client or organization); costs can be distinguished from expenditure which is
the amount of money that has been spent during a defined period

Direct costs – costs that can be directly traced to a cost object in an economically feasible
way; an example of a direct cost is the salary of an employee whose work relates entirely to a
single project

Indirect costs – costs that cannot be directly traced to a cost object in an economically
feasible way; an example of an indirect cost is the depreciation on a corporate information
technology system or shared service centres such as human resources or fleet management

Cost System – an information system that collates and assigns costs to relevant cost objects;
such systems are not transactional type systems such as GFMIS (Government Financial
Management Information Systems) but rather BI (Business Intelligence) type systems that
collect information from different sources and organize under a costing perspective

Full costing – an approach to cost information that takes account of both the direct and
indirect costs of a cost object; it is usually associated with the use of accrual accounting and
requires three elements: an accurate asset register, estimates of depreciation (as a key indirect
cost) and a cost system to support the assignment of indirect costs to cost objects

Program – classification of budget expenditure categorised by the purpose (or objectives) of
the activities that the expenditure relates to; a program is the highest level of a budget
program hierarchy and should ideally map to an organization’s funded activities


                                                                                              14
Forward estimates – projections by a finance ministry of expenditures over a fixed term,
usually four years; they are the basis for medium term expenditure planning and may be used
as the basis for imposing expenditure limits

Existing and new programs – an existing program relates to activities that are currently
funded within the forward estimates of medium term expenditure planning; a new program
relates to new activities (or an expansion of existing activities) that are not currently funded
within the forward estimates; the term ‘new spending’ is also used as shorthand to refer to
expenditure on new programs and/or expanded existing programs

No policy change – forward estimates of spending prepared under the assumption that laws,
policies, behavioural and economic assumptions in the baseline program cost calculation
remain in place

Policy and parameter changes – the main types of variations to baseline expenditure over a
defined forward estimates period; a policy change is a government decision to fund a new
program or an expansion of an existing program that is not contained in the forward
estimates; a parameter change is a variation to either a non-economic parameter (such
assumptions about the number of beneficiaries for an existing program) or an economic
parameter (such as assumptions about the rates of inflation or employment that affect existing
programs)

Forecasting and projecting – a forecast takes into account cyclical variation in economic
activity (such as future changes in exchange rates) and reflects what is expected to happen; a
projection is based on assumptions (such as long run average growth rates for inflation) and
shows what would happen if those assumptions continued to hold.




                                                                                             15
2. Defining and implementing MTEF


This part will:
    define and describe the role of a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF)
    outline the common technical objectives of MTEFs
    distinguish common types of MTEFs and how they relate to the technical objectives
    describe the linkage between a typical MTEF process and annual budgeting
    describe where and how costing is important to the stages of a typical MTEF.



2.1      Defining a medium term expenditure framework
The medium term expenditure framework (or MTEF) is one of the key budget planning and
management practices that define contemporary public financial management reform in
advanced countries. In its 2012 budget practices survey, for example, the OECD reported that
nearly 90% of advanced economies had implemented some form of MTEF as part of their
national budgeting framework (see OECD International Database of Budget Practices and
Procedures 2012).

In conjunction with other public financial management developments, such as fiscal rules and
performance budgeting, the MTEF is an important way of addressing some of the key
shortcomings recognised in annual budgeting. An annual budget for revenues and
expenditures often does not take account of the consequences of current year budget
decisions in subsequent years. To better understand the fiscal impact of policies, to more
effectively set current and future policy priorities, and to exercise control over budget
aggregates, a MTEF integrates the annual budget formulation cycle with a medium-term
planning process (where ‘medium term’ is usually defined as 3 to 5 years).

An MTEF is therefore not simply the documentation of multiyear estimates of revenue and
expenditures alongside the annual budget, but rather ‘all the systems, rules and procedures
that ensure the government’s fiscal plans are drawn up with a view to their impact over
several years’ (Harris, Hughes, Ljungman and Sateriale 2013, 137).9 As this implies there is a
wide range of approaches to – and terms used to describe – the implementation of a MTEF
(discussed in Section 2.3, below). For illustrative purposes, we can define a MTEF as a

9
 Whilst the focus of this report is on the estimates of expenditure and the treatment of ‘new spending’ within an
MTEF budget process, it is important to note that new policy measures can include both expenditure and/or
revenue initiatives.

                                                                                                              16
multiyear expenditure planning and management framework that typically contains three
elements:

      1. a medium term envelope of aggregate resources set by the finance ministry that is
          consistent with macroeconomic stability and government policy priorities (a ‘top-
          down’ component)
      2. an estimate of the medium term resource needs (or costs) of the existing activities of
          spending ministries (a ‘bottom-up’ component)
      3. an iterative process of budget decision making that reconciles the cost of existing and
          new activities with the resources available over the medium term (ODI 2003, 5 and
          World Bank 2013, 17-18).

The sequence for implementing an MTEF commonly starts with the first element (the top-
down specification of aggregate resources and their allocation across policy sectors or
spending ministries) and progresses to incorporate the second and third elements (the bottom-
up determination of spending ministry resource needs and their integration with the annual
budget process). The first element is dependent on the quality of macroeconomic forecasting
methodologies, and the second and third elements are, as discussed later, reliant on the
quality of budget program definition and the application of consistent costing methodologies.


2.2       Objectives of an MTEF
Consistent with a multiyear planning horizon for budgeting, a MTEF is usually associated
with the three key technical objectives of public budgeting:

         aggregate fiscal discipline, or better control over budget totals
         allocative efficiency, or more strategic allocation of resources between priorities
         technical efficiency, or more efficient use of resources by spending ministries.

These objectives receive detailed treatment in many places (see, for example, World Bank
1998, Allen and Tommasi 2001; Schick 2009). In summary we can note two points. First,
that when integrated with the annual budget process an MTEF can contribute to these
objectives in various ways:

         aggregate fiscal discipline can be improved by signalling to decision makers the
          sustainability of existing spending programs, setting out the multiyear impact of a



                                                                                                17
          new program prior to its adoption and establishing multiyear expenditure ceilings that
          help to contain expectations about future total expenditure
         allocative efficiency can be strengthened by providing decision makers with more
          detailed program cost and performance information as well as the flexibility of a
          longer timeframe to reallocate resources between lower and higher priority programs
         technical efficiency can be promoted by providing spending ministries with greater
          stability in funding levels and increased capacity to plan and manage resources over a
          multiyear (rather than an annual) budget authorisation.

Second, whilst the three objectives are often enumerated as discrete purposes in systemic
budget reform, in reality they can conflict – for example, the increased certainty necessary for
aggregate control is not always consistent with the flexibility required for reprioritising
spending – and therefore MTEF design will just as often have to trade-off between them.


2.3       Common types of MTEFs
Since they can be configured using different institutional arrangements, and at the same time
are expected to strike a balance between the three technical objectives, there are different
variants of the MTEF. It is important to distinguish the most common types of MTEFs
because the different emphases they place on the nature of the medium term estimates of
expenditure have consequences for the generation and role of cost information. There are two
common categories of MTEFs.

The first category is ‘forecasting versus programming’ MTEFs (Allen and Tommasi 2001,
182-3; Schiavo-Campo 2007). This categorises MTEFs on the basis of where and how the
medium term estimates of expenditure are generated. In a ‘forecasting MTEF’ the finance
ministry produces medium term projections of estimated aggregate expenditure and may then
allocate this across sectors and spending ministries, who are expected to manage budgets
within the ceiling. A forecasting MTEF is therefore ‘top down’ and based on the best
estimates of the finance ministry (and, in the context of transitional and less developed
countries, often not revenue constrained). In a ‘programming MTEF’ the finance ministry
constructs medium term projections of estimated aggregate expenditure based on the costing
by spending ministries of existing programs. A programming MTEF is therefore ‘bottom-up’
– the forward estimates are built on the funding needs of costed programs – and because it is




                                                                                             18
intended to be revenue constrained this variant makes a clear distinction between ‘existing’
and ‘new’ programs.

The second category is ‘indicative versus binding’ MTEFs (Allen and Tommasi 2001, 184-5;
Harris, Hughes, Ljungman and Sateriale 2013). This categorises MTEFs on the basis of
whether the medium term estimates presented with the budget are intended to bind future
decisions, i.e. whether they are ‘hard’ or ‘soft’ expenditure ceilings. In an ‘indicative MTEF’
the medium term estimates of both revenue and expenditure are revised each year without
reference to the estimates set out in the previous year. In such a framework the forward years
are intended to estimate future costs, and may set out the composition of expenditure in
detail, but do not always offer certainty for spending ministries. In a ‘binding MTEF’ the
medium term projections are designed to both estimate future costs and constrain future
decisions, although it can do this in different ways; for example, by fixing ceilings at either
the aggregate level (where the annual Budget process deals with the allocation between
spending ministries) or the ministry level (where the ceilings tend to be reset more frequently
through the Budget process) (see Harris, Hughes, Ljungman and Sateriale 2013, 143-144).


2.4    Linking the MTEF with annual budgeting: A ‘rolling baseline’ illustration
Whilst there is no ‘typical’ MTEF, it is instructive to briefly describe how a medium term
framework can be integrated with the annual budget process and how it can support a more
strategic approach to budget preparation. This can be explained using the mechanism of
‘rolling baselines’ and the concept of ‘fiscal space’.

Figure 1 sets out an illustrative ‘rolling’ MTEF. The MTEF covers a four year planning
period, comprising the budget year (year t) and three forward years (t+1 to t+3). The three
forward years comprise baseline projections of the cost of all existing programs, which reflect
government decisions on spending aggregates and policy priorities, and do not allow for the
introduction of new programs. These cost estimates set out in the forward years are said to be
on a ‘no policy change’ basis – expenditure on existing programs is assumed to be constant
so that any variations to the baseline can be explained. The purpose of the annual budget
process is to make sure that any incremental budget decisions – whether new programs or an
expansion of existing activities – are assessed and explained in terms of their impact on the
forward year estimates. In this way, and when combined with information on either the need




                                                                                            19
for – or the performance of – programs, the medium term estimates are designed to make
annual budget decisions more strategic.

Figure 1: A ‘rolling’ MTEF and the annual budget process10



                                       MTEF 2012 – 2015




        Budget Allocation   Forward Estimate         Forward Estimate           Forward Estimate
            2012 (t)           2013 (t+1)               2014 (t+2)                 2015 (t+3)


         For approval       Estimates on a no policy change basis for three forward years (t+3).    For next MTEF
                               Estimates are ‘rolled over’ as indicative allocations for the next    (2013-2016)
                             MTEF (2013-2016) by adjusting for new spending approved in the           add a new
                            2012 Budget and changes to economic forecasts. The forward year          forward year
                             (t+1) becomes the starting allocation (year t) for the 2013 Budget.         (t+3)


                            Budget Allocation        Forward Estimate           Forward Estimate    Forward Estimate
                                2013 (t)                2014 (t+1)                 2015 (t+2)          2016 (t+3)


                             For approval




                                                                   MTEF 2013 – 2016




Therefore, as a type of scorecard for annual budget decision making, the MTEF works
through the mechanism of ‘rolling baseline projections’: once the budget is finalised, the first
year of the forward estimates becomes the base year for next year’s budget and another
forward year is added to the estimates. Using the illustrative MTEF, this means that once the
2012 Budget is finalised, the 2012-2015 MTEF estimates are ‘rolled over’ by adjusting for
new programs approved in the 2012 Budget (and any adjustments to economic parameters).
The first forward year (t+1) becomes the starting budget allocation for the 2013 Budget
process, and a new forward year (t+3) is added to commence the 2013-2016 MTEF period.
And so on each year.

In this illustrative MTEF, the ‘no policy change’ basis of the cost projections over the
forward years is the level of expenditure required to continue to undertake existing activities,
i.e. the ‘baseline’. If there is also an aggregate expenditure ceiling in place over the medium
term estimates period, the difference between the ceiling and the baseline is known as ‘fiscal

10
     Diagram adapted from Overseas Development Institute (2003).

                                                                                                                       20
space’ (Schick 2009). 11 It follows that fiscal space can be ‘positive’ (where the available
revenue exceeds the baseline) or ‘negative’ (where the baseline exceeds the available
revenue). Both cases illustrate the fundamental importance of distinguishing ‘existing’ and
‘new’ programs within an MTEF, as well as the need for systemic capacity to define and cost
these programs. In circumstances of positive fiscal space, the budget process rations available
resources between new or expanded programs, and in the case of negative fiscal space it
becomes a framework for reviewing and reprioritising existing spending. A high level of
integration is required between the annual budget process and the MTEF to make this work
(Schick 2009; see also Robinson 2013a).


2.5     Where and how costing is important to the stages of an MTEF
Different types of MTEF place varying emphasis on the role of ‘top-down’ forecasting and
‘bottom-up’ costing within the medium term estimate. However, each category of MTEF, and
the budget process to which it relates, implements a basic sequence of stages and
informational outputs. These stages can be used to identify where and how costing practices
and cost information are critical to an illustrative MTEF budget process.

Figure 2 below sets out a basic five stage process for an illustrative MTEF budget process.
The stages correspond with one or both of either the top-down (finance ministry) or bottom-
up (spending ministry) responsibilities. In stage 1, the finance ministry sets the strategic
macroeconomic framework, including multiyear projections for revenues, expenditures and
debt levels. In stage 2, the finance ministry prepares multiyear forecasts of spending on
existing programs which may involve allocating ceilings at the sectoral or ministry level. In
stage 3, spending ministries review their existing program spending and generate multiyear
cost estimates of existing programs, new programs and enhanced existing programs, or new
capital projects. Stage 4 is the finance ministry led annual budget process which assesses the
relative priority of spending ministry program cost estimates in the context of indicative
multiyear expenditure ceilings. In Stage 5 the annual budget is finalised in the context of the
multiyear estimates, identifying variations to the baselines and adjusting the estimates over
the multiyear period; this function is usually shared between the finance and spending
ministries. Different types of cost information support the process at different stages –

11
  The concept of ‘fiscal space’ is used here specifically to illustrate the interaction between ceili ngs and
baselines in the rolling estimates mechanism. It can, however, be defined in broader macro-prudential terms,
for example as a ‘government’s ability to undertake spending without impairing its solvency, that is, without
impairing its present and future ability to service its debt’ (World Bank 2006, 14).

                                                                                                            21
      although arguably it informs all of them – and are of critical importance in Stages 2 and 3
      combined, and Stage 4.

      Figure 2. Basic stages of an illustrative MTEF budget process12




                  Stage 1.                          Stage 2.                   Stage 4.
Top-down




              Macroeconomic                     Multiyear fiscal           Assess program
               framework +                          envelop +               proposals and
                  resource                     initial sectoral or          reconcile with                 Stage 5.
                 availability                  ministry ceilings               ceilings                 Finalise budget
                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                             adjust
                                                  Stage 3.                                                 multiyear
                                                                                                           estimates
Bottom-up




                                              Sector or ministry
                                                  review of
                                               programs and
                                                  costings




      In stages 2 and 3, multiyear estimates can be constructed using either finance ministry
      projections of current spending trends, spending agency costings of existing programs or a
      combination of both. More often than not these estimates take as their source historical
      spending data for ministries or functions, rather than constructing total cost estimates based
      on the actual costing of existing activities (or programs). Finance ministries will tend to apply
      general costing assumptions to existing programs as part of forecasting methodologies (such
      as labour and non-labour deflators to escalate expenditure) and require spending ministries
      within the budget process to apply more specific costing methodologies when preparing cost
      estimates for new – or expanded existing – programs (such as demographic or economic data
      to estimate demand for entitlement programs). Therefore, the accuracy and consistency of
      new program costing take on a higher priority within the incremental decision making of the
      annual budget process. In summary, there are two types of ‘costing’ exercise that inform a
      MTEF budget process: the way general costing assumptions inform forecasting
      methodologies, and the way costing methodologies inform consideration of programs in the
      annual budget cycle, generally restricted to new or expanded programs.13

      Cost information has been a fundamental component of public financial management reform
      over the last quarter century. In large part, this can be attributed to the general focus of these


      12
        Diagram adapted from Overseas Development Institute (2003) and Dorotinsky (2006).
      13
        In addition, and as discussed briefly in the previous chapter, in some jurisdictions the application of consistent
      costing methods is also important for multiyear costing of policy commitments made by major political parties
      during election periods.

                                                                                                                          22
reforms on programmatic budgeting, which requires that budget expenditures be allocated
and controlled on the basis of objectives-based programs and subprograms. Because program
structures constitute instructions to organizational units on how to manage and control their
budgeted resources, this has two important consequences (Robinson 2013b). The first is that
program structures need to be defined in a feasible way to ensure allocations can be mapped
between programs and organizational structures, as well as to permit a workable approach to
assigning indirect costs – usually internal support services – to programs. In this context,
programs costs include all direct costs (such as staff salaries) and indirect costs (such as
imputed use of car fleets). The second consequence is that program structures must be
integrated with both budget expenditure classifications and the chart of accounts. Cost
information, and the costing systems used to collect and report cost information, must be
closely aligned with the program structure (Robinson 2007).

In principle then, the budget and forward years’ estimates within a MTEF should be
constructed on the basis of estimating the actual cost of existing government programs, across
ministries and sectors, rather than taking historical levels of budgeted expenditure as a
starting point and mechanistically escalating for changes in, say, price levels. In other words,
the effectiveness of both ‘forecasting’ (top-down) and ‘programmatic’ (‘bottom-up’) MTEFs
is dependent on the accuracy of spending ministry cost estimates for both existing and
proposed programs, which in turn relies on the feasibility of program structure definition. In
this way, costing methodologies, and the capacity to apply them, form the foundation of
MTEF implementation.




                                                                                             23
3. MTEF institutional arrangements and procedures


This part will describe the common and exceptional features of MTEFs across the four survey
jurisdictions in three thematic areas:
     the institutional, legal and policy arrangements for MTEFs (including the budget
        calendar, and the level of integration with the annual budget process)
     the scope of the forward estimates (including their timeframe, the basis of their
        preparation, and how they are reported)
     the key elements of the forward estimates (including responsibility for their
        preparation, the frequency of their updates, and the extent to which they distinguish
        existing and new programs).



3.1     Introduction
This part reports the distinguishing characteristics of the institutional arrangements and
procedures for MTEFs operating across the four survey jurisdictions. The purpose is to
isolate the key themes arising from the individual case studies and to provide context for the
more specific treatment of costing practices covered in Parts 4 and 5. The method is to
compare and contrast institutional settings for MTEFs using the survey questions. Table 3.1
sets out the institutional arrangements and procedures in summary form.


3.2     Institutional, policy and legal arrangements
This theme covers the legal and policy basis of the MTEF in survey jurisdictions, and the
extent to which the MTEF is integrated with the annual budget process.

In three of the survey jurisdictions the MTEF is implemented through administrative policy
                        14
and/or convention.           In Australia and Canada, both of which are Westminster-type
parliamentary systems, the finance ministries manage an inter-related set of administrative
arrangements around Cabinet budget committees, and the planning function of forward
estimates constitute the basis of a ‘policy’ MTEF. In addition, in Australia the policy
practices of the forward estimates are reflected in ‘fiscal rules’ legislation that requires
medium-term fiscal reporting as part of the annual budget documentation. In the Netherlands,
and like other codified continental systems, the budget process is specified in basic legislation
(and bounded by statutory adoption of European Union fiscal rules); however, key aspects of

14
 That is, the MTEF is not mandated in legislation but instead based on either directions from the Finance
Ministry or generally accepted practices.

                                                                                                            24
the MTEF, including fixed medium term expenditure limits, are governed by political norms,
especially the central role of Coalition Agreements in stipulating budget commitments over
the term of a government. The exception within our sample is Austria, also a codified
administrative system, which also has the most recently implemented MTEF. There, as part
of the political compact required for budget reforms, the timeframe, expenditure ceilings and
reporting elements of the MTEF are set out in legislation (Federal Organic Budget Act 2009).

Table 3.1 Comparative MTEF Institutional Arrangements: Summary of Responses

                  Australia               Austria                 Canada                   The Netherlands

Legal and/or      Policy +                Legal                   Policy                   Policy
policy basis?     Principles-based law    Federal Organic                                  Coalition
                  (Charter of Budget      Budget Act 2009                                  Agreement (CA)
                  Honesty Act 1998)

Integrated with   Yes                     Yes                     Yes                      Yes
the annual        High integration        High integration        High Integration         High Integration
budget process?

What is the       Four years              Four years              Three years              Four years + 1
timeframe         (Budget + three         (t+1 to t+4)            Annual Reference         (Annual budget
covered?          outyears)                                       Level Update             within 4 year
                                                                  (ARLU) is Budget +       expenditure limits
                                                                  two years                set out in CA +
                                                                  Budget papers            extrapolation year)
                                                                  report new
                                                                  initiatives separately

Are forward       Yes                     No                      Yes                      Yes
years on a no-    Forward years           Forward years           ARLU ‘cost of            Forward years
policy change     exclude new policy,     expenditure ceilings    existing non-            expenditure ceilings
basis? How        but include forecasts   have two                statutory programs’      are ‘real’
defined?          of economic and         components: 75%         Forward years
                  non-economic            fixed nominal and       exclude new policy,
                  parameters, which       25% variable            but include forecasts
                  are the basis for                               of economic and
                  costing existing                                non-economic
                  policies                                        parameters, which
                                                                  are the basis for
                                                                  costing existing
                                                                  policies

How are           Ministerial             Headings (sectors)      Departments and          Chapters
forward years     portfolios and          and chapters            programs                 (ministries) and
reported?         programs                (ministries)                                     articles (programs)

Are estimates     Yes                     Yes                     Yes                      Yes
determined by     Finance approval        BMF (Austrian           TBS (Treasury            CA sets budget
the Finance       process for ministry    Ministry of Finance)    Board Secretariat)       totals
Ministry?         updates                 prepares estimates in   determines ARLU          Finance manages a
                                          consultation with       in consultation with     ‘trade-off’ system
                                          ministries              departments              within the totals

How often are     Three times a year:     Nominal ‘heading’       Annual                   Four times a year:


                                                                                                                25
forward year       - Budget              expenditure ceilings   Also, in-year update     Most important are
projections        - Midyear outlook     for four years:        of Economic and          Spring and Budget
updated?           - ERC consideration   revised only as        Fiscal Projections       Day
                                         necessary and          (Oct-Nov)                Independent Central
                                         require                                         Policy Bureau
                                         parliamentary                                   provides economic
                                         approval                                        parameters

Does the           Yes                   No                     Yes                      Yes
framework          Budget papers                                ARLU adjusts             Annual Budget
distinguish        disclose all new                             existing spending;       process identifies
existing and new   policy decisions                             Separate new             new spending
programs?          (referred to as                              initiatives process;     initiatives which can
                   ‘measures’, which                            Budget papers            only be funded from
                   are specific                                 report new               changes to existing
                   initiatives that                             initiatives separately   spend
                   contribute to
                   programs)




There is a high level of integration of the MTEF planning horizon with the annual budget
process. An indicative MTEF operates in Australia and Canada, so that the forward estimates
act as a rolling baseline for assessing the impact of spending decisions taken in the annual
budget process. In contrast a binding MTEF operates in Austria and the Netherlands, so that
an expenditure ceiling acts to limit new programs and oblige ministries to manage within
sectoral allocations.

There is a similar budget calendar used across all four jurisdictions that integrates the forward
estimates as either a planning instrument or a set of expenditure limits. The calendar
comprises distinct stages covering the issue of operational rules for the budget, preparatory
updating of the forward estimates, priority setting, submission of budget proposals by
spending ministries, review and decision by finance ministries and cabinets, and final
updating of the forward estimates. Refer to individual case studies in Part 7 for detailed
calendars.


3.3     Scope of forward estimates
This theme covers the following topics: (i) the timeframe of the MTEF, (ii) whether the
forward estimates are defined on a ‘no policy change’ basis, and (iii) the budget reporting
structure.

The MTEF planning horizon varies between jurisdictions, and is dependent on the type of
MTEF (that is, indicative or binding). In Australia the medium term is defined clearly as a
four year period, comprising the ‘budget’ year and three forward years; the forward estimates
                                                                                                           26
are prepared on a rolling basis such that the first year becomes the base year for next year’s
budget and another forward year is added to the estimates. In Canada, the Budget forward
estimates are presented externally on a two year basis, comprising the budget year and one
forward year; this contrasts with the estimates adjustment process – the Annual Reference
Level Update (ARLU) – that effectively provides for a three year estimates period (that is, the
budget year and two outyears). In both Austria and the Netherlands, where the forward
estimates are intended as binding ceilings, the medium term aligns with government
formation, and is defined as four years, with a fifth ‘extrapolation’ year to effect rolling
baselines. In all jurisdictions, however, by the last year of the electoral cycle the forward
estimates reach well into the next electoral cycle and are designed to serve as an ongoing
basis for fiscal planning.

The forward estimates are largely prepared on a ‘no policy change’ basis – that is, laws,
policies, behavioural and economic assumptions in the baseline program cost calculation
remain in place – but treat existing and new programs quite differently. In Australia and
Canada, the forward years exclude spending decisions based on new policy; at the same time,
the Australian forward estimates process takes into account forecast changes in non-
economic parameters (like the number of beneficiaries for an entitlement program). In both
cases, at various stages of the formulation process for the next year’s budget process the
forward estimates are adjusted – or ‘escalated’ – to reflect updated forecasts in price levels, or
changes in the forecast uptake of demand driven items, and over the course of the budget
process the impact of new spending decisions are incorporated in the estimates in a
‘scorecard’ fashion. In contrast, the forward years within both the Austrian and Netherlands
MTEFs are intended as expenditure ceilings and deal with policy adjustments differently. In
Austria, the forward year expenditure ceilings have two components: a fixed nominal element
(applying to 75% of the budget) and a variable element (applying to the remaining 25%) that
relates to statutory income transfer payments. In the Netherlands forward year expenditure
ceilings are set in ‘real’ terms. In both cases, new programs must be accommodated within
ministry ceilings, and in Austria modifications to the overall ceilings can only be approved by
the Parliament.

All four jurisdictions report the budget forward estimates using some form of programmatic
structure which covers all expenditure in the annual budget. The program structure, the
definition of programs, the level of disaggregation and the degree of standardisation all vary
significantly. In Australia, the budget is reported on the basis of ministerial ‘portfolios’ and

                                                                                               27
departmental ‘programs’: in 2013 there were 21 portfolios and approximately 300
programs.15 In Canada, the estimates are presented on the basis of ‘types of expenditure (e.g.
operating or capital)’, ‘organisations’ and ‘strategic outcomes and programs’: in 2013 there
were 135 organisations and approximately 450 programs. In Austria, the budget structure
comprises ‘headings’ (equivalent to policy sectors) and ‘chapters’ (equivalent to ministries or
smaller units): in 2013 there were five headings and about 30 chapters. In the Netherlands,
the budget estimates are organised around ‘chapters’ and ‘articles’: in 2013 there were 21
chapters and around 130 articles. More detailed discussion of program structure is set out in
Part 4; jurisdictional practices are explained in the individual case studies in Part 7.


3.4      Elements of the forward estimates
This theme covers the process for estimates approval, the frequency of updates for forward
year estimates and the extent to which the framework distinguishes existing and new
programs.

The forward estimates are prepared and maintained by the finance ministry in each
jurisdiction, although there are important differences in the institutional arrangements for
setting parameters for forward year projections and establishing aggregate ceilings. These
will be discussed in more detail in Parts 4 and 5, and they are only précised here. In Australia,
the Department of Finance is responsible for maintaining the forward estimates and manages
a central approval process for updating ministry level estimates throughout the budget
process. In Canada, the Treasury Board Secretariat manages the forward estimates through a
technical adjustment process – the ARLU – in consultation with departments and agencies. In
both countries, parameter changes to forward year projections are determined by the finance
ministries. By way of contrast, whilst in Austria and the Netherlands the forward estimates
are maintained by the respective Ministries of Finance, in both countries estimates
construction at the commencement of a term of government, and subsequent adjustment,
must be based on parameter changes provided by statutorily independent advisory bodies.16
In addition, because aggregate expenditure ceilings are determined by the government – in
the case of the Netherlands through the Coalition Agreement – the role of finance ministries
is increasingly directed at managing a ‘trade off’ system’ within the ceilings.

15
   In Australia, a ‘portfolio’ corresponds with the functional responsibilities of a Cabinet Minister and comprises
two or more entities (departments or agencies), and a ‘program’ is the budget reporting structure that each ent ity
uses to group activities and related expenditure. Both concepts are defined in more detail in Part 4.
16
   Noting that in Austria these arrangements apply only to the variable component of expenditure ceilings.

                                                                                                                28
The frequency of updates also varies between jurisdictions and, as noted above, their source
is dependent on the prevailing institutional settings. For example, in Australia the forward
estimates are updated three times during the budget year: at the commencement of the budget
process following the midyear economic and financial outlook reporting process, in
preparation for cabinet-level review of new spending proposals, and as part of finalisation of
the budget for parliamentary consideration. A similar update frequency is the case in the
Netherlands, although parameter changes, as noted, are provided by the independent Central
Policy Bureau. An annual update is the norm in Canada, through the technical ARLU
process, with adjustments being made three times per year through supplementary estimate
processes. In Austria, nominal expenditure ceilings are used for sectoral allocations, and
these are only revised as necessary by Parliament (and supported by a government
explanation of changes to planning assumptions).

As noted earlier, the distinction between existing and new programs is more explicit in some
frameworks than others. For example, in Australia and Canada, the annual budget process
clearly distinguishes consideration of proposed new policy (or savings) from the baseline of
continuing program expenditure extrapolated within the forward estimates. Further, in both
countries the Budget estimates, as presented to the parliament, disclose all new policy
decisions. In both Austria and the Netherlands, ministries can manage overspends or
underspends within expenditure ceilings by reallocating spending between ‘programs’;
however, in the Netherlands neither windfalls nor overruns can be applied to new policy
measures, which can only be approved by the cabinet in the context of the Coalition
Agreement.




                                                                                           29
4. MTEF program costing frameworks, practices and methods


This part will describe the common and exceptional features of MTEF program costing
practices across the four survey jurisdictions in three thematic areas:
     the requirements and guidance for program specification (including the definition of
        program structures and whether the finance ministry issues mandatory program
        specification guidelines)
     the requirements and guidance for program costing (including the purpose of program
        costing information and whether the finance ministry issues mandatory program
        costing guidelines)
     the methodologies and coverage of program costing (including the specific
        methodologies covered by guidelines, their treatment of direct and indirect costs, their
        application across new and existing programs, and their application within cash and
        accrual budgeting environments).



4.1    Introduction
This part reports the distinguishing characteristics of program costing frameworks, practices
and methods for MTEFs operating across the four survey jurisdictions. The purpose is to
isolate the key themes arising from the individual case studies and to help differentiate
mandated arrangements to guide spending ministry costing of programs and more specific
mandated provisions to guide MTEF budget and forward year cost estimate practices. The
method is to compare and contrast program specification and costing practices using the
survey questions, and to identify instructive examples of costing methods and their
application. Table 4.1 sets out the program costing practices in summary form. It must be
noted that program specification and costing guidelines were not available in the cases of
Austria and the Netherlands.


4.2    Requirements and guidance for program specification
This theme covers the requirements and guidance for program specification, including the
definition of program structures and whether the finance ministry issues mandatory program
specification guidelines.

As previously noted, all jurisdictions use a programmatic structure for presenting the budget
estimates. However, the specification of programs and their level of disaggregation (i.e. the
levels of the program structure) and the standardisation with which ministries report


                                                                                              30
programs vary significantly. Of the four jurisdictions only Australia and Canada appear to
issue formal policies on program budget reporting.

The Australian programs policy is mandatory. All central general government (budget
dependent) sector entities are required to budget, measure performance and report on an
‘outcomes and programs’ basis. Budget reporting in Australia comprises three levels:
ministerial portfolios (of which there are 21), entities (departments and agencies, of which
there are 111) and programs (of which there are approximately 300). Each entity is required
to report budgeted expenses and performance using an ‘outcomes statement’ that specifies the
intended high level outcomes for the entity and the ‘programs’ (activities) that contribute to
achievement of those outcomes. For each ministerial portfolio, detailed information about
programs and budget allocations for relevant entities are grouped together in a Portfolio
Budget Statement (PBS).

A program is the minimum level of reporting required for budget documentation, and is
recorded in both the estimates information management system – the Central Budget
Management System (CBMS) – and the PBS; program data must be consistent between
CBMS and PBS. The program guidelines stipulate four fundamental criteria for specifying
programs:

      programs must be activities or groups of activities that contribute to the intended
       results of each outcome statement
      programs must be ongoing in nature (minimum duration of 5 years)
      programs must be material in size of annual expenditure (greater than $50m-$100m)
       to ensure the program list is ‘manageable and relevant to whole-of-government
       program analysis and budgeting’
      programs must map to a single Government Financial Statistic (GFS) sub-function
       and single government outcomes statement.

It should be noted, however, that in the Australian case ‘programs’ defined for CBMS and
PBS reporting may not necessarily map either to the organisational structure of entities or the
preferred approach of entities to internally managing and reporting financial and non-
financial program performance (which is to say that entities tend only to comply with the
minimum requirement to use program structures for external budget reporting).




                                                                                            31
The Australian Department of Finance manages the ‘Commonwealth Program List’ to ensure
the accuracy, materiality and consistency of information disclosed in budget programs,
including a central approvals process for modifying the program list.

Table 4.1 Comparative MTEF Program Costing Practices: Summary of Responses

                   Australia               Austria               Canada                   The Netherlands

Does the finance   Yes                     No                    Yes                      Not specified
ministry issue     Programs Policy and                           Policy on
program            Approvals Process                             Management,
guidelines? Are    Mandatory                                     Resources and
they                                                             Results Structures
mandatory?                                                       (PMRRS) and
                                                                 Program Alignment
                                                                 Architecture (PAA)
                                                                 Not mandatory

Is a program       Yes                     No                    Yes                      Yes
defined? Does      Guidance for the        Budget is organised   PMRSS and PAA            Accountable
the finance        Preparation of          on ‘chapter’ basis,                            Budgeting Reform:
ministry issue     Portfolio Budget        with each chapter                              Budget is organised
program            Statements (annually)   specifying up to 5                             on ‘chapter’ basis,
specification                              outcomes                                       with each chapter
guidelines?                                                                               comprising ‘policy’
                                                                                          and ‘non policy’
                                                                                          articles

What is the        To assess financial     To provide            Determined by            Not specified
purpose of         impact of proposed      ‘implicit’ support    ‘purpose’:
costing            policy                  for the outcome       - cost recovery
information?       - Assess the            oriented impact       - make-or-buy
                   reasonableness of       assessment process    decisions     - level-
                   estimates                                     of-service decisions
                   - Assess consistency                          - cost-benefit
                   of costs with policy                          decisions       -
                   objectives                                    costing of a new
                   - Assess direct flow-                         initiative
                   on impacts to other                           (incremental
                   areas of expenditure                          funding)

Does the finance   Yes                     No                    Yes                      Not specified
ministry issue     Not mandatory but                             Guide to Costing
guidelines on      ‘conventional costing                         (2008) Not
program            template’ must be                             mandatory
costing? Are       used for staffing and                         TBS Submission
they               ‘on-costs’ (such as                           Guide mandatory
mandatory?         pensions and other                            (for submission of
                   benefits)                                     new spending
                                                                 initiatives)

What               Differentiated for:     Not specified         Range of methods         Not specified
methodologies      - Departmental Items                          - Causal
do costing         (conventional costing                         relationships
guidelines         template [Cost =                              - Cost pools
cover?             Quantity x Price] +                           - Standard costs and
                   wage index)                                   fixed percentages
                   - Administered Items

                                                                                                          32
                   (policy assumptions,
                   key cost drivers, large
                   model methods –
                   covers direct
                   behavioural effects
                   only)

How do             Not specified             Not specified      General guidance      Not specified
program costing    Note that new policy                         on allocating
guidelines treat   proposals for capital                        indirect costs,
indirect costs /   works require a                              especially use of
fixed (capital)    ‘whole-of-life’ cost-                        ‘cost pools’
costs?             benefit analysis (see
                   Part 5)

Do program         New spending only (       Not specified      New spending only     Not specified
costing            new programs or                              (TBS Submission
guidelines cover   changes to existing                          for new initiatives
all programs or    programs)                                    or spending outside
new programs                                                    the agency’s
only?                                                           reference levels

Accrual or cash    Accrual                   Accrual and cash   Accrual and cash      Accrual and cash
budgeting
(revenues and
expenditures)?




The equivalent Canadian programs policy is also mandatory. It establishes a common
government-wide approach to specifying programs and to ensure consistency in the
collection, management and reporting of financial and non-financial information. The policy
requires each department or agency to develop a ‘program alignment architecture’ (PAA) to
explain how it allocates and manages resources. The program guidelines stipulate five key
criteria for specifying program architecture:

       programs should identify and group related activities and link them logically to the
        strategic outcomes they support
       the architecture should link planned resource allocations to each program at all levels
        and against which financial results can be reported
       the architecture should link performance measures to each program at all levels and
        for which actual results are reported
       the architecture should structure the Estimates (detailed departmental spending plan)
        presentation and parliamentary reporting




                                                                                                         33
         the architecture should serve as a common basis for informing resource allocation by
          Parliament, the Treasury Board and departmental management (noting that approval
          is still on the basis of ‘type of expenditure’, such as operating and capital).

As in Australia, the Treasury Board Secretariat approves each department’s PAA and must
also approve any changes.

As noted earlier, both Austria and the Netherlands have budget program structures but neither
are defined in the same way. In Austria, ‘headings’ and ‘chapters’ disaggregate on the basis
of policy sectors and ministries, with budget statements further broken down into ‘global
budgets’ comprising categories of activities. In the Netherlands, ‘chapters’ and ‘articles’
disaggregate on the basis of ministries and policy programs; there are about 130 articles, with
each article on average accounting for about €1bn. However, as Table 4.1 indicates, in the
cases of both Austria and the Netherlands, program guidelines are not available.


4.3       Requirements and guidance for program costing
This theme covers the requirements and guidance for program costing, including the purpose
of program costing information and whether the finance ministry issues mandatory program
costing guidelines.

As Table 4.1 shows, costing guidelines are issued only in Australia and Canada. In addition,
it was only in these two jurisdictions that finance ministries articulated clear purposes for
costing information in the budget process. The common denominator is the need to cost
proposed new spending. In Australia, the ‘forward estimates’ budget process requires the
costing of ‘New Policy Proposals’ (NPPs) to assess the financial impact of a proposed
government policy on the Budget balance, to enable the Government to agree the resourcing
of agencies and to inform future reviews of programs. In addition, the costing process enables
the Department of Finance to assess the costs of NPPs presented by agencies to:

         determine and agree the cost is reasonable and robust estimate
         ensure consistency of the costing with the stated policy objective
         assess the potential direct flow-on impacts to other areas of government expenditure.

In Canada, the objectives of costing are broader, and defined more or less depending on the
users and the decision: ‘costing is done for the purpose intended’. Cost estimates are required
for new policy or program proposals that are presented to Cabinet for consideration, and

                                                                                              34
more refined cost estimates are developed for submissions considered by Treasury Board (a
statutory cabinet committee).

The Australian Department of Finance issues a ‘standardized costing model’ for use by all
departments and agencies in calculating departmental funding for new policy proposals
(NPPs).   These are also reflected in the protocols relating to the costing of election
commitments – Charter of Budget Honesty: Policy Costing Guidelines – issued jointly by the
Department of Finance and the Treasury. The aim of the costing model is to provide a
consistent approach to the calculation of salary and other marginal costs related to NPPs,
such as office accommodation. The costing model is not mandatory for all programs,
although departments and agencies are expected to use the standard approach for specified
categories of ‘departmental expenses’, especially staffing costs (methodologies are discussed
in more detail below). In effect, this means that only new spending being considered in the
budget process requires costing.

Program costing guidelines in Canada are set out in two documents. The first of these is the
Guide to Costing issued by the Treasury Board Secretariat (2008). Whilst the Guide is not
mandatory, it emphasises that ‘costing is done for the purpose intended’ and therefore that
specific costing exercises should be formulated by utilising methodologies from the Guide to
suit the particular needs of that costing exercise. For example, it identifies a range of common
cost applications for departmental program management purposes – including cost recovery,
make-or-buy and level-of-service decisions – which are intended principally to support how
services are most effectively funded and delivered. However, the Guide also specifies how
cost information is intended to inform the Budget process in two ways:

      it is ‘recommended’ as the costing approach to determine costs at each level of the
       program alignment architecture, i.e. programs and sub-programs
      it should be ‘drawn upon’ as the costing approach to determine the direct and indirect
       costs of all new initiatives (known as ‘incremental funding’) prepared as Treasury
       Board submissions.

The second set of guidelines relate specifically to the preparation of Treasury Board
Submissions. These are ministerial policy submissions seeking approval from the Treasury
Board to fund new initiatives that are not included in a department’s expenditure reference
levels (forward estimates). They provide details on program design, specific costs, expected
results and outcomes, and program delivery and implementation.
                                                                                             35
4.4     Methodologies and coverage of program costing
This theme covers the methodologies and coverage of program costing, including the specific
methodologies covered by guidelines, their treatment of direct and indirect costs, their
application across new and existing programs, and their application within cash and accrual
budgeting environments. 17

The costing guidelines in Australia and Canada, whilst mandatory in their application to new
budget proposals, set out a range of methods and practices to standardize approaches. Key
practices and examples from will be highlighted in the following discussion.

In Australia the costing of new policy proposals (NPPs) is expected to cover four elements:
understanding the policy, costing departmental items, costing administered items and costing
capital and ICT items. In addressing these elements the costing exercise must cover all direct
costs in delivering an initiative as well as direct flow-on effects to other government
programs (for example, a proposal to expand childhood vaccination services may also result
in increased expenses in medical reimbursement costs). The four elements are set out in the
costing process map in Exhibit 2.




17
  As they apply to the costing of budget proposals, it should be noted that costing guidelines in both
jurisdictions provide meagre coverage of methods for allocating indirect costs, such as common pool costs.

                                                                                                             36
Exhibit 2. Costing Process Map – Australian Department of Finance18,19




The first element is understanding the policy. This requires agencies to set out policy
descriptions that explain the intent of the policy (including the target groups and outputs) and
the main components that need to be costed, i.e. the most significant cost drivers. The second
and third elements relate to the two categories of appropriations within the Australian budget
framework: departmental items (a department’s operating expenses) and administered items


18
  Source: Australian Department of Finance and Deregulation 2013.
19
  Notes for Exhibit 2. Explanation of abbreviations: RPAT (Risk Potential Assessment Tool); FMG (Financial
Management Guidance); AMPS (Asset Management and Parliamentary Services); AGMIO (Australian
Government Information Management Office). The RPAT risk assessment supports the Cabinet submission
process and determines the need for capital funding proposals to be subject to either a full business case, a
gateway review as additional external assurance, or a ‘two -stage’ capital works approval process seeking
approval and funds prior to full business case preparation. The ‘efficiency dividend’ is an annual reduction in
departmental operating budgets in anticipation of efficiencies being found.

                                                                                                              37
(the program expenses that a department administers on behalf of government). The
‘standardised costing model’ is applied to departmental expenses for NPPs. This is to provide
‘reasonable funding for salary and other marginal costs’ based on standard salary rates
updated to incorporate the latest public sector remuneration surveys and inflation indexation
of other on-costs. The costing of administered items, which relate principally to activities
governed by eligibility rules established by the parliament, is expected to isolate
implementation assumptions, for example about target group behaviour to estimate volume
projections. These are also discussed in more detail in Part 5.

The costing process for departmental expenses generally apply the ‘Cost = Input Quantity x
Input Price’ principle. The total cost is determined by breaking down a policy costing into
cost elements (e.g. salaries, materials etc.), conducting a price-based and quantity-based
analysis of each element, and summing the cost subtotals to calculate an overall cost estimate.
This approach is also accompanied by a number of conventions:

      costings should be calculated on a current price basis
      costings should be prepared in accrual and cash terms (so that both the impact on the
       fiscal balance and underlying cash balance are calculated)
      costings should take account of direct behavioural responses (or first round effects)
       but will generally not incorporate second round effects
      the assumptions used in costings (for example, the numbers of people making use of a
       particular rebate) should be transparent and, to maintain consistency, assumptions
       used in one policy costing will generally be used again for costing similar policies.

Exhibit 3 provides an example conventional costing process for a fictitious airport passenger
screening policy.




                                                                                               38
Exhibit 3. Example costing methodology for a New Policy Proposal – Australian Department of Finance


    Costing of a proposal to introduce a new screening process for passengers and checked baggage in
    Australian airports.

    Step 1. Determine the number of airports affected that do not have the security screening procedures in
    place.

    Step 2. Estimate the price and installation costs of each piece of equipment required to implement the
    screening (for example, Explosive Detection System Capable X-ray machines (checked baggage),
    Explosive Trace Detection machines, Walkthrough Metal Detectors (passengers), X-ray machines
    (passengers’ carry-on baggage) and other items, including hand wands, divest tables, tensa barriers, etc.).

    Step 3. Assess the costs of operating the equipment. These would include costs associated with
    communicating new procedures to travellers (which will vary depending on the type of communication –
    such as printed flyers, posters, language cards, and so on – multiplied by the cost and the quantity required),
    the cost of employees with the technical expertise to assist the airports in implementing this form of
    screening (this would be based on the number and type of employees required, their pay rates and the length
    of time required), consultative forums between the administering agency and the affected airports (this
    would include travel and meeting expenses such as flights and venue hire), as well as the cost of ongoing
    audit and compliance activities (this would be calculated on the estimated number of officers, their pay
    rates, the number of visits and the length of time required to undertake these activities).

    Step 4. Construct the total cost estimate from the two components, that is, the equipment together with the
    program delivery costs for the Department.

    It should also be noted that a costing may also consider the most cost-effective way of achieving the policy
    objective; this could examine options such as whether it is more cost-effective to hire rather than purchase
    the equipment or to use consultants or departmental officers for some or all of the activities.

    Source: Commonwealth of Australia 2012, 24.




Similar to the Australian approach, the Canadian Guide to Costing is based on commonly
accepted management accounting practices and sets out a generic costing process that is
intended to be used for all costing exercises:

       Cost purpose – what purpose will the cost information be used for?
       Cost object – what is being costed, such as an activity, output or service?
       Cost base – which costs are relevant to the purpose and object?
       Cost classification – what are the relevant direct and indirect costs?
       Cost assignment – what are the most appropriate and cost-effective methodologies to
        assign costs to the cost objects?
       Calculate, validate and confirm – apply the methodologies, validate the calculations
        and assumptions and confirm consistency with the cost purpose.




                                                                                                                  39
The Guide emphasises that ‘costing is done for the purpose intended’ and therefore that
specific costing exercises should be formulated by utilising methodologies to suit the
particular needs of that costing exercise. For example, it identifies a range of common cost
applications for departmental program management purposes – including cost recovery,
make-or-buy and level-of-service decisions – which are intended principally to support how
services are most effectively funded and delivered.

As discussed earlier, the Guide is intended to support the costing of new budget initiatives
through the Treasury Board Submission process. These submissions are required to set out
details on program design, relevant direct and indirect costs, expected results and outcomes,
and program delivery and implementation. In particular, the submission should identify all
costs by category, their phasing over the budget and forward years, the total cost of the
proposed initiative and, where relevant, the source of funds.

The guidelines for preparing Treasury Board Submissions provide an instructive illustration
of how cost information can be presented for Budget submissions. In particular, the
guidelines require the use of a standard ‘Cost, Funding Requirements and Source of Funds
Table’ to accompany Budget submissions with cost impacts (Treasury Board Secretariat
2014). 20 Exhibit 4 is the template for this standard table, Exhibit 5 provides a worked
example for a fictitious organization ‘Initiatives Canada’, and Exhibit 6 outlines the range of
costs that should normally be considered in constructing cost schedules.

Calculated on a cash accounting basis, Exhibits 4 and 5 illustrate how at the organizational
level total costs are itemised by vote, input factor (such as ‘personnel’ or ‘operating and
maintenance’), accommodation costs and other statutory items. (If the submission seeks to
acquire capital assets and/or land through new funding, a separate table is required to present
the accrual information: see discussion below). Total costs are estimated for the five year
fiscal forecast period. Importantly, the standard table also obliges submissions to calculate the
‘funding requirement’ on a net basis, taking into account existing funding sources and
transfers. In this respect it should be noted that the table captures cost and funding
information in three separate sections: ‘New Funding’, ‘Existing Funding’ and ‘Transfers’.



20
   The Treasury Board Submission Guidance was revised in April 2014, and the costing guidelines are available
at the Treasury Board Secretariat of Canada website: http://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/tbs-pct/dgw-ddir/dgw-ddir-
eng.asp#Toc370738882. The template for the ‘Cost, Funding Requirements and Source of Funds Table’ is
available for download as an Excel spreadsheet at the same location.

                                                                                                           40
Lastly, as a side note it should be noted that although desired, accrual accounting and
budgeting is not a prerequisite for producing cost information. Of the countries surveyed,
only Australia has full accrual accounting and budgeting practices in place. Austria has
accrual accounting and budgeting, except for public service pensions, while Canada has
implemented only accrual accounting. The Netherlands, by its turn, has neither accrual
accounting nor budgeting.

Exhibit 4. Budgetary costing presentation for budget and forward years


                 Cost, Funding Requirements and Source of Funds Table by Estimates Vote Structure
                                                                Fiscal Year – Dollars
                                                                                                       Ongoin
                                       2013–14    2014–15    2015–16    2016–17     2017–18    Total
                                                                                                         g
                            New Funding (including adjustments to vote-netted revenue)
                      [Provide breakdown by organization, vote and input factor, as applicable.]
     Vote [insert operating vote number] – Operating Expenditures and Employment Benefit Plans (EBPs)
     Personnel
     Other operating costs
     EBPs @ 20%
     Total Vote [insert operating
     vote number] and EBPs
     Vote [insert capital vote number] – Capital Expenditures and EBPs
     Personnel
     Other
     EBPs @ 20%
     Total Vote [insert capital vote
     number] and EBPs
     Vote [insert grants and contributions vote number] – Grants and Contributions
     Grants
     Contributions
     Total Vote [insert grants and
     contributions vote number]
     Total Votes
     PWGSC accommodation
     premium @ 13%
     Other statutory items
     Adjustments to Vote-Netted Revenue
     [Provide a breakdown by input factor as applicable]
     Personnel
     Other operating costs
     EBPs @ 20%
     Vote-netted revenue
     (excluding EBPs)
     Total (equal to EBP amount,


                                                                                                                41
      if any)
      Total New Funding
                                                Existing Funding
       [Provide a breakdown by organization, vote and input factor, as applicable. Use the same format as the
                                            “New Funding? section.]
      Total Existing Funding
                                                     Transfers
      Sending Organization [Provide breakdown by vote and input factor. Use same format as the “New
      Funding? section.]
      Subtotal
      Receiving Organization [Provide breakdown by vote and input factor. Use same format as the “New
      Funding? section.]
      Subtotal
      Total Transfers (must equal
      zero)
                 Grand Total


Source: Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat 2014



Exhibit 5. Worked example of budgetary costing presentation for budget and forward years




Source: Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat 2014




                                                                                                                42
Exhibit 6. Checklist of possible costs

Salary and related costs    Salaries, wages, shift premiums, overtime allowances, acting pay, reclassifications, bilingual
                            bonuses, relocation, leave, employee benefit plan (pension and insurance) payments
Accommodation costs         Accommodation charges for government owned or leased properties
Other operating             Travel, conferences, freight, postage, training, contracted personal and professional services,
                            communications, information and telecommunications systems, computing hardware and
                            software, furniture, office supplies, internal professional services such as legal counsel,
                            auditors, corporate services such as library and mail room
Capital                     Acquisition of land, construction of buildings, engineering structures and works, car fleets,
                            ships and planes, and major alterations, repairs or renovations to extend the life of these assets
GST                         Whilst not charged to a department’s operating budget, the GST (and state sales tax
                            harmonization payments) must be estimated and shown separately in proposals seeking new
                            funding
Transfer payments           Estimates of money, goods, services or assets that are transferred from an appropriation to
                            individuals, organizations or other levels of government, including conditional transfer
                            payments such as grants
Source: Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat 2007, 63-4.



In the specific case of capital asset projects, the Treasury Board Submission template also
requires that project costing over the forward years account for the total cost of projects, that
is, the estimated operating expenses of acquiring and maintaining an asset. While the
appropriations are based on a ‘near-cash’ basis, the Canadian budget process requires capital
proposals to include accrual information where the resources are incremental (i.e. not
included in the department’s reference levels) and the cash and accrual profiles are materially
different. For ‘cash’ appropriations, the full purchase price or development cost of an asset is
charged to an appropriation in the year of expenditure. Under full accrual, the costs of
developing or acquiring the asset are allocated to the periods over which the asset will be
used through amortization. Exhibit 7 illustrates a costing process for the annual accrual
expenses of a capital asset acquisition proposal.




                                                                                                                           43
Exhibit 7. Example method for calculating annual accrual expense for capital proposals


Step 1. Cost – Determine the sum of all costs required to make a capital asset operational
     In the case of acquisition, this can include the purchase price, transportation costs, legal fees,
         installation costs
     In the case of developed or constructed assets, this includes direct material and labour costs, as well as
         overhead costs directly attributable to the construction or development activity.

Step 2. Amortization (depreciation) Period – Determine the useful life of the asset
     Useful life is the estimate of either the period over which a tangible capital asset is expected to be used
         or the number of production or similar units that can be obtained from the tangible capital asset. The
         estimate of useful life should take into account such factors as expected future usage, effects of
         technological obsolescence, expected wear and tear from use or the passage of time, the maintenance
         program, studies of similar items retired, and the condition of existing comparable items.
     Since the estimate of the life of an asset is extended into the future, it becomes increasingly difficult to
         identify a reasonable basis for estimating the useful life. As a result, the maximum amortization period
         of tangible capital assets other than land is restricted to 40 years except where the federal organization
         can demonstrate clearly that a longer useful life is expected. Some complex network assets such as
         water or sewer systems likely have useful lives in excess of 40 years. Indicating a longer useful life for
         such assets may thus be justified.

Step 3. Amortization Expense – Allocate the cost of the asset over its useful life
     The federal government generally uses straight-line amortization, where the cost of the asset is divided
         evenly by the number of years of useful life to determine the annual amortization expense.
     This amount plus operating costs for the year will be the annual accrual expense.
     This amount will be recorded in each year of the asset’s useful life, starting when the asset is put into
         use. Since amortization is recorded monthly, annual amortization may be reduced in the first and last
         years of the asset’s useful life.

Source: Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat 2007, 66-67.




                                                                                                                 44
5. MTEF budget and forward year cost estimates practices


This part will describe the common and exceptional features of MTEF budget and forward
year cost estimates practices across the four survey jurisdictions in two thematic areas:
    application of costing guidelines over the budget and forward years (including the
       treatment of certain program types, such as capital programs)
    application of costing approaches as part of forecasting methodologies (including the
       treatment of entitlement programs, the application of non-economic parameters (e.g.
       escalation factors such as labour and non-labour deflators, demographic and
       behavioural assumptions etc.) and ‘parameter changes’ (e.g. variations to an economic
       parameters)).



5.1    Introduction
This part reports the distinguishing characteristics of MTEF budget and forward years cost
estimates practices operating across the four survey jurisdictions. The purpose is to isolate the
key themes arising from the individual case studies and to help differentiate the application of
costing guidelines for specified types of programs, relevant variations in their application in
the budget and forward years, and the application of costing approaches in the context of
forecasting methodologies. The method is to compare and contrast costing and forecasting
methodologies practices using the survey questions, and to identify instructive examples of
costing methods and their application. Table 5.1 sets out the costing and forecasting practices
in summary form. Again, it must be noted that information on costing and forecasting
methodologies was generally not available in the cases of Austria and the Netherlands.


5.2    Application of costing guidelines over the budget and forward years
This theme covers the requirements and guidance for application of costing guidelines over
the budget and forward years of the MTEF, including any distinction between capital and
recurrent proposals.

All four jurisdictions have an MTEF that makes use of rolling estimates. The key distinction
is between Australia and Canada (which utilise ‘indicative’ estimates) and Austria and the
Netherlands (which operate expenditure ‘ceilings’). As we have already seen, in the former
the forward estimates comprise baseline projections of the ‘cost’ of existing programs and the
purpose of the annual budget process is to ensure that incremental budget decisions are


                                                                                              45
explained in terms of their impact on the forward estimates: once the budget is finalised, the
estimates are ‘rolled over’ so that the first forward year becomes the st arting budget
allocation for the following years’ process and a new outer year is added. In the latter two
countries, the forward years represent expenditure ceilings – in the case of the Netherlands
inflation adjusted ceilings – within which ministries are expected to manage through
redeployment and carryovers. In Austria and the Netherlands, the annual budget process is
organised around reprioritisation for new initiatives, such that any adjustments to the ceilings
require parliamentary approval, and the use of ‘rolling estimates’ relates primarily to the final
‘extrapolation’ year, which is added annually.

As we have seen, formal costing guidelines are issued in Australia and Canada. In both
countries, costing estimates are mandatory only for the preparation of new spending
proposals in the Budget process, and are required to be provided for the current budget year
and the forward years. In Australia, budget decisions on new policy – what are known as
‘measures’ – generally apply below the program level, meaning they normally constitute sub-
program activities that contribute to a program. Estimates are generally updated on a program
basis, prepared by departments who enter changes into the Central Budget Management
System (CBMS), and then reviewed and validated by the Department of Finance.
Adjustments must reflect:

      government decisions or measures since the previous estimates update
      approved movement of funds (changes of estimates between years without any overall
       increase in program costs)
      parameter updates (changes in economic parameters or program specific parameters,
       such as the number of people eligible for a conditional transfer payment); and
       up-to-date departmental and administered program estimates for all years.

However, the Department of Finance advised that, once approved, ‘measures’ taken in the
annual budget process are typically consolidated within the baseline of existing programs and
are not routinely subject to further separate monitoring and review.

In Canada, the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat uses the Annual Reference Level
Update (ARLU) process to set the expenditure baseline for existing non-statutory programs
(the direct program spending component of the fiscal plan reflected in the annual budget).
Most expenditure reference levels are set in nominal terms on a three year rolling basis and


                                                                                              46
departments are expected to generate efficiency gains to offset any unexpected cost
increases). Projections in the internal ARLU update are presented over a five year period,
whilst the fiscal projections presented in the budget are identified over a rolling two year
planning horizon. The ARLU process is a technical exercise that updates the reference levels
– it is not intended to consider past performance and the results of programs – and nor is it a
mechanism for departments to request new funding. Systematic review of the effectiveness of
ongoing programs has only been implemented in the last decade or so.

Table 5.1 MTEF Budget and Forward Year Cost Estimate Practices: Summary of Responses

                    Australia                Austria                  Canada                 The Netherlands

Is the MTEF         Yes                      Yes                      Yes                    Yes
‘rolling’?          t + 1 becomes            4 year budget            t + 1 becomes          4 year budget
                    starting point for       ceiling                  starting point for     ceiling
                    budget, new t + 3        New MTEF has t +         budget, new t + 2      New MTEF has t +
                    added                    4 added, with t + 3      added                  4 added, with t + 3
                                             as starting point                               as starting point
Are there           Yes                      No                       Yes                    No data
central             Standardized             RIA (Regulatory          Costing Guide and
guidelines for      Costing Model for        Impact Assessment)       Guide to Preparing
program             New Policy               new proposals but        Treasury Board
costings for        Proposals                not cost specific        Submissions
budget
proposals?                                   Proposals are not        ‘New Initiative’
What is the basis   Program and/or           ‘program’ based but
for proposals,      ‘measure’ (initiative    law or project based
i.e. program,       related to a
sectoral etc.       program)
Is there a          Yes                      No distinction           Yes                    No data
distinction         Separate                 between capital and      No data
between             appropriations NPPs      recurrent
recurrent and       identify recurrent
capital? Do the     and capital
latter estimate     separately
recurrent costs     Capital proposals
of capital          estimate ‘whole-of-
expenditure?        life’ costs

Do guidelines       No                       Yes                      No                     No data
treat entitlement   Entitlement              MTEF distinguishes       ‘Statutory’ programs
programs            programs specified       ‘nominal’ fixed
differently?        by separate              ceiling (75%) and
                    legislation – ‘special   ‘variable’ ceiling
                    appropriations’          (25%) for
                                             entitlement activities

Are there           No                       No                       No                     No data
separate            Standardised costing     RIA is required for      Standardised costing
guidelines          methods that apply       all new laws and         methods that apply
estimating          to budget and            projects; however,       to budget and
program costs       forward years            ‘not directly linked     forward years
over the budget                              to MTEF or the
and forward                                  annual budget’


                                                                                                               47
years? Is this
applied by
centre, agencies
or both?

What are the        Construction rules       Not elaborated       No data     No data
key components      (‘no policy change’      Economic forecasts
of the              basis)                   provided by
forecasting         Treasury Economic        independent body
methodologies       Forecasts (e.g.          (WIFO)
- economic          annual growth) are
parameters          forecasts for budget
- estimate          year and outyear 1
construction        (cyclical variation in
rules (‘no policy   economic activity)
change’)            and projections for
- cost escalation   outyears 2 and 3
factors             long term averages)

Do forecasting      Yes                      No                   No data     No data
methodologies       Budget measures –        RIA requirements
differentiate       new or changed           apply to new
between policy      policy                   spending only
and parameter       Parameter changes –
changes?            variations to
                    economic
                    parameters




As we have noted, new policy initiatives are dealt with in a separate process. When funding is
required outside the reference levels, departments will request inclusion of the additional
funding in the Estimates through a Treasury Board Submission. These include submissions
for funding new programs that Cabinet has already approved, or that seek additional funding
for existing programs. Any adjustments are then included in the next eligible supply period
and updates to reference levels are included in the next eligible ARLU exercise.            The
Estimates documents distinguish between new and existing policies, with new policies being
highlighted.

Forecasts of expenditures with existing statutory authority are developed for inclusion with
the ARLU process and presentation in the Main Estimates and the Reports on Plans and
Priorities (RPPs). The forecasts are based on the most recent demographic, economic and/or
demand information. Significant changes in forecasts during a fiscal year may be presented in
Supplementary Estimates

One final issue is the extent to which recurrent and capital expenditure is distinguished in the
MTEF budget formulation process, and whether this is reflected in requirements to identify


                                                                                             48
the recurrent cost implications of capital budget proposals. To some extent this is often a
function of the ‘dual budgeting’ structure of legal appropriations; in Australia, for example,
there is a constitutional requirement to present appropriations separately as ‘recurrent’ and
‘capital’, whereas in Austria there is no such requirement in basic budget laws. In principle,
however, it is preferable to ensure that consideration of capital proposals (including the
recurrent costs of operating and maintaining assets) is integrated with a single annual budget
formulation process.

The most instructive example of integrated capital budgeting comes from Australia. As in
many other advanced economies, the Australian MTEF budget process contains a ‘gateway’
review process for major projects, with a focus on major information and communication
technology (ICT) capital procurement (Australian Government Information Management
Office 2012). The process focuses on the strengthening of business case preparation for large
or complex ICT proposals considered as new policy within the annual budget process. In
particular, the business case review process is designed to ensure that the costs of new capital
expenditure are fully developed prior to requesting funding. For instance, proposed ICT
capital projects should reflect a ‘preferred option’ based on a cost-benefit analysis that
accounts for ‘whole-of-life’ costs associated with using and maintaining the asset (such as
depreciation) and the operational expenses (such as staffing) projected to be required over the
forward estimates period. This process is set out in Exhibit 2 (above).


5.3    Application of costing approaches as part of forecasting methodologies
This theme covers requirements and practices for forecasting methodologies including the
treatment of entitlement programs, the application of non-economic parameters (e.g.
escalation factors such as labour and non-labour deflators, demographic and behavioural
assumptions etc.) and ‘parameter changes’ (e.g. variations to an economic parameter or
agency operating environment) in costing over the forward estimates period.

The application of costing methods and forecasting methodologies for estimates construction
is not an area of practice well supported by open source official documentation. Further, only
in Australia and Canada were finance ministries in a position to provide information detailing
such approaches, and even then at a high level. Again, Australia provides the most instructive
illustration of how non-economic parameters should be applied in constructing and
maintaining forward estimates with an MTEF. The role of economic parameter changes is


                                                                                             49
more settled across the four survey countries, but is characterised by very different
institutional arrangements for sourcing and assessing forecasting assumptions.

In Australia, there are three aspects of ‘conventional costing methods’ that are important for
constructing and maintaining the forward estimates in Australia’s MTEF: behavioural
assumptions for program and policy costings; the treatment of direct and indirect effects; and
the use of the contingency reserve as ‘smoothing’ provision in the forward years (see
generally, Commonwealth of Australia 2012).

Within the MTEF budget process, policy costings for ‘new measures’ are expected to explain
and account for the impact of a change in policy on the behaviour of target groups (the
Department of Finance uses the example of a new taxation concession that advantages one
activity over another and therefore intended to move resources towards the concessional
activity). This type of analysis, however, relies on knowledge about the intended logic of
policy interventions and the level of confidence in anticipating behavioural change. Often,
reliable information on these types of policy change effects are often unavailable, and while
behavioural responses can be informed by previous policy experience, academic studies, or
modelling, such estimates require the exercise of significant professional judgment. As a
consequence, costings documentation should always require clear explication of what
behavioural assumptions are used and the confidence intervals applied (including one of no
behavioural change due to lack of information).

A related issue is that costings should only take into account the direct behavioural effects of
a policy change, and not indirect (or ‘second-round’) effects. Direct effects can include, for
example, changes in the price of goods and services, or their demand and supply, affected by
a policy change produced by moving resources between activities affected by the policy
change. In Australia, for example, indirect effects are not included in costings because of the
uncertainty associated with estimating the scale and timing of the effects and, because they
are also likely to occur over a longer timeframe, they often may not occur within the forward
estimates period.

A final practice of interest in estimates construction is what is referred to as the Contingency
Reserve (CR). This is an aggregate provision within the forward estimates to reflect
anticipated events that cannot be assigned to individual programs at the time budget estimates
are prepared. It is not a general policy reserve, as the allowances are not appropriated. For our
purposes, the most important component of the CR is the conservative bias allowance (CBA)

                                                                                              50
– set as a percentage of total central general government sector expenses – which recognises
the tendency for estimates of existing programs to be revised upwards over time. The CBA is
particularly important for demand driven programs where accurate cost estimates can be
problematic. The CBA is reduced for earlier forward estimate years as program estimates are
progressively updated, thereby decreasing the bias. These adjustments do not realise actual
budgetary savings, nor offset spending measures: in other words, the CBA is a device to
improve the accuracy of the forward estimates.

Economic and fiscal parameter forecasting obviously play a central role in framing revenue
and expenditure projections for budget formulation within an MTEF. The most important of
these are assumptions and projections relating to average economic growth rates, rates of
employment and unemployment, rates of general and specific price inflation. Each of the
surveyed jurisdictions have distinctive institutional arrangements for economic forecasting
that help to characterise the role of economic forecasting inputs to costing exercises and
hence estimates construction.

In Australia and Canada, economic ministries other than the finance ministry have lead
responsibility for economic forecasting: the Treasury in the former, and the Department of
Finance in the latter. However, both institutions have adopted different approaches to
obtaining and assessing data inputs and assumptions. In Australia, data is sourced from the
Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS), and only supplemented by data from business and
consumer survey data. The Treasury uses in-house econometric models to construct forecasts
which are subject to review by the Joint Economic Forecasting Group, comprising
representatives from key economic and policy departments within the Australian government.
By comparison, the Canadian Department of Finance forecasts by surveying a group of
private sector forecasters each quarter to ascertain average annual private sector forecasts of
real GDP growth, inflation, labour market indicators, and interest and exchange rates. The
Canadian Department of Finance is noted for the ‘prudence’ it builds into its approach to
fiscal forecasts: its forecasting conventions tend to ensure that where revenue forecast ranges
are provided the lower limit is routinely adopted, and that revenue numbers are always
rounded down.

The institutional arrangements for economic forecasting in Austria and the Netherlands are a
stark contrast. In Austria, the standard economic parameters used to inform the MTEF and
budget forecasts, as well as the impact assessment process for proposed new spending, are

                                                                                            51
sourced from an independent statutory body, the Austrian Institute for Economic Research
(WIFO). Similarly, in the Netherlands the Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis
(CPB) provides independent economic forecasts that are required to be used when preparing
MTEF expenditure ceilings; in addition, CPB has a convention-based role in assessing the
fiscal consequences (i.e. costs) of competing parties’ policy platforms. Both arrangements are
designed to ensure that economic and fiscal forecasting is perceived as transparent and
independent of executive government influence.




                                                                                           52
6. Costing for MTEF: key practice themes


This part will:
    survey key practice themes from the country case study analysis
    describe any convergence and divergence in effective cost practices for MTEF
    describe strengths and weaknesses of cost practice reform strategies.



6.1    Introduction and general observations
The aim of this project was to survey institutional and procedural arrangements governing
MTEFs and the role that ‘bottom up’ costing practices play within those frameworks across a
selection of OECD countries. The survey describes practices and, where available, provides
examples of current practice. The survey was based on three primary data collection methods:
a questionnaire issued to the national finance ministries of Australia, Austria, Canada and the
Netherlands; follow-up interviews with relevant finance ministry officials in all jurisdictions
(except the Netherlands); and document review of publicly available policy and instructional
material sourced from those jurisdictions. This descriptive data is set out and summarised in
the preceding three thematic chapters.

This concluding chapter will set out some provisional observations on the way costing
practices support these MTEF systems. The observations remain provisional because the data
sets to which the remarks relate remain incomplete. Having said this, follow-up interviews
with finance ministry officials did confirm that the limited scope of practices described by
finance ministries in their questionnaire response are an accurate reflection of developing
practice areas in their budget and costing systems.

A general remark is that the claimed gap in the technical literature on MTEFs and costing
does exist, and reflects an uneven understanding of the relationship in practice. In certain
contexts the links are strong (for example, the costing of new program spending and – in
certain jurisdictions – of election commitments within multiyear frameworks) but in others
the disconnects are even stronger (for instance, fiscal projections based on historical budgeted
expenditure levels, little or no expectations about the costing of existing programs outside of
special review exercises, and the apparent variability of costing conventions for the forward
years). This means that the MTEFs, being principally a mechanism for aggregate fiscal


                                                                                             53
discipline, continue to emphasise the role of costing in terms of ‘strategic incrementalism’:
the notion that marginal spending is approved with more strategic knowledge of its fiscal
impact in the forward years. Based on the case studies, there is therefore some support for the
proposition that MTEFs in advanced economies continue to operate as ‘top-down’
expenditure estimates (or allocations) based largely on historical budgeted expenditure levels
rather than the idealized systematic ‘bottom-up’ costing of both existing and new programs.
The following sections set out more specific observations.


6.2       The role of ‘bottom up’ costing depends on the ‘type’ of MTEF
As noted earlier, and as the case studies confirm, whilst there is no ‘typical’ MTEF most
variations do contain both ‘top-down’ and ‘bottom-up’ components and there is also some
evidence of a prevailing view that strategic elements of fiscal forecasting and budget
processes should exclude spending ministries (also discussed below). In principle, an MTEF
has greatest technical efficacy when it constructs estimates based on spending ministry
informed costing of programs, rather than finance ministry extrapolation of historical funding
levels. (Both orientations can, of course, be distinguished from ‘bottom-up’ costing as a type
of annual ‘zero-based’ budgeting exercise, which is plainly beyond what is administratively
feasible for any finance ministry). This in turn is dependent on:

         how budget programs are defined, and at what level of disaggregation
         with what level of disaggregation the forward estimates are reported
         the extent to which expenditure ceilings are ‘hard’ and actual program costs are
          related to the budgeted ceilings (i.e. the focus is aggregate control).

For example, the case material suggests that the focus on costing is stronger in Australia
where a rolling MTEF operates with budget and forward year estimates applying at the
equivalent of program level and – in comparative terms – highly specified program
structures. By way of contrast, the ‘binding’ multiyear expenditure ceilings operating in
Austria and the Netherlands categorise spending at relatively high sectoral and ministry levels
and place a premium on spending ministries reprioritising resources within the ceiling.




                                                                                            54
6.3   The focus of costing and cost information is new programs or expanded existing
programs
Where they are specified, costing practices are generally expected to be used across the entire
budget in case study countries, but in practice the focus is overwhelmingly on new spending
on new programs or expanded existing programs. This too appears to be a function of the
type of MTEF and the level of integration with the annual budget cycle. In both Australia and
Canada, the respective MTEF budget processes are framed around the increment and the
emphasis of conventional costing is on ‘new policy proposals’ for review during the annual
budget cycle: in Australia the ‘no policy change’ basis for the forward estimates installs a
clear separation between ‘policy’ and ‘parameter’ changes, and in Canada automatic updates
of ‘reference levels’ means the focus of the estimates budget process is on new spending
outside of those reference levels. In both countries the concentration on new spending means
that ‘bottom-up’ costing is not routine for the base (except of course where ‘reprioritisation’
review initiatives are conducted, for example, increasingly on a systematic basis in Canada).
In Austria and the Netherlands, ‘hard’ expenditure ceilings for multiyear periods mean that
new spending is understood in terms of reallocation of existing program spend. In Austria
this appears to be reinforced by the location of high level ‘costing’ tools within the regulatory
impact assessment process which, whilst designated as a ‘gateway’ for assessing newly
reallocated spending initiatives, is (according to the BMF) directly and technically linked
neither to the MTEF nor the annual budget process. Further, in both Austria and the
Netherlands variations to the ceilings (and hence ‘new’ spending outside these limits)
requires parliamentary approval and are by design very strict in their application.


6.4    Capacity to define existing and new policy is important
By definition, all of the MTEF case studies consider ‘new policy’ within the annual budget
cycle. However, because they have rolling MTEFs, Australia and to a lesser degree Canada
place greater emphasis on distinguishing the base and new programs (although in practice
approved budget measures are quickly subsumed into the base, and in Australia especially,
with little or no subsequent review). In part this is reflected in the elaborated requirements for
specifying programs and sub-programs: the ‘outcomes and programs’ structure in Australia
and the ‘program alignment architecture’ in Canada (noting also that budget program
structure in the Netherlands is being refined under the most recent ‘accountable budgeting’ or
VBTB reforms). In addition, both Australia and Canada – and in prospect Austria and the
Netherlands – promote close integration between program budget structure and spending

                                                                                               55
ministry budget and program management, with the expectation that spending ministries will
produce and utilise cost information for both purposes. Highly aggregated budget categories
– and highly decentralised ministry financial stewardship responsibilities – in both Austria
and the Netherlands appear to place less emphasis on the role of bottom-up costing of
programs than simply with managing within fixed ceilings.


6.5    The analytical distinction between conventional costing practices and forecasting
practices is instructive
Implicitly in all case study jurisdictions, conventional costing of programs and activities is
framed as a spending agency responsibility requiring specialist technical capabilities.
However, for the specific purpose of the MTEF, conventional costing is framed by estimates
forecasting methodologies and the assumptions about how costings are to be projected into
future years. In Australia and Canada expenditure forecasting methods include both general
forecasting methods (for example, deflators for labour and non-labour costs, average labour
costs etc.) and differential methods that are more likely to apply to certain categories of
program activities (for instance, caseload adjustments, or forecasting for entitlements
governed by legislated criteria). The interaction between conventional costing and forecasting
methods, and the nature and defensibility of assumptions about unit cost, demand and
behavioural change means that costing is an inexact science, and highly contestable. In
Austria and the Netherlands the role of ‘independent’ fiscal forecasters is an important point
of difference. In these countries, economic parameter adjustments and in some cases program
cost assumptions are determined externally – for example, in the Netherlands, fiscal costing
exercises of party manifestos during elections – which means that the role of finance
ministries is weighted towards enforcing the multiyear expenditure ceilings rather than
challenging the merit of new policy and the reasonableness of associated costings.


6.6  Cost information (for new policy) is mandated, but costing methods are only
recommended
This is commonly the case, and for entirely defensible reasons. Finance ministries in both
Australia and Canada issue cost templates for presenting program cost information within the
annual Budget cycle (and more generally in support of Cabinet consideration of new policy)
but the basis of costing – the methods selected and the assumptions used – are often left to the
discretion of spending ministries. The Canadian case is a good illustration. There,
comprehensive and detailed cost guidelines are framed in terms of ‘costing for purpose’,

                                                                                             56
meaning the application of cost methods, the object of costing and the assumptions
underpinning cost assignment should be specific to the costing exercise. In these
circumstances, costing is effectively a menu of techniques whose application in the context of
budget and forward year estimates is negotiated rather than directed. It should also not go
unnoticed that because costing is in effect contingency-based, it makes it difficult, were it an
objective, to compare common cost objects across government activities in a systematic way.
Having said this, comparisons within programs and departments are still possible.




                                                                                             57
7. Case study institutional summaries



Case 1. Australia


The Australian federal government was the first advanced economy to implement what came
to be seen as the basic infrastructure for a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF)
(World Bank 2013, 10). The MTEF system comprises two key components: the forward
estimates system, and the Cabinet budget committee system (the following discussion draws
on Blondal et.al. 2008).

The forward estimates system

The forward estimates system evolved during the early-to-mid 1980s and took its current
form in 1987 when one year budget estimates were replaced with rolling baseline projections
of government revenues and expenditures for the budget year and three forward years on a
‘no policy change’ basis, where:

      ‘rolling baseline projections’ means that once the budget is passed, the first year of
       the forward estimates becomes the base year for next year’s budget, and another
       forward year is added to the estimates (refer Figure 2.1, above), and
      ‘no policy change’ means that existing program expenditure is assumed to be constant
       to explain the basis for any variations (see below).

The forward estimates comprise the cost projections of all existing programs and does not
allow for the introduction of new spending (new programs or expanded existing programs);
the purpose of the annual budget process is to make sure that incremental budget decisions
are ‘strategic’ in terms of their impact on the forward estimates. This means that each year’s
budget reconciles the budget year with the first outyear of the previous year’s forward
estimates and explains variations as either:

      new policy decisions, i.e. new programs or expansion of existing programs
      changes in non-economic parameters, i.e. number of beneficiaries for an entitlement
       program



                                                                                           58
      adjustments to economic parameters, i.e. price deflators or economic growth
       forecasts.

The forward estimates are published twice a year: in the Budget as part of the Mid-Year
Economic and Fiscal Outlook (MYEFO) (required by the Charter of Budget Honesty Act
1998, also see below).

The forward estimates are managed actively by the Department of Finance (the finance
ministry, see below) during the budget year to ensure that the impact of new policy decisions
and parameter changes are incorporated. Spending ministries prepare initial costings of new
spending initiatives and the role of Finance is to validate the accuracy and reasonableness of
the costing. The Department of Finance determines the methodology for ongoing costing of
programs (discussed in Part 5).

The Cabinet budget committee system

The Cabinet budget committee system too has evolved over time but in essence has
comprised two standing committees of senior ministers, chaired either by the Prime Minister
or the Minister of Finance, whose roles are to set and enforce strategic fiscal objectives.
These committees include a Strategic Budget Committee, which sets budget and policy
objectives, as well as overall targets for expenditure reductions at the start of the annual
budget process, and the Expenditure Review Committee (ERC), which has an ongoing
operational role during the process to determine new spending and offset savings, monitor in-
year budget compliance and conduct a program of spending reviews to inform future budget
processes.

The Cabinet committees are supported by three central agencies who work closely together
but which have distinct and complementary roles in the budget process:

      The Department of Finance and Deregulation (Finance) which coordinates the
       expenditure side of the budget and manages the budget framework. Its main role is to
       maintain the forward estimates, review government expenditure and propose
       reallocations. Finance is the chief advisor to the ERC.
      The Treasury which coordinates the revenue side of the budget. Its main role during
       the budget process is to advise on taxation measures as well as the ‘structural
       adjustment’ impact on the economy of existing and proposed expenditure.


                                                                                           59
       The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet which coordinates the Cabinet
        procedures supporting the budget process and, as chief advisor to the Prime Minister,
        has a principal role in setting the policy agenda framing the annual budget process.

Australia: MTEF and Budget calendar (fiscal year 1 July to 30 June)


September-          Finance issues budget circular on budget process and timetable, and operational rules for
October             budget submissions etc., Prime Minister invites portfolio Ministers to submit new spending
                    proposals.


November-           Pre-budget ERC sets priorities for coming budget and considers portfolio ministers’
December            proposals and likely pressures on agency budgets – forward estimates (baselines) are
                    updated by MYEFO


January-February    Agencies submit portfolio budget submissions for new policy and savings options based on
                    outcomes of pre-budget ERC and ‘trilateral’ review of submissions – forward estimates
                    (baselines) updated for ERC process


March               ERC meets to determine agency submissions to recommend for funding to Budget
                    Committee


April               Budget Committee endorses ERC recommendations and finalises Budget – forward
                    estimates (baselines) updated for final Budget


May                 Budget (Appropriation Bills) presented to Parliament




None of these institutional arrangements have a legal basis. However, the Charter of Budget
Honesty Act 1998 does provide a principles-based legal framework for the setting of fiscal
objectives and the reporting of fiscal performance, and this incorporates the policy practices
of the forward estimates system. In particular the Act requires governments to publish a
‘Fiscal Strategy Statement’ as part of the annual budget documentation that:

       specifies long term fiscal objectives and the fiscal measures against which fiscal
        policy will be assessed, e.g. maintain budget balance over the medium term
       specifies for the budget year and the three forward years the government’s fiscal
        targets and the expected outcomes for the fiscal measures
       explains how the fiscal objectives relate to the Act’s principles of sound fiscal
        management.



                                                                                                           60
The Australian fiscal framework is noteworthy because it is largely ‘principles-based’ rather
than ‘rules-based’, i.e. it does not mandate fiscal targets but rather leaves the interpretation of
fiscal principles – and ultimately their justification – to the government of the day.

Budget program structures and guidelines

In Australia, all general government sector entities are required to budget, measure
performance and report on an ‘outcomes and programs’ basis. The ‘outcomes statement’
defines the purpose of appropriations, and the Portfolio Budget Statements set out programs
in more detail.

A program is defined in the Programs Policy and Approval Process as: ‘Programs deliver
benefits, services or transfer payments to individuals, industry/business or the community as
a whole and are primary vehicles for government agencies to achieve the intended results of
their outcome statements’ (Australian Department of Finance and Deregulation 2009). The
Department of Finance issues guidelines that contain four key criteria for specifying
programs:

      activities or groups of activities that contribute to the intended results
      must be ongoing in nature (minimum 5 years)
      material in size of annual expenditure ( greater than $50m)
      must map to a single GFS sub-function and single government outcomes statement.

A program is the minimum level of reporting required for budget documentation, and is
recorded in both the Central Budget Management System (CBMS) and the Portfolio Budget
Statements (PBS) – program data must be consistent between CBMS and PBS.




                                                                                                61
Case 2. Austria


The Austrian federal government is a relatively late mover in implementing a MTEF, and its
current reforms are still in progress. Until the mid-1990s budgeting was ‘very traditional,
cash-based, highly legalistic and input-oriented’ and initial forays into strategic budget
reform, which included top-down budgeting and the piloting of new forms of budget
flexibility, were quite tentative (Steger 2010, 2).

It was only in 2004 that the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance (BMF) commenced the
development and negotiation of fundamental reform of budget systems. A comprehensive
package, comprising a medium term expenditure framework, global budgets, performance
budgeting, accrual reporting, and financial management incentive mechanisms, is currently
being implemented in two stages (BMF 2010; BMF 2011a; Steger 2010).

Stage 1 of budget reform

Stage 1 of budget reform commenced in 2009 and is based on amendments to the
constitution. BMF’s strategy was to shepherd reform implementation by entrenching new
budget principles and a timetable for their completion (by 2012) in the constitution (Steger
2010, 6-8). Following a protracted multi-party policy development process, in 2007
Parliament unanimously passed two reform bills – one to amend the constitution and a second
detailed reform bill. Amendments to the constitution (Article 51 of the Constitution) focused
on ‘budgeting principles’, replacing traditional budget principles of economy and regularity
with four ‘outcomes-oriented’ principles – outcomes, efficiency, transparency and ‘true and
fair view’ – to commence in 2013. The detailed reform bill (the Federal Organic Budget Law
2009) introduced both a MTEF and budget flexibility for spending ministries.

The MTEF contains legally binding expenditure ceilings for headings four years in advance
on a rolling basis (i.e. t+4 is added annually). The MTEF budget structure comprises
‘headings’ (which are equivalent to policy sectors) and ‘chapters’ (which are equivalent to
ministries or smaller units), although budget chapters are used to structure the annual budget
law. Budget chapters are binding for the budget year. There are currently five headings, each
of which is a group of chapters; and each chapter is assigned to a specific ministry. For
example, the ‘law and security’ heading groups six chapters that align with the ministries of
justice, interior, defence, foreign affairs, finance and chancellery.

                                                                                           62
The MTEF distinguishes two different expenditure ceilings:

      a nominal fixed ceiling (denominated in €) that applies to about 75% of expenditure
      a variable ceiling that applies to expenditure related to the business cycle, that cannot
       be estimated accurately in advance and is determined by defined parameters, e.g.
       eligibility criteria for unemployment benefits and social service payments.

The MTEF forward year projections are not prepared on a ‘no policy change’ basis: the ‘no
policy change’ assumptions are used only for a 30 year long run fiscal projection that is
prepared separately. (However, as discussed, the MTEF does distinguish between fixed and
variable ceilings, so the variable component permits flexibility). In addition, the forward year
projections do not distinguish between ‘existing’ and ‘new’ programs.

The MTEF only sets out aggregate budget authorisations, i.e. expenditure ceilings for
headings and chapters. These can only be changed by the parliament by amending the MTEF
laws, in which case the government must explain why the planning assumptions for the
budget need to change. The first MTEF for the years 2009-2013 was approved by the
parliament in 2009, and has only been revised on average once a year.

The MTEF applies a budget reform principle of ‘Every minister his/ her own finance
minister’. It permits the BMF to enforce binding expenditure ceilings and it provides
‘carryover’ incentives for spending ministries to be efficient: if ministries save money within
the expenditure ceilings they can retain funds for use in later years, even for different
purposes (Steger 2010, 8-9). The MTEF also sets ceilings for the highest permissible
personnel capacity for each line ministry (BMF 2011a).

Stage 2 of budget reform

Stage 2 of budget reform (the Federal Organic Budget Act 2009) commenced at the start of
2013 and is in progress. These changes are designed to support resource management within
the new MTEF and include:

      rationalisation of appropriation lines within chapters from over 1000 to less than 100
       ‘global budgets’ that will mean that ministries’ detailed budgets are indicative rather
       than binding, and that ministries have flexibility to redeploy funds within their global
       budget



                                                                                             63
      budgeting as part of a performance model where (a) the MTEF budget strategy sets
       out outcomes for ministries and the strategies to achieve them in the four year period
       (b) the annual budget bill sets out outcomes and performance information for each
       budget chapter that are part of the budget authorisation, and (c) the global budget
       within chapters set out outputs and performance information that are part of the
       budget authorisation.

Program costing guidelines and practices

In Austria costing information must be included in all explanations to laws presented to
Parliament as well as major projects: according to the BMF it is ‘not only used implicitly for
the MTEF, but also for the long term impact and other impacts on public budgets’.

As part of the second stage of budget reform, the Federal Organic Budget Act 2013 (Articles
17 and 18) provides for ‘outcome oriented impact assessment’. This is supported by an
automated Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) process tool that is designed to identify the
impact dimensions of outcomes and outputs early in the legislative process. The RIA process
tool is web-enabled and the home portal refers to ‘calculators’, although it is not clear
whether these are costing calculators (www.wfa.gv.at/English_start.htm). The accompanying
Regulatory Impact Assessment Guideline (BFM 2012c) sets out how the RIA process informs
the preparation of outcome and output statements in support of the annual budget cycle;
however cost information and its production are not described as a principal requirement. The
RIA guidelines apply only to new spending or projects.

The Austrian MTEF sets out ‘hard’ expenditure ceilings for the budget year and the following
three years. When the new MTEF is prepared, the year t + 4 is added and the year t + 3 is the
starting point for new year t + 4. Revised economic forecasts or new government decisions
might also vary the existing MTEF for years t + 1 to t+ 3, but any changes to expenditure
ceilings require parliamentary approval.

Budget proposals are not prepared on a program basis, but rather the highly aggregated
‘heading’ and ‘chapter’ structure for expenditure, i.e. the sectoral and ministry structure.
Within the MTEF ‘trade-off’ arrangements, individual Ministries have the responsibility to
fund their activities within the budget ceilings. Similarly, there is no distinction between
recurrent and capital costs in budget proposals – line ministries must fund activities
(including capital projects) within the MTEF ceilings. According to the BMF, no costing

                                                                                           64
information is necessary for the budget proposal ‘as the budget is based on internal BMF
calculations and/or proposals coming from the line ministries, which are validated by the
BMF’.

All new projects are subject to the ‘outcome oriented impact assessment’ process (BMF
2012) ‘which includes information about medium- and long-term costs’. According to the
BMF, ‘[t]hey are anyhow not directly linked to the MTEF or the annual budget as line
ministries have the full responsibility for their individual budgets’.

The ‘outcome oriented impact assessment’ process uses standardized economic parameters as
the basis for MTEF and budget forecasts – these are sourced from an independent body, the
Austrian Institute for Economic Research (WIFO). However, the impact assessment process
applies only to new spending proposed in the budget.

The BMF advised that forecasting methodologies do not differentiate between policy changes
and parameter changes except to note that (a) annual budget process considers new spending
only and (b) variable ceiling component of the MTEF does acknowledge changes linked to
pre-defined program parameters.

The BMF advised that whilst there are no explicit allowances for cost contingencies, MTEF
ceilings are in part ‘variable’ (i.e. the component relating to entitlement program funding).




                                                                                                65
Case 3. Canada

The Canadian federal government does not have a discrete process for a MTEF. Instead,
several separate but interrelated processes are used within the Expenditure Management
System (EMS), the framework for developing and implementing the government’s spending
plans and priorities within the limits established by the Budget. A new EMS was
implemented in June 2007. It is the most recent iteration of strategic budget reform in
Canada, which can be traced back to the Policy and Expenditure Management System
(PEMS) multi-year envelop budget process of the of the early 1980s (Good and Lindquist
2010, 96-105).

The new EMS comprises four interrelated processes:

      the Budget process
      multiyear planning for individual organizations
      the program alignment architecture and stronger focus on program results
      spending reviews.

The budget process

The Federal Budget sets out policy objectives as well as macroeconomic and fiscal targets
and projections. The ‘Budget’ is tabled by the Minister of Finance and is the government’s
overall fiscal plan, including new policy initiatives.

Following the Federal Budget, organizations prepare submissions to the Treasury Board of
Canada for review and challenge by the Secretariat and approval by the Board. Treasury
Board approves these detailed resource allocation plans for initiatives previously approved by
Cabinet or included in the federal budget.

Once Treasury Board approval is granted, information on planned expenditures is presented
to Parliament through tabling of Estimates publications and the introduction of the supply
bills which, once passed into legislation, become appropriation acts. The ‘Estimates’ are
tabled by the President of the Treasury Board and are the detailed plans for government
expenditure, by department and agency.

The Estimates comprise three components:


                                                                                           66
         Part I – Government Expenditure Plan (provides an overview of planned expenditures
          detailed in Part II and changes in expenditures from previous fiscal years as well as
          information on major statutory transfer payments and public debt charges)
         Part II – Main Estimates (detailed plans for both statutory expenditures and
          expenditures that are voted for coming fiscal year, by department, but may not include
          funding for new policy announced in the Budget which require Treasury Board and
          parliamentary approval, which would normally be sought in Supplementary
          Estimates)
         Part III – Reports on Plans and Priorities (RPPs) which set out expenditure plans,
          priorities, objectives and performance measures for each appropriated department
          over a three year time horizon. The corresponding Departmental Performance Reports
          (DPRs) are produced 18 months later and describe performance in relation to planned
          expenditure and results in the RPPs (Muhleisen, Danninger, Hauner, Krajnyak and
          Sutton 2005, 13-14).

The first year of the RPP document supplements information contained in the Main
Estimates. The RPPs are tabled in Parliament and are used by parliamentarians in their
consideration of the Estimates.

Canada: MTEF and Budget calendar (fiscal year 1 April to 31 March)

June to            Cabinet priority-setting retreats, Fiscal framework updates (Department of Finance updates
September          economic parameters, Departments prepare and submit new policy submissions
September to       Cabinet committees review new policy initiatives, Finance issues Economic and Fiscal
November           Update, Treasury Board Secretariat updates operating costs through Annual Reference
                   Level Update
January            Cabinet reviews budget strategy
Early February     PM and Minister of Finance make final budget decisions
Late February      Minister of Finance introduces Budget, President of the Treasury Board introduces
                   Estimates, Standing Committees begin examination of Estimates
Late March         President of the Treasury Board introduces Reports on Plans and Priorities for each
                   department, Parliament grants Interim Supply to end-June
1 April            Fiscal year starts
Late May           Standing Committees report on the Estimates
Late June          Approval of Estimates




                                                                                                           67
Multi-year planning for individual organizations

The Annual Reference Level Update (ARLU) process puts together ongoing budget plans for
the non-statutory programs of individual spending agencies based on previous Treasury
Board approvals. The reference levels are, in effect, the forward estimates of expenditure
prepared on a three year rolling basis. Parliament, however, approves planned spending on an
annual basis.

In addition, forecasts of expenditures with existing statutory authority (i.e. already approved
by Parliament through specific legislation) are developed for inclusion in the Main Estimates
and RPPs. The forecasts are based on the most recent demographic, economic and/or demand
information. Significant changes in forecasts during a fiscal year may be presented in
Supplementary Estimates.

The forward year projections in the departmental RPPs include both the voted and statutory
amount according to an individual department’s program structure. Information on the same
program structure is shown in Main and Supplementary Estimates and Departmental
Performance Reports.

The Federal Budget announces new programs. Beginning in fiscal 2013-14, Supplementary
Estimates documents highlight funding for new initiatives identified in a Budget. Projections
made in the Federal Budget are updated later in the fiscal year, in the Update of Economic
and Fiscal Projections.

Program alignment architecture (Policy on Management, Resources and Results Structure)

Introduced in 2005 this policy ensures a common approach to collecting, managing and
reporting financial and non-financial information. The policy applies to all departments and
agencies and provides detailed information on all government programs. It links resources to
expected results, and establishes the same structure for both internal decision-making and
external accountability.

The key mechanism is the ‘program alignment architecture’ (PAA) which is a common
program structure based on a program logic methodology. The program hierarchy is linked to
strategic outcomes and has three levels: ‘program’, ‘sub-program’ and ‘sub-sub-programs’.
The ‘strategic outcomes’ and ‘program’ level activities are approved by the Treasury Board



                                                                                            68
and inventory of ‘sub-program’ and ‘sub-sub programs’ levels endorsed by the Treasury
Board Secretariat.

Key criteria for a PAA include that it:

        identifies and groups related activities and links them logically to the strategic
         outcomes they support
        links planned resource allocations to each program at all levels and against which
         financial results are reported
        links performance measures to each program at all levels and for which actual results
         are reported
        structures the Estimates display and parliamentary reporting
        serves as the basis for (informing) resource allocation by Parliament, the Treasury
         Board and departmental management.

Strategic and Spending Reviews

The Strategic Review and Strategic Operating Review processes seek to improve the value
for money of public spending, in addition to reinforcing fiscal discipline and strategic
prioritisation.   Under the new EMS, all federal departments and agencies that receive
appropriations are required to undertake a strategic review of all their direct program
spending and the operating costs of their major statutory programs on a cyclical (four year)
basis.

The reviews use the PAA as the framework for assessing the continuing need for a program,
the efficiency and effectiveness of activities, and management performance. Once
departments have completed a comprehensive review of all of their programs, they are
required to identify a total of 5 per cent of their program spending from their lowest-priority
and lowest-performing programs. These funds are proposed for reallocation to higher
priorities. Strategic reviews are done at the same time every year in order to put
recommendations forward for consideration as part of the annual budget planning process.
Savings achieved through strategic reviews are redirected to budget priorities. Strategic
review results are announced through the annual budget.

A cycle of strategic reviews were completed from 2007 to 2010, and in 2011 the Government
completed a Strategic and Operating Review. These reviews have yielded a range of positive


                                                                                            69
outcomes, including deliberate and informed decision-making, material reductions to
program spending, and an improved capacity to respond to changing fiscal imperatives.

The Treasury Board Secretariat is currently leading a series of improvements to strengthen
expenditure management and enhance the tools that are used to develop and implement the
government's spending plans. These measures will improve spending decisions and
strengthen the government’s capacity to contain costs. These improvements are focused on
three areas: new spending, existing spending, and the renewal of funding that is set to expire.

      New spending decisions will be based on more robust information by integrating
       more rigorous costing analysis and stronger contextual information into decision
       making. To this end, the Treasury Board Secretariat is requiring more stringent Chief
       Financial Officer Attestations, developing better costing tools and standards, and
       making more effective use of departmental financial systems; and strengthening the
       capacity to challenge costing information by creating a new Costing Centre of
       Expertise in the Office of the Comptroller General.
      The Treasury Board Secretariat is also instituting a cycle of ongoing, reviews of
       existing spending. These reviews will ensure that resources are directed to programs
       and activities that remain priorities of the government and achieve value for money
       for taxpayers. The focus and terms of these reviews will be customized from year-to-
       year to reflect the specific objectives and goals of each particular review
      Spending on initiatives set to expire, known as ‘sun-setting’ initiatives, will be
       examined closely by the Treasury Board on an annual basis to determine whether and
       on what basis the funding should be renewed.

The EMS is overseen by four key institutional actors:

      The Department of Finance ensures aggregate fiscal discipline. It maintains
       macroeconomic models that project revenues and expenditures (the fiscal framework),
       determines total spending levels and prepares the Federal Budget and Update of
       Economic and Fiscal Projections, both of which are delivered by the Minister of
       Finance.
      The Privy Council Office supports priority setting within the budget process. It
       advises the Prime Minister and Cabinet and manages the Cabinet system supporting
       the Budget process.


                                                                                             70
   The Treasury Board of Canada is a statutory committee of Cabinet established under
    the Financial Administration Act. It consists of six ministers, including the President
    of the Treasury Board (Chairperson) and the Minister of Finance, who meet regularly
    to consider submissions sponsored by federal organizations. The Treasury Board is
    responsible for preparing the government expenditure plan tabled annually in
    Parliament (Estimates) and for monitoring program spending in government
    departments and agencies.
   The Treasury Board is supported by the Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. The
    Secretariat is the expenditure manager. It advises the Treasury Board on effective
    allocation of expenditure and ensures operational efficiency. The Secretariat supports
    Treasury Board approval of operational plans, resource appropriation for new
    programs and determination of resourcing for existing programs, as well as
    monitoring compliance with management policies.




                                                                                        71
Case 4. The Netherlands

The Netherlands MTEF is not law-based, but implemented through coalition agreements for
government formation (The Netherlands Ministry of Finance 2013). Budget formulation
process in the Netherlands comprises two phases: first, when a new government takes power
and establishes its overall budgetary policy for its term of office, and second, the annual
budget process that translates the budgetary policy into operational terms for all government
activities (Blondel and Kristensen 2002). A new budget formulation process was adopted in
1994 following the report of the Study Group on the Budget Margin. In part the reforms were
a response to the fiscal management requirements for qualification to the European Monetary
Union.

Coalition Agreement

The first phase is the Coalition Agreement process. Government formation in the Netherlands
is dependent on party coalitions within the parliament. When a new government is created it
announces its major policy objectives in a document known as the Coalition Agreement. The
key elements of a Coalition Agreement include:

        apply for a government’s four year term of office
        fixed maximum caps for expenditure in each sector
        maximum caps are in real terms, based on cautious economic assumptions (to reduce
         the risk that the budget outturn being worse than expected) that are provided by an
         independent economic forecaster, the Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy
         Analysis (or Central Planning Bureau, CPB)
        sets out explicit rules for dealing with windfalls and shortfalls.

Budget process

The second phase is the annual budget formulation process, which is framed tightly by the
Coalition Agreement. In this context, ‘[t]he key role of the Minister of Finance and the
Ministry of Finance each year is to ensure that the Coalition Agreement’s budget rules are
adhered to’ (Blondel and Kristensen 2002, 48).




                                                                                          72
The Netherlands: MTEF and Budget calendar (fiscal year 1 January to 31 December)

November             Minister of Finance issues budget circular to Ministers on budget procedures
January-March        CPB provides economic parameter updates, Finance Ministry updates multi-year
                     expenditure projections, spending Ministries prepare policy expenditure proposals, bi-
                     lateral budget discussions
March                Spending Ministries submit Policy Letters to the Finance Ministry outlining new policy
                     expenditure proposals (these focus only on any changes from previous multi-year forecasts
                     for existing policy and on any new policy initiatives)
April                Cabinet (Council of Ministers) meets to decide the budget framework, Finance Ministry
                     issues Letters of Totals setting out the maximum level of expenditure for each ministry in
                     the coming year
May-July             Ministers submit preliminary draft budgets to the Ministry of Finance for review and
                     negotiation, Ministry of Finance prepares Budget Memorandum setting out fiscal policy
                     and economic forecasts
August               CPB provides revised economic parameters, and final expenditure budget decisions taken
September            Minister of Finance presents draft budget (a Budget Memorandum accompanied by 23
                     separate Budget bills) to Parliament
October              Parliament adopts budget (Budget Investigation Sessions are held by sectoral committees
                     but there is no overall scrutiny of the Budget totals)




The Dutch budget is divided into three separate ‘sectors: the core budget sector, the health
care sector and the labour market sector. The ‘core’ budget sector is the responsibility of a
number of ministers, with each minister responsible for his own budget. The Coalition
Agreement establishes separate caps for each of the three sectors, but also incorporates multi-
year expenditure projections for each ministry as the basis for sub-caps for each minister in
the ‘core’ sector.

The expenditure budget is a fixed real expenditure framework – total outlays are set for each
year of a government’s office term, including a maximum level of real expenditure for each
sector. The time frame is four years. The Government presents revised budget estimates for
the Coalition Agreement three times a year – Spring memorandum, budget memorandum and
autumn memorandum – and these are based on forecasts provided by the independent CPB.

Transfers are permitted between sectors, and between sub-caps within the core sector, but
surpluses in one area can only be used to fund existing policies that are experiencing higher
costs than projected, and the consent of Cabinet is required to finance new programs or


                                                                                                               73
expanded existing programs. If a budget overrun occurs it is the responsibility of the relevant
minister to manage it, usually reducing another part of his budget to finance the overrun.

Budget program structure

In the Netherlands, Budget program structures are determined by spending ministries within
the annual budget preparation phase, but are subject to both Ministry of Finance approval and
Council of Ministers (Cabinet) endorsement. The annual budget law is divided into chapters,
and each chapter is subdivided into budget articles called ‘policy articles’ which are the line
item level of authorisation (The Netherlands Ministry of Finance 2013; de Jong, van Beek
and Posthumus 2013).

The policy article is the unit (program level) for budget planning and reporting, and integrates
planned expenditure, performance planning and cost accounting. Each policy article has one
general objective and comprises three or four ‘sub-articles’ (the sub-program level) each with
operational objectives and performance indicators. There is also a second category of budget
article called ‘non-policy’ articles which are ‘in place for more technical reasons, such as
dividing residual overhead costs or to cover unforseen costs’ (The Netherlands Ministry of
Finance 2013; de Jong, van Beek and Posthumus 2013). In 2013 there were approximately 90
policy articles and 35 non policy articles.

Under the ‘Policy Budgets and Policy Accountability’ (VBTB) performance budget reforms
(1999-2012), parliament reduced its line-item input control of budgets for expanded output
and outcome information. This meant there was less detailed financial information provided
for policy articles, and during this period they only distinguished between direct and indirect
costs at the ‘sub-article’ level. Under VBTB for each ministry policy articles were reported
with two highly aggregated line items: program expenses and ministry ‘organizational
expenses’ (apportioned across policy articles). Under the current ‘Accountable Budgeting’
reforms (2013), major changes were made to budget reporting so that each ministry now
discloses separate ‘policy articles’ and a single ‘organisational expenses’ article. The policy
article reports program expenses (in terms of twelve categories of financial instruments, such
as subsidies, grants, purchases from private sector etc) and the organisational expenses article
is single non-policy article per ministry (covering policy making and policy execution costs
of each ministry) (see de Jong, van Beek and Posthumus 2013, 21-22; Netherlands Ministry
of Finance 2012, 3).



                                                                                             74
References and resources


General – Medium term expenditure frameworks and other

Allen, R. and Tommasi, D. Eds. 2001. Managing Public Expenditures: A Reference Book for
Transition Countries. Paris, OECD.

Dorotinsky, B. 2006. Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks: Concepts and Lessons. World
Bank Presentation, 2 May 2006.

Harris, J., R. Hughes, G. Ljungman and C. Sateriale. 2013. Medium-term budget frameworks in
advanced economies: Objectives, design and performance. In M. Cangiano, T. Curristine and M.
Lazare, Eds, Public Financial Management and Its Emerging Architecture. Washington DC,
International Monetary Fund, 137-173.

Lundback, E. J. 2008. Medium-Term Budgetary Frameworks: Lessons for Austria from
International Experience. IMF Working Paper 08/163, International Monetary Fund,
Washington, DC.

OECD. 2012. OECD International Database of Budget Practices and Procedures.
http://www.oecd.org/gov/budgeting

Overseas Development Institute. 2003. Implementing a Medium-Term Perspective to Budgeting
in the Context of National Poverty Reduction Strategies. Good Practice Guidance Note,
November. http://www.odi.org.uk/publications/1460-implementing-medium-term-perspective-
budgeting-context-national-poverty-reduction-strategies

Oxford Policy Management. 2009. A Suggestion for Making MTBF Reforms Simpler and More
Achievable. OPM Briefing Notes 2009-2. Oxford, Oxford Policy Management.

Painter, M. and Peters, B. Guy. Eds. 2010. Tradition and Public Administration. New York,
Palgrave Macmillan.

Robinson, M. 2013a. Aggregate expenditure ceilings and allocative flexibility. OECD Journal on
Budgeting, 12 (3), 1-19.

Robinson, M. 2013b. Program Classification for Performance-Based Budgeting: How to
Structure Budgets to Enable the Use of Evidence. The World Bank Independent Evaluation
Group Blue Booklet. Washington DC, The World Bank.


                                                                                            75
Schick, A. 2009. Budgeting for fiscal space. OECD Journal on Budgeting, 9 (2), 1-18.

World Bank. 1998. Public Expenditure Management Handbook. Washington DC, The World
Bank.

World Bank. 2006. Fiscal Policy For Growth and Development: An Interim Report. A report
prepared for the Joint Development Committee. Washington DC, The World Bank.

World Bank. 2013. Beyond the Annual Budget: Global Experiences with Medium Term
Expenditure Frameworks. Washington DC, The World Bank.




General – Costing and/or forecasting methodologies

Mikesell, J. 2011. Fiscal Administration, Eighth Edition. Boston, Cengage Learning.

New South Wales Treasury. 2007. Service Costing in General Government Sector Agencies.
TPP07-3. Sydney, New South Wales Treasury.
www.treasury.nsw.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0012/7410/tpp07-3.pdf

New Zealand Treasury. 1994. Improving Output Costing: Guidelines and Examples. Wellington,
The Treasury.

Robinson, M. 2007. Cost information. In M. Robinson, Ed, Performance Budgeting: Linking
Funding and Results. New York, Palgrave Macmillan and International Monetary Fund.

Vasche, J. D., B. Williams and R. Ingenito. 2008. Budget Forecasting for the State of California.
In J. Sun and T. D. Lynch. Eds. Government Budget Forecasting: Theory and Practice, CRC
Press, Boca Raton FL, 61-104.

Victoria Department of Treasury and Finance. 1997. Output Costing Guide. Melbourne,
Department of Treasury and Finance.




Case specific – Australia

Australian Department of Finance and Deregulation. 2008. Annual Report 2007-08. Canberra,
Department of Finance and Deregulation.




                                                                                                76
Australian Department of Finance and Deregulation. 2009. Commonwealth Programs Policy and
Approval Process. December. Canberra, Department of Finance and Deregulation.
www.finance.gov.au/financial-framework/financial-management-policy-
guidance/docs/Commonwealth-Programs-Policy-and-Approval-Process.pdf

Australian Department of Finance and Deregulation. 2012. Guidance for the Preparation of the
2012-13 Portfolio Budget Statements. www.finance.gov.au/budget/budget-
process/docs/Guidance_for_the_Preparations_of_the_2012-13_Portfolio_Budget_Statements.pdf

Australian Department of Finance and Deregulation. 2013. The Budget Process and New Policy
Proposals: Participant Guide. Financial Management and Budget Training Program – Part 2.
http://www.finance.gov.au/sites/default/files/FMB_Part_2_PG_The_Budget_Process_and_New_
Policy_Proposals.pdf

Australian Government Information Management Office. 2012. ICT Business Case Guide.
http://www.finance.gov.au/sites/default/files/wp-files/2012/04/ICT_Business_Case_Guide.pdf

Blondal, J. R., D. Bergvall, I. Hawkesworth, and R. Deighton-Smith. 2008. Budgeting in
Australia. OECD Journal on Budgeting, 8 (2), 1-64.

Commonwealth of Australia. 2012. Charter of Budget Honesty Policy Costing Guidelines:
Guidelines Issues Jointly by the Secretaries to The Treasury and The Department of Finance and
Deregulation 2012. www.finance.gov.au/publications/charter-of-budget-
honesty/docs/Charter_of_Budget_honesty_2012.pdf

Commonwealth of Australia. 2013. Pre-Election Economic and Fiscal Outlook 2013. A Report by
the Secretary to the Treasury and the Secretary to the Department of Finance and Deregulation .
www.treasury.gov.au/PublicationsAndMedia/Publications/2013/PEFO-2013

Hawke, L. and Wanna, J. 2010. Australia after budgetary reform: A lapsed pioneer or decorative
architect? In J. Wanna, L. Jensen and J. de Vries, Eds, The Reality of Budgetary Reform in OECD
Nations, Edward Elgar, 65-90.




                                                                                               77
Case specific – Austria

Blondal, J. R. and D. Bergvall. 2007. Budgeting in Austria. OECD Journal on Budgeting, 7 (3),
1-37.

BMF (Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance). 2010. The Austrian Federal Budget Reform: The
Budget Reform as a Transition to a New Budget World. Vienna, BMF.
http://english.bmf.gv.at/Budget/TheAustrianFederalB_523/HHRR_folder_E_ansicht1.pdf

BMF. 2011a. The Austrian Federal Budget Reform. Presentation, Vienna, February 2011.
http://english.bmf.gv.at/Budget/TheAustrianBudgetReform/Presentation/The_Austrian_Federal_
Budget_Reform.pdf

BMF. 2011b. Reforming Fiscal Frameworks: The Austrian Case. Presentation, Brussels,
November 2011. http://english.bmf.gv.at/Budget/TheAustrianBudgetReform/Presentation/2011-
11-16_Reforming_Fiscal_Frameworks_The_Austrian_case.pdf

BMF. 2012. Regulatory Impact Assessment and the Impact Dimension of Gender Equality.
Vienna, BMF. www.wfa.gv.at/English/WFA_Folder_BKA_English.pdf

Steger, G. 2010. Austria’s Budget Reform: How to Create Consensus for a Decisive Change of
Fiscal Rules. OECD Journal on Budgeting 10 (1), 1-14.

Steger, G. 2013. Budget Reform: Lessons Learned from Austrian Case. BMF Presentation,
Vienna, Austria, June.




Case specific – Canada

Auditor General of Canada. 2006. Report of the Auditor General of Canada to the House of
Commons: An Overview of the Federal Government’s Expenditure Management System.
November 2006. Ottawa, Office of the Auditor General. www.oag-
bvg.gc.ca/internet/English/parl_oag_200611_00_e_14968.html

Blondal. J. R. 2001. Budgeting in Canada. OECD Journal on Budgeting, 1 (2), 39-82.

Good, D. A. and Lindquist, E. L. 2010. Discerning the Consequences and Integrity of Canada’s
Budget Reforms: A Story of Remnants and Resilience. In J. Wanna, L. Jensen and J. de Vries,
Eds, The Reality of Budgetary Reform in OECD Nations, Edward Elgar, 91-121.



                                                                                               78
McCormack, L. 2007. Performance Budgeting in Canada. OECD Journal on Budgeting, 7 (4), 1-
18.

Muhleisen, M., S. Danninger, D. Hauner, K. Krajnyak and B. Sutton. 2005. How Do Canadian
Budget Forecasts Compare with Those of Other Industrial Countries? IMF Working Paper
WP/05/66. Washington DC, International Monetary Fund.

Stacey, B. 2008. Performance Budgeting in the Government of Canada. Presentation to the
OECD-MENA Senior Budget Officials Network, Cairo, Egypt, 24-25 November.

Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. 2007. A Guide to Preparing Treasury Board Submissions.
Ottawa, Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. www.tbs-
sct.gc.ca/pubs_pol/opepubs/tbm_162/gptbs-gppct-eng.pdf

Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. 2008. Guide to Costing. Ottawa, Treasury Board of
Canada Secretariat. www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?section=text&id=12251

Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. 2010. Policy on Management, Resources and Results and
Structures. Ottawa, Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-
eng.aspx?id=18218&section=text

Treasury Board of Canada Secretariat. 2014. 2014 Guidance for the Preparation of Treasury
Board Submissions. Ottawa, Treasury Board Secretariat. http://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/tbs-pct/index-
eng.asp




Case specific – The Netherlands

Blondal, J. and J. K. Kristensen. 2002. Budgeting in the Netherlands. OECD Journal on
Budgeting, 1 (3), 43-80

de Vries, J. and Bestebreur, T. 2010. Budget reform in the Netherlands: Sadder but much wiser
now. In J. Wanna, L. Jensen and J. de Vries, Eds, The Reality of Budgetary Reform in OECD
Nations, Edward Elgar, 221-239.

de Jong, M., I. van Beek and R. Posthumus. 2013. Introducing accountable budgeting: Lessons
from a decade of performance-based budgeting in the Netherlands. OECD Journal on Budgeting,
12 (3), 1-34.




                                                                                                79
The Netherlands Ministry of Finance. 2010. Budget Practices in the Netherlands. June. The
Hague, Ministry of Finance.

The Netherlands Ministry of Finance. 2012. Stability Programme of the Netherlands: April 2012
Update. The Hague, Ministry of Finance.

The Netherlands Ministry of Finance. 2013. Public Finance in the Netherlands. January. The
Hague, Ministry of Finance.




                                                                                             80
Annex 1. Finance Ministry Interviews

Follow-up interviews were conducted with the following officials.



Australian Department of Finance

Mr Gareth Hall, Assistant Secretary, Resource Framework and Reporting Branch

Dr Leanne Blackley, Director, Decision Support and Liaison, Budget Coordination Branch

Ms Amanda Lee, Assistant Secretary, Budget Coordination Branch

Ms Jennifer Torres, Acting Assistant Secretary, Budget Analysis Branch

(Date of interview: 19 December 2013)



Federal Ministry of Finance of Austria

Mr Tobias Orischnig, Budget Expert, Directorate General II (Budget and Public Finances)

(Date of interview: 11 November 2013)



Treasury Board Secretariat of Canada

Mr George Samiotis, Director, Expenditure Management Sector

Ms Sally Thornton, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Expenditure Management Sector

(Date of interview: 15 November 2013)




                                                                                          81
Annex 2. Finance Ministry Questionnaire




Governance Partnership Facility Trust Fund Project

Review of International Practices for Determining Medium-Term Resource Needs of Spending Agencies



Costing for Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks

QUESTIONNAIRE FOR CENTRAL BUDGET AGENCIES
Background
       The World Bank has received funding from the Governance Partnership Facility Trust Fund to advance
        knowledge on practical aspects of the implementation of medium term expenditure frameworks (MTEFs).
        The aim is to improve program costing practices in Indonesia and selected states in Brazil.
       The project will review international practices for determining medium term resource needs of spending
        agencies (what is also called ‘bottom-up costig’ for MTEFs). The project will compile information on
        practices and methodologies used by selected OECD countries to determine program costs as part of their
        medium term expenditure planning.
       This questionnaire is the key data collection tool for the project (and may be supplemented by follow-up
        interviews with relevant officials). It is being issued only to central budget agencies in case study countries.
        Your jurisdiction has been selected as one of four cases for comparison.
       Responses to this questionnaire will form the basis of a World Bank report. A draft of the report will be
        made available for your comment.
Instructions
       This questionnaire asks about MTEF costing practices in your jurisdiction. It consists of four sections:
         A. Institutional arrangements and procedures
         B. Program costing frameworks, practices and methods
         C. Budget and forward year cost estimates practices
         D. Systemic enablers and inhibitors.
       Each section contains a structured set of questions. Please answer all questions. Where you consider a
        question is not relevant to your jurisdiction simply provide a brief explanation why.
       You may use the presentation format of your choice, e.g. Microsoft Word or Excel.
       There are no limits on the length of answers. You are encouraged to provide examples and/or attach extracts
        from relevant policy or procedural documents to help explain your answers.
       Please direct any questions and completed questionnaires to the World Bank (rbarroso@worldbank.org) by
        30 April 2013.




                                                                                                                      82
Section A. Institutional arrangements and procedures

This section is about the key organizational arrangements and processes in place to support the medium term
expenditure framework (MTEF) in your jurisdiction. It provides important context for the detailed questions about
practices that follow. The answers in this section should focus on current arrangements, although planned or
in-progress reforms may be cited as well.



A1. What are the legal and policy instruments enabling the MTEF?

A2. What is the MTEF process and calendar? Is the MTEF integrated with the annual budget
cycle? If so, how?

A3. Who are the main institutional actors who take part in MTEF preparation? What are their
main roles and tasks during the MTEF process and connected annual budget processes?

A4. What is the time frame covered by the MTEF? Are the forward year projections cost
estimates, indicative allocations or a budget plan?

A5. Are there forward year projections on a ‘no policy change’ basis? How is this defined?

A6. Are the forward years of the MTEF reported on the basis of sectors, agencies or programs?
Why or why not? Do these expenditure categories align with those used in budget appropriations?

A7. Are expenditure estimates and/or baselines determined centrally by the central budget agency
or by spending agencies? How often are multi-year projections updated each year?

A8. Do the MTEF and annual budget process distinguish existing and new programs? How are
these defined?




                                                                                                                    83
Section B. Program costing frameworks, practices and methods

This section is about the frameworks, practices and methods for program specification and costing in your
jurisdiction. It asks about the content of costing guidance, including its role in standardizing costing methodologies,
and the way it is used in the budget process. The answers in this section should provide an overview of current
arrangements only.




B1. What is the purpose of costing information? Is it used for budget forecasts only or analytical
purposes such as to inform reviews on public expenditure efficiency?

B2. Does the central budget agency issue guidelines on program structure? Are these mandatory?

B3. What is the nature of the program structure used for preparing and presenting the budget?
How is a program defined?

B4. Does the central budget agency issue directions or guidelines on program specification
methodologies? Are they mandatory?

B5. Does the central budget agency issue guidelines on program costing? Are these mandatory?

B6. How do program costing guidelines relate to planning requirements for the annual budget
process?

B7. Do program costing guidelines cover key costing concepts and their application in the public
sector, such as cost types (employee vs other operating), cost objects as the basis for costing
systems (responsibility centres, programs or projects) and cost drivers (factors causing costs to be
incurred)?

B8. Do program costing guidelines stipulate the use of specific costing methodologies, such as
standard costing (based on standardised unit budgets) or activity based costing (based on linking
cost and activity drivers for programs)? Which methodologies? Why were they selected?

B9. How do program costing guidelines treat indirect (common pool) or fixed (such as capital)
costs? What is the ‘basis for allocation’, e.g. simplistic ‘rule-of-thumb’ formula or activity-based
costing? Do program structures provide for separate ‘support services programs’?

B10. Do program costing guidelines apply to all programs, or more narrowly to ‘new’ programs
considered in the budget process?

B11. How is cost information maintained, e.g. revising cost estimates produced by line ministries,
comparing common costs or cost inputs across line ministries, reconciling forecast and actual
costs?

B12. Is accrual accounting used as the basis for budgeting? If so, in what ways do costing
guidelines interact with accruals?




                                                                                                                          84
Section C. Budget and forward year cost estimates practices

This section is about the practices used to prepare program cost estimates for use in the MTEF Budget process in your
jurisdiction. It asks about the specific costing and/or forecasting methodologies used in the preparation of proposals
over the budget and forward years. The answers in this section should provide an overview of current arrangements
only.



C1. What is the mechanism by which the MTEF affects decisions in the budget process, e.g. is
the first forward year rolled over automatically to be the starting point for next year’s annual
budget?

C2. What directions or guidelines does the central budget agency issue for the preparation of
program costings for budget proposals? Are budget proposals prepared on a program, sectoral or
expenditure category basis?

C3. What categories of costing information are required for budget proposals? Is there allowance
for cost contingencies?

C4. Do guidelines for budget proposals distinguish between recurrent and capital purposes? Are
capital proposals required to estimate the recurrent costs of capital expenditure over the budget
and forward years? How are these estimates of future running costs incorporated into the costing
and wider MTEF processes?

C5. Do guidelines for budget proposals provide separate treatment for ‘special’ programs, such as
entitlement programs?

C6. Does the central budget agency issue specific guidelines or directions relating to the
application of methodologies for estimating the cost of programs over the forward years? Are
these forecasting methodologies applied by the central budget agency, spending agencies, or
both? Are they applied generally or selectively? Do they apply consistently across the Budget and
forward years, and if not why?

C7. What are the key components of the forecasting methodologies, for instance, standardised
economic parameters (e.g. macroeconomic assumptions), estimates construction rules (e.g. ‘no
policy change’ basis) and costing assumptions (e.g. escalation factors such as labour and non -
labour deflators, demographic and/or behavioural assumptions etc). Are these consistent across
the budget and forward years, and if not why? At what level of aggregation do these apply across
the forward years, i.e. program or sectoral?

C8. Do the forecasting methodologies differentiate between ‘policy’ changes (new policy or
significant change to existing policy) and ‘parameter’ changes (variations to an economic
parameter or agency operating environment) impacting the forward estimates of expenditure?
How are these defined? How do they relate to demand and cost variations for programs?




                                                                                                                         85
Section D. Systemic enablers and inhibitors


This section is about the types of system changes required to enable implementation of costing practices and their
integration with the MTEF in your jurisdiction. These system changes can include hard factors (such as structural,
procedural and informational reforms) and/or soft factors (such as leadership, cultural and capability reforms). The
answers in this section should focus on the strengths and weaknesses of reform strategies supporting current
arrangements.



D1. Was the implementation of cost practice improvements part of wider public financial
management (PFM) reforms? If so, at what stage of reform sequencing were they implemented,
e.g. early stages (e.g. core PFM functionality) or later stages (e.g. extend PFM capability to
support MTEF and a performance focus)? Why was this the case?

D2. What types of ‘hard factor’ reforms were considered critical to successful implementation,
e.g. integrated financial management systems, specialist cost systems, performance management
systems, audit systems, policy and guideline development etc? Please describe the most important
characteristics of each of the reforms relevant to your jurisdiction.

D3. Were hard factor reforms implemented centrally and led by the central budget agency? Please
describe the most important characteristics of the implementation strategies used.

D4. What aspects of hard factor reforms did not work well, e.g. complexity, functionality, cost of
implementation etc?

D5. What types of ‘soft factor’ reforms were considered critical to successful implementation,
e.g. training and capability development, leadership and cultural change, recruitment strategies
for specialised skills etc? Please describe the most important characteristics of each of the
reforms relevant to your jurisdiction.

D6. Were soft factor reforms implemented centrally and led by the central budget agency? Please
describe the most important characteristics of the implementation strategies used.

D7. What aspects of soft factor reforms did not work well, e.g. lack of in-house skills, inadequate
leadership (political or bureaucratic), cultural barriers etc?




                                                                                                                       86
Governance Partnership Facility Trust Fund

Bottom-up Costing for Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks in Brazil and
Indonesia




Research Report on
Brazilian Subnational Governments´
Experiences with Public Sector Costing
December 2014




Rafael Barroso

Economist, The World Bank

Dr. Michael Di Francesco

Senior Lecturer in Public Sector Management

The Australia and New Zealand School of Government (ANZSOG) and The University of
Melbourne




  The authors thank the following peer reviewers: Mário Pessoa Falcão, Joseph Kizito, Theo Thomas and
Natalia Biletska for their invaluable comments and suggestions that have helped to significantly strengthen this
report.

                                                                                                              87
ACRONYMS

ABC            Activity Based Costing                    Custeio Baseado em Atividade
BI             Business Intelligence                     Inteligência de Negócios
CAF            Financial Administration Coordination     Coordenadoria da Administração
                                                         Financeira
CAGE      Accounting and Comptroller General´s           Controladoria e Auditoria Geral do
          Office of the State of Rio Grande do Sul       Estado do Rio Grande do Sul
CFC       Federal Board of Accountancy                   Conselho Federal de Contabilidade
CWG       Costing Working Group                          GT Custos
CUSTOS/RS Cost Information System of the State of        Sistema de Informações de Custos do
          Rio Grande do Sul                              Estado do Rio Grande do Sul
DCC       Costs and Special Controls Division of         Divisão de Custos e Controles Especiais
          CAGE                                           da CAGE
DW        Data Warehouse                                 Armazém de Dados
E-FISCO   Corporate System of the State of               Sistema Corporativo do Estado de
          Pernambuco                                     Pernambuco
EHCC      Hierarchical Structure of Cost Centers         Estrutura Hierárquica de Centro de
                                                         Custos
FASAB          Federal Accounting Advisory Board         Conselho Federal Consultivo de
                                                         Contabilidade
FIPE           Economic Research Institute Foundation    Fundação Instituto de Pesquisas
               of the University of São Paulo            Econômicas da Universidade de São
                                                         Paulo
FPE/RS         Government Financial Management           Finanças Públicas do Estado do Rio
               Information System of the State of Rio    Grande do Sul
               Grande do Sul
FRL            Fiscal Responsibility Law                 Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal
Fundação       Center for Social and Educational         Centro de Atendimento Socioeducativo
CASA           Services for Adolescents                  ao Adolescente
GFMIS          Government Financial Management           Sistema de Informação de Administração
               Information System                        Financeira de Governo
GoRS           Government of the State of Rio Grande     Governo do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul
               do Sul
GPF            Governance Partnership Facility           Fundo de Parceria para Governança
GSC            Sectorial Cost Group                      Grupo Setorial de Custos
HR             Human Resources                           Recursos Humanos
IADB           Inter-American Development Bank           Banco Interamericano de
                                                         Desenvolvimento
IFAC           International Federation of Accountants   Federação Internacional de Contadores
IMF            International Monetary Fund               Fundo Monetário Internacional
IPSAS          International Public Sector Accounting    Padrões Internacionais de Contabilidade
               Standards                                 do Setor Público
IT             Information Technology                    Tecnologia da Informação
MTEF           Medium Term Expenditure Framework         Marco de Gastos de Médio Prazo
NBCT-SP        Brazilian Public Sector Accounting        Normas Brasileiras de Contabilidade
               Standard                                  Aplicadas ao Setor Público
OLAP           On-Line Analytical Processing             Processamento Analítico On-line
PE             State of Pernambuco                       Estado de Pernambuco
PE Integrado   Integrated System for Procurement,        Sistema Integrado de Gestão de Compras,
               Contracts, Assets and Stock Management    Contratos, Licitações, Patrimônio e
               of the State of Pernambuco                Almoxarifado do Estado de Pernambuco
PFM            Public Financial Management               Gestão de Finanças Públicas
PROCERGS       Data Processing Company of the State of   Companhia de Processamento de Dados
               Rio Grande do Sul                         do Estado do Rio Grande do Sul

                                                                                               88
PRODESP     Data Processing Company of the State of     Companhia de Processamento de Dados
            São Paulo                                   do Estado de São Paulo
RHE/RS      Human Resources System of the State of      Sistema de Recursos Humanos do Estado
            Rio Grande do Sul                           do Rio Grande do Sul
RS          State of Rio Grande do Sul                  Rio Grande do Sul
SAD-RH      Payroll System of the State of              Sistema de Folha de Pagamento do
            Pernambuco                                  Estado de Pernambuco
SAP/SP      State Penitentiary Administration           Secretaria de Administração Penitenciária
            Secretariat of São Paulo State              do Estado de São Paulo
SCSP/SP     Public Service Costing System of the        Sistema de Custos dos Serviços Públicos
            State of São Paulo                          do Estado de São Paulo
SEE/SP      State Secretariat of Education of São       Secretaria de Estado da Educação de São
            Paulo State                                 Paulo
SEFAZ/PE    State Secretariat of Finance of             Secretaria de Fazenda do Estado de
            Pernambuco State                            Pernambuco
SEFAZ/RS    State Secretariat of Finance of Rio         Secretaria de Fazenda do Estado do Rio
            Grande do Sul State                         Grande do Sul
SEFAZ/SP    State Secretariat of Finance of São Paulo   Secretaria de Fazenda do Estado de São
            State                                       Paulo
SEPLAG/RS   State Secretariat of Planning and           Secretaria de Planejamento e Gestão do
            Management of Rio Grande do Sul State       Estado do Rio Grande do Sul
SES/PE      State Health Secretariat of Pernambuco      Secretaria de Estado de Saúde de
            State                                       Pernambuco
SES/SP      State Health Secretariat of São Paulo       Secretaria de Estado de Saúde de São
            State                                       Paulo
SIC/PE      Cost Information System of the State of     Sistema de Informação de Custos de
            Pernambuco                                  Pernambuco
SIGEO       Budget Execution Managerial                 Sistema de Informações Gerenciais da
            Information System                          Execução Orçamentária
SGP/SP      State Secretariat of Public Management      Secretaria de Gestão Pública do Estado de
            of São Paulo State                          São Paulo
SIAFEM/SP   Government Financial Management             Sistema Integrado de Administração
            Information System of São Paulo             Financeira de Estados e Municípios do
                                                        Estado de São Paulo
SNG         Subnational Governments                     Governos Subnacionais
SP          State of São Paulo                          State of São Paulo
SPDR/SP     State Secretariat of Planning and           Secretaria de Planejamento e
            Regional Development of the State of        Desenvolvimento Regional do Estado de
            São Paulo                                   São Paulo
STN         National Treasury Secretariat               Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
UFRGS       Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul     Universidade Federal do Estado do Rio
            State                                       Grande do Sul
UML         Universal Modelling Language                Linguagem Universal de Modelagem




                                                                                              89
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.     I                   ................................................................................................................................. 91
                       ...................................................................................................................................... 93
2.1.       Introduction ............................................................................................................................... 93
2.2.       Institutional Context.................................................................................................................. 94
2.3.       Methodology ............................................................................................................................. 95
2.4.       Implementation Strategy ......................................................................................................... 101
2.5.       Technology ............................................................................................................................. 102
2.6.       Successful Experiences and Reported Problems..................................................................... 103
                                     ..................................................................................................................... 106
3.1.       Introduction ............................................................................................................................. 106
3.2.       Institutional Context................................................................................................................ 106
3.3.       Methodology ........................................................................................................................... 107
3.4.       Implementation Strategy ......................................................................................................... 109
3.5.       Technology ............................................................................................................................. 111
3.6.       Successful Experiences and Reported Problems..................................................................... 113
4.     Pernambuco................................................................................................................................. 115
4.1.       Introduction ............................................................................................................................. 115
4.2.       Institutional Context................................................................................................................ 115
4.3.       Methodology ........................................................................................................................... 116
4.4.       Implementation Strategy ......................................................................................................... 119
4.5.       Technology ............................................................................................................................. 120
4.6.       Successful Experiences and Reported Problems..................................................................... 120
5.     S               .................................................................................................................................... 122
5.1.       Status, Implementation Strategy and Support ......................................................................... 125
5.2.       Leadership and Governance Arrangements ............................................................................ 127
5.3.       Methodological Issues............................................................................................................. 128
5.4.       Technology ............................................................................................................................. 130
5.5.       Users, Purposes and Relationship with Budget....................................................................... 130
5.6.       Conclusion .............................................................................................................................. 131
6.     GLOSSARY ............................................................................................................................... 134
                         .................................................................................................................................. 139




                                                                                                                                                            90
1. I
        A public administration cost information system is not only a legal requirement of the
Brazilian Fiscal Responsibility Law (FRL) and for modernizing public accounting standards,
but is also a tool for addressing the manifold needs of managers, legislators, control bodies
and citizens. The FRL, introduced nationwide in 2000, mandates all Public Administration
bodies to have a costing system for assessing and monitoring accrual, financial and budgetary
management information 21 . This legal requirement served to reinforce the directives of
previous regulations such as Law 4.320/64, Decree-Law 200/67 and Law 10.180/01. In
addition, the decision to modernize Brazilian Public Sector Accounting Standards, bringing
them more into line with international standards, also boosted the introduction of costing
systems in the public sector. In fact, together with the new Public Sector Accounting
Standards, the Federal Accountancy Board (CFC) issued a norm (NBC T 16.11) which
instituted the standards for cost information systems in public sector agencies and mandated
the adoption of these systems.

        Although the technical framework for a cost information system has been established,
user demand and the information produced by such systems can vary significantly, e.g. from
more accurate budget preparation, measuring the efficiency and the effectiveness of public
spending, supporting decisions related to the production of a specific good, service or
activity, comparing the costs of products or services between different units to justifying fees
collected and public prices. Moreover, cost information is essential for supporting
government decisions related to technical and allocative efficiency.

         In this context, the Governance Partnership Facility (GPF) Trust Fund provided a
grant through the World Bank to support government efforts to establish and improve costing
initiatives in Brazil and Indonesia, as well as to disseminate knowledge and promote the
exchange of costing experiences. The grant has financed initial research on costing practices
within Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEF) in developed countries as well as
dissemination of this research and the exchange of experiences between subnational
governments in Brazil.

        This report details the experiences of three selected subnational governments in
Brazil: São Paulo (SP), Rio Grande do Sul (RS) and Pernambuco (PE) that were presented at
a workshop held in Rio de Janeiro on July 21 and 22, 2014. The aim was to disseminate the
survey on costing approaches in developed countries and exchange experiences in this area
aimed at helping the State Government of Rio de Janeiro to define its costing strategy. On the
first day, the participants addressed the following: objectives, methodology, implementation
strategy, timelines, technology, intra-governmental coordination, use of cost information and
early lessons. On the second day, a structured discussion took place between the speakers and
the seminar participants based on a questionnaire prepared by the World Bank.

        This report assembles case study examples of cost information practices in the three
selected subnational governments. The main objective is to present comparative information

21
     Article 50, paragraph 3.

                                                                                             91
on practices adopted by these jurisdictions. The report is more than a conventional account of
conference proceedings: it is based both on participants´ presentations and on the post-
presentation structured discussions. Furthermore, it incorporates key background material
provided by the states. Although the presentation outline and questionnaire were identical for
the three states, the case studies here nevertheless differ in terms of depth and detail,
reflecting the developmental stage of each jurisdiction, as well as the available amount of
documentary material on the cost information system possessed by each State Government
available for sharing.

        The main finding of this report highlights the need to be clear in advance of who the
users of the cost information at the Government agency are, and what kind of information
they need. The answers to these questions involve two key methodological decisions: the
definition of the cost object and the stewardship and degree of involvement of other
government agencies in this task. The case studies for each of the three states are presented in
Chapters 2-4, while other important lessons learned from the implementation strategy and
approach, technology needs and methodology are presented in Chapter 5.

        Before embarking on the case studies, certain concepts and methodological choices
must be clarified. For example, the information produced by a cost information system is not
the same as the information produced by the budget system or GFMIS (Government
Financial Management Information System). The GFMIS records the stages of public
expenditure, while cost information systems focus on recording the moment that inputs enter
the production system. The GFMIS records only cash transactions, while cost information
systems also incorporate non-cash transactions such as assets depreciation. It is important to
note that cost information is always associated with a cost object.

        Another important analytical distinction made in this report is between cost
accounting and cost information systems. The first refers to the accountancy principles and
rules that underpin the generation of cost information, and the second refers to how these
principles are translated into cost information - implying choices of methodologies and cost
objects, the design of cost reports, the definition of information needs and target audience -
that is useful and integrated with the government´s public financial and general management
practices.

        Finally, a glossary of cost accountancy terms and the specific usage of them in this
report is annexed. It contains definitions of the concepts used here as well as those employed
by the Brazilian Federal Accountancy Board, the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC) and the Federal Accountancy Advisory Board (FASAB). It is hoped that the glossary
also provides possible justification for the use of definitions that deviate from one of the
abovementioned sources.




                                                                                             92
2.1. Introduction
        The São Paulo public costing project was born out of the Strategic Plan of the
Secretariat of Finance (SEFAZ/SP) instituted in 2007. One of the Plan’s objectives was to
improve the quality of public expenditure. The activities supporting this objective initially
focused on controlling expenditure items such as utility bills in order to increase the fiscal
space for investment. After a couple of years, it became clear to SEFAZ-SP staff that more
structural improvements in terms of expenditure, together with the application of more
advanced methodologies, such as spending reviews and performance-informed budgeting,
depended on calculating the cost of budget programs.
        The SEFAZ/SP team researched examples of established costing systems used in
other Brazilian states and more developed countries, but were unable to identify experiences
that suited the needs of São Paulo State, and that could be replicated. In the light of previous
successful collaboration, the team requested technical assistance from the IMF (International
Monetary Fund) and FIPE (Economic Research Institute Foundation of the University of São
Paulo). Such support was indispensable for defining the costing system methodology and
training the staff responsible for financial and budgetary issues.
        The general approach involved costing State public services such as the socialization
of juvenile offenders and the provision of vocational training for adolescent students. The
budget programs and subprograms were the natural candidates for cost objects. The budget
programs however suffered from problems ranging from poor program definition, partial
attribution of expenditures and the large number of programs, to cultural issues in budget
preparation such as preparing and managing the budget by appropriation item. It was clear
that the definition and structure of the budget programs needed overhauling in parallel with
the development of the cost information system. This was to be the essential first step
towards a more advanced performance-informed budget structure, identifying the relevant
public services and associating them with the objects of the cost information system.
       The project commenced in 2010, but made slow progress in 2011 and 2012 due the
change of Government (a new Governor took office in 2011) and coordination problems
between SEFAZ/SP, the Planning Secretariat (SPDR/SP 22 ) and the Public Management
Secretariat (SGP/SP).
        This chapter describes the current experience                  of São Paulo State with the
implementation of its public costing system. It contains              five sections in addition to this
introduction; the institutional context in which the                  project was implemented; the
methodological approach; the implementation strategy; IT              features; and, finally, a summary
of the lessons learned.




22
  In 2011, the official name of the Planning Secretariat and thus its acronym was changed from the Secretariat
of Economics and Planning (SEP) to the Secretariat of Planning and Regional Development (SPDR/SP).

                                                                                                           93
2.2. Institutional Context
         The Public Service Costing System of the State of São Paulo (SCSP/SP - Sistema de
Custos dos Serviços Públicos do Estado de São Paulo) was under the overall direction of the
Secretariat of Finance, but depended heavily on inputs from SPDR/SP and SGP/SP23 given
that it involved a major revision of the way the state defined its budget programs and its need
to adopt new approaches to public management oversight and improvement. Two committees
consisting of SEFAZ/SP, SPDR/SP and SGP/SP representatives were formally established by
government decree. The first was tasked with overseeing the implementation of the SCSP/SP,
and the other with overseeing the implementation of results-based budgeting in the state.
Both were responsible for defining the strategies and objectives, monitoring the
implementation of the system, and harnessing political support. Despite the existence of these
committees, SGP/SP involvement was very modest and the SPDR/SP began to participate
more actively only in recent years once the performance-informed budget reforms got
underway.
        The modus operandi of the SCSP/SP included the appointment of a small group of
staff members from the Financial Administration Coordination (CAF - Coordenadoria da
Administração Financeira) to work exclusively on the project. The IMF nominated a resident
advisor to work together with this group during the first two years of the project. It also
provided backstopping assistance and was responsible for recruiting senior professionals to
ensure the theoretical soundness of the costing and budget program model. FIPE´s job was to
work with the CAF team on a daily basis and liaise with the external technical experts,
promoting the continuous improvement of working methods based on the experiences in the
pilot projects. The model was thus highly coordination-intensive. A secondary objective was
to ensure that FIPE would be in a position to acquire knowledge on cost information systems
that could later be disseminated to the rest of the country. In SEFAZ/SP the project was
managed initially by the Secretary´s Office and later by the CAF (not by the Accountancy
Division, as in the other two states).
      Besides complying with legal requirements, the SCSP/SP was envisaged primarily as
a management tool, with the following stated objectives. To:
     -   Provide managerial information in support of decision making;
     -   Provide line managers with information enabling them to improve the management of
         their units;
     -   Allow cost comparisons between similar service delivery units;
     -   Provide supporting data for formulating the Multi-annual Plan and Budget and
         Sectorial Strategies, aimed at ensuring more precise and realistic expenditure
         estimates;
     -   Provide to the general public clear and transparent information on the cost of each
         service provided.


23
  The level of participation by the two Secretariats varied throughout the process. SGP/SP participated less than
SPDR/SP. Both were less active than initially expected .

                                                                                                              94
       Although the SCSP/SP caters to the needs of many agents (e.g. civil society, the
Governor of São Paulo, the Legislative Assembly, the State Court of Accounts, and other
State Secretariats), the main target audience is the senior management of each government
agency and line managers from government units (hospital directors, school principals, etc).
        Finally, since the SCSP/SP is still at the experimental stage, there is no lower level
legal requirement in São Paulo State to determining its mandatory use as the only source of
cost information.


2.3. Methodology
        Since no established methodology for cost information systems could be found in the
technical literature or one that had been implemented in other countries (or Brazilian states),
the first years of the project were dedicated to researching the theoretical and practical
underpinnings of the cost information system24. Several technical notes were produced and
workshops held at this stage. A conceptual costing model was eventually developed, agreed
and applied on a pilot basis in four government agencies: Fundação CASA 25 , the State
Education Secretariat (SEE/SP), the State Health Secretariat (SES/SP) and the State
Penitentiary Administration Secretariat (SAP/SP), leading to the production of a working
paper on each exercise. The results were then submitted to, and discussed with, the
government agencies. SEFAZ/SP subsequently produced the first version of the costing
manual, indicating the methodology to be adopted. This research stage was instrumental in
harmonizing and disseminating knowledge within the project team to ensure smoother
implementation during the subsequent stages.
         In its search for the most suitable costing model, the state decided to adopt the Catelli
economic management framework 26 based on the so-called “5P approach?27 - essentially a
list of five key variables (all starting with the letter P):
     -   Purpose or objective – for whom is this information useful, and for what purpose?
     -   Policies and directives – which concepts and technologies to use, and which are the
         user groups?
     -   Products – what information should be collected and disseminated, and how
         regularly?
     -   Processes and systems – which systems, processes, methods and routines to adopt?
     -   Producers – who to involve and train and which resources are needed?
       This approach should be regarded as a tool to help the state take appropriate steps to
develop and implement the system. The five “Ps? were interpreted in São Paulo´s case as
follows:

24
   Please refer to the analytical distinction made between cost accountancy and cost information systems.
25
   Government agency responsible for juvenile correctional and re-socialization facilities.
26
   Dr. Catelli was a FEA-USP professor who advised Prof. Guerreiro’s PhD Dissertation on the costing of
products and services. Dr. Guerreiro is a member of the SEFAZ/FIPE cost information system team.
27
   The 5P approach is a strategic management model that uses five key variables to improve an organization
and its operations. See Pryor et al.(1994) and Ford et al. (2008).

                                                                                                             95
   -   The purpose of the costing system is to provide support to government decision
       making and cost control.
   -   Policies consist of all the rules established on cost center identification, cost
       classification and assignment, and costing methods. These policies serve to produce
       the identification, accumulation and measurement models of the SCSP/SP.
   -   The product is the cost information per se, as well as the format, periodicity and
       availability of the information.
   -   The processes refer to how the costing system interacts with the government agencies´
       routines and work processes. The processes also involve mapping business processes,
       a survey of existing IT systems and of the data produced and the adoption of the new
       culture by government agency staff.
   -   The producers are the employees responsible for entering data into all the systems that
       feed into the SCSP/SP, and for producing the cost reports. This variable also covers
       the desired or required level of centralization and decentralization of the production
       and use of the cost reports.
         The first decision made after the research phase was to entrust SCSP/SP with
calculating the cost of the public service at the cost center level (school, hospital, correctional
facility), using a standardized method for the entire state, retrieving essential data from the
existing centralized and corporate systems from line agencies.
     In practice, the SCSP/SP model consists of four models: Identification and
Accumulation, Measurement, Decision and Information and Processing, as shown in




       FIGURE 1.

        The Identification and Accumulation Model entails the identification and structuring
of the cost objects – public services families, programs, cost centers, etc – based on the
structure and main function of each government agency. It is a representative model of the
organizational and operational reality of the particular agency and is represented by a service
matrix that is by definition specific to each agency.
        These matrices detail the cost objects on four levels, with the fourth level being the
cut-off point for the SCSP/SP. Beyond the fourth level, the government agencies can drill
down if necessary. The resources consumed are appropriated at the lowest level (Level 4),
which is the most disaggregated one. From this level, the information can be aggregated in
order to obtain the cost figure for more aggregate cost objects or higher organizational levels.
The intermediate organizational levels (Levels 2 and 3) represent clusters of similar units,
which also serve as comparators in benchmark exercises. Figure 2 and 3 show the services
matrices constructed for SAP/SP and SES/SP.

                                                                                                96
                                     FIGURE 1 – CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK OF THE SCSP/SP




                                                       Source: SEFAZ/SP

                                     FIGURE 2: IDENTIFICATION AND ACCUMULATION MODEL - SERVICE MATRIX FROM
SAP/SP

                                                              Service Matrix - State Penitentiary Administration Secretariat
                                                                                        Cost Objects
Level 0 Level 1                                              Level 2          Level 3                      Level 4                  Services
 State Penitentiary Administration




                                                                                                         Basic Needs
                                                                                                         Health Care
                                                           Provisional
                                                            Detention                                     Education
                                        Prison Units
             Secretariat




                                                             Centers                           Human and Safe Management       Detailing: services,
                                                                                                       Legal Assistance         programs, projects,
                                                                                                                               covenants, functions
                                                                                                 Psychosocial Assistance
                                                                                                         Basic Needs
                                                                               Male
                                                          Penitentiaries                                 Health Care
                                                                            Penitentiary
                                                                                                          Education


                                                                                                                                           97
                                                                                                                          Human and Safe Management
                                                                                                                                Legal Assistance
                                                                                                                             Psychosocial Assistance
                                                                                                                                  Basic Needs
                                                                                                                                   Health Care
                                                                                                        Female                      Education
                                                                                                      Penitentiary        Human and Safe Management
                                                                                                                                Legal Assistance
                                                                                                                             Psychosocial Assistance
                                                                                                                                  Basic Needs
                                                                                                                                   Health Care
                                                                                                       Maximum
                                                                                                                                    Education
                                                                                                       Security
                                                                                                      Penitentiary        Human and Safe Management
                                                                                                                                Legal Assistance
                                                                                                                             Psychosocial Assistance
Source: SEFAZ/SP

                              FIGURE 3: IDENTIFICATION AND ACCUMULATION MODEL - SERVICE MATRIX FROM
SES/SP

                                                                                                Service Matrix - State Health Secretariat
                                                                                                                Cost Objects
Level 0 Level 1                                                                       Level 2                Level 3                       Level 4               Services
                                                                                                                                        Inpatient Care
                                                                                                                                      Ambulatory Care
                                                                                                          Hospital Care               Emergency Care
                                                                                                                                     Outpatient Surgery
                                                                                                                              Diagnostic and Therapeutic Care
                                                                                                                                        Medical Care
                                Health Units (hospitals, ambulatories, etc.)




                                                                                 Full Health Care                                       Surgical Care
                                                                                                          Specialty Care      Non-medical Care (psychologists,
                                                                                                                                       nurses, etc.)
   State Health Secretariat




                                                                                                                                         Dental Care             Detailing:
                                                                                                                              Diagnostic and Therapeutic Care     services,
                                                                                                                        Pharmaceutical assistance                programs,
                                                                                                                                                                  projects,
                                                                                                                          Decentralized health care              covenants,
                                                                                                                Sanitary and Environmental Surveillance           functions
                                                                                                                       Epidemiological Surveillance
                                                                                Health Surveillance
                                                                                                                        Public Health Laboratories
                                                                                                                               Vector Control
                                                                                        Production of Immunobiologics, blood products and drugs
                                                                                                Science, Technology and Innovations in Health
                                                                                                               Health Education
                                                                                 Medical Care with           Homeotherapeutic Care (Direct Administration)
                                                                               blood, components and      Homeotherapeutic Care (Contracts and Agreements)
                                                                                     derivatives
                                                                                                                     Homeotherapeutic Care (Abroad)

                                                                                                                                                                     98
                                    Administrative and Support Services to Health Units
                      Corporative and Administrative Services from State Health Secretariat
Source: SEFAZ/SP

       The Measurement Model establishes the criteria and methods for assigning costs to
the cost objects including cost centers. It identifies the moment that the resources are
consumed, assesses their monetary value and links this information to a specific cost object.
        The direct tracing cost assignment method is used. Cost proration is avoided by
employing three alternative methods: (i) when the public service is a budget functional
classification the cost information already exists in the GFMIS; (ii) to use the data inputted in
the NL CC28 transaction created in the SIAFEM/SP (Sistema Integrado de Administração
Financeira de Estados e Municípios – São Paulo). This involves the designated official
recording the cost center and cost object to which this transaction has been directed during
the budget execution. This is required when a cost resource is used by more than one cost
center; and (iii) finally, to distribute the costs directly according to previously specified
parameters used in other systems or Government documents e.g. government procurement
documents. This data is inputted in SCSP/SP and processed automatically.
       Other features of the Measurement Model include: compliance with international
accounting standards, adherence to local legal standards such as stocks evaluation and asset
depreciation time profiles, and the use of budget-adjusted data to generate accrual
information. The decision to use budget information instead of accrual accounting
information arose because the state had not implemented accrual accounting when the costing
information system started. It is expected that as the state continues to implement accrual
accounting, this will serve as the cost information system´s source of information. It can be
seen from this that the cost information system does not need to have accrual accounting or
budgeting in place. Furthermore, the Measurement Model generates information on how to
measure specific cost items such as personnel and assets.




                  shows all the steps needed in the Measurement Model before reaching the
           FIGURE 4
next stage - the Decision and Information Model.
       The Decision and Information Model of the SCSP/SP focuses on how cost
information is translated into summary reports and fed into the state´s decision making
process. The component concerns the format and content (but not the style) of the reports and

28
     NL CC = nota de lançamento de centro de custos (cost center attribution transaction).

                                                                                              99
aims to ensure that the relevant information is tailored and conveyed to each decision maker
in the clearest way possible. Depending on user needs, these reports can provide detailed cost
information on services, cost centers and other cost objects, as well as on cost resources:
personnel, public utilities, outsourced services, and employer contributions.




        FIGURE 4 – STEP BY STEP APPROACH TO THE MEASUREMENT MODEL

                                                                      Attribute cost of the
    Structure Identification              Define most                resources consumed to
      and Accumulation               appropriate cost driver          the respective public
            Model                                                            service




            Services                       Cost driver                      Costs of
           Identified                       defined                         services




      Identify resources              Process and retrieve
       consumed in the              information (q) and ($)                Decision and
      service providing             from costing items, via             Information Model
          activities                          DW




          Consumed                         Information
          resources                         ($) and (q)
          identified                         retrieved


Source: SEFAZ/SP

       Finally, the SCSP/SP Processing Model, described later in the technology section, is
concerned with all the IT architecture supporting the SCSP/SP.



                                                                                              100
        In accountancy terms 29 , the methodological model developed by the State of São
Paulo can be described as consisting primarily of the process based accumulation method, the
actual cost measurement model and the direct tracing cost assignment method. In other words
there is no proration of costs. The costs are assigned to the service to which it primarily
contributes. In order to do this, the system obtains information from government-wide
systems, from line agencies´ internal systems, and even from the terms of reference of
contracted services such as office cleaning and security.
       Despite the managerial appeal of the Activity Based Costing (ABC) approach, São
Paulo State decided not to use this due to its complexity, the lack of expertise and in-house
culture and knowledge. This however does not preclude any government agency from
experimenting with ABC in complementation to the SCSP/SP. While customization of the
system to meet the specific needs of any agency is not foreseen at this stage, government
agencies such as the Health Secretariat that need more detailed cost information are
nevertheless not precluded from using cost information solutions provided by private firms.
        Regarding the structure of cost centers, the State of São Paulo did not possess an
established cost center structure before starting to develop its cost information system. The
closest thing it had to a cost center classification was a cadaster of all its administrative units
(Cadastro de UAs), used mainly for administrative and organizational purposes. This cadaster
needed to be enhanced with more information about the administrative units and also include
the information on decentralized government agencies such as foundations and State-owned
companies. The state decided however not to restructure and update the cadaster state-wide
prior to commencing development of the costing system. Rather, it embarked on a less
ambitious and more pragmatic approach, revising the cadaster in each piloted government
agency together with defining the public services (costing objects) to be costed. In fact,
revising the cadaster and creating the service matrix of each government agency is the first
step towards introducing the cost information system, allowing the cost center structure to be
adapted to the needs of each government agency. For example, at SAP/SP the cost center is
the correctional unit, which is also the budget executing unit, while at the SEE/SP the schools
are the cost centers and the budget executing units are at the regional director level.
       The system aims to ensure comparability of cost information between all government
agencies. There was no need to develop a specific costing chart of accounts as in
Pernambuco. Regarding periodicity, cost reports are scheduled to be produced every four
months. Another important characteristic of the system worth noting is that it uses current
expenditure data to calculate costs.


2.4.       Implementation Strategy
       The implementation strategy is characterized by its gradual approach, with the system
being implemented in a few Secretariats at a time. It is worth noting that the methodology
was developed and implemented without using an IT system. The IT system started to be


29
     See the glossary at the end of this report for an explanation of the accounting terms employed.

                                                                                                       101
developed only after the methodology had been tested in four different Secretariats for over a
year and after reports had been produced and results scrutinized.
       The pilot units were selected on the basis of several criteria, the most important being
the essential nature of the service provided and the existence of staff performance payment
schemes. Other factors also played a role such as a long-standing need to calculate costs as in
the case of Fundação CASA 30 , or the advantages of the organizational structure, as at
SAP/SP, where the cost centers were already budgetary units.
       Development of the system required good coordination between IMF and FIPE and
the involvement of PRODESP (Data Processing Company of the State of São Paulo),
responsible for developing the software. Other agencies involved included the government
agencies (mentioned above) that were used for experimental purposes prior to system
deployment.
         The State Secretariats selected for the pilot project adopted a step by step approach.
SEFAZ/SP first focused on obtaining the support of the senior management of the four
agencies. Subsequently, their coordinators and technical staff became involved in the project.
The key points used to convince line managers to cooperate and participate in the SCSP/SP
initiative included the legal requirement to do so, the opportunity to participate in an
innovative project, and acknowledgment of the SCSP/SP´s potential as a powerful tool to
support decision making.
       Experience has also revealed that substantial pre-operational work to develop and
implement the costing system in the government agencies is needed as well as assisted
operation by costing champions from SEFAZ/SP.
        A project management methodology aimed at generating a monitoring and evaluation
routine among staff proved to be crucial for keeping the project running and avoiding
significant cost and time overruns.


2.5. Technology
        The SCSP/SP is an analytical system that uses the same DW (Data Warehouse)
system with OLAP (On-Line Analytical Processing) servers as the SIGEO. This system
extracts data from the State GFMIS, for analytical purposes and enables reports to be
customized.
        However the SCSP/SP required three changes to be made in the state´s corporate
transactional systems. The most important was the creation of the “NL CC? transaction at the
SIAFEM/SP, which serves to distribute the costs among cost centers in cases where budget
execution is not recorded directly at the cost center level - a situation arising for example at
the Education Secretariat. The other changes involved the systems used specifically by
SAP/SP and SES/SP. It is worth noting that the development and implementation of the

30
  The Court of Accounts required Fundação CASA to implement a costing system because the simple division
of its total budget by the number of people served showed that average expenditure per “client? exceeded that of
the Education Secretariat.

                                                                                                            102
SCSP/SP highlighted opportunities for improving existing IT systems and business
procedures by the implementing agencies, as well as for drawing their attention to the need to
develop new administrative systems.
        The SCSP/SP Processing Model focuses on the interaction between the SCSP/SP and
the corporate and structural transactional systems of the state, and on the logical procedures
used to retrieve data from these systems, to transform them into cost information (in
accordance with the methodology developed in the first two models) and to make this
information available through cost reports as per the Information and Decision Model.
        The SCSP/SP IT system was designed to retrieve information from the state´s existing
corporate and structural transactional systems, as well as from other systems specific to each
government agency. This was done to avoid systems overlap and double data entry. To
implement the state´s programmatic approach to costs it was essential to obtain highly
detailed data, e.g. information on the number of hours worked by each teacher and the level
of education taught (primary, secondary and/or tertiary) was obtained from the Education
Secretariat´s payroll system.
        Development of the IT system entails using, wherever possible, standard industry
procedures such as the Universal Modelling Language (UML) and the Oracle Business
Intelligence application, both already familiar to government officials. The system is being
developed by the State-owned IT Company PRODESP and its first version is scheduled for
launching in January 2015. The piloted agencies will thereafter be able to generate cost
information reports on a routine basis prior to the system being rolled out to other
government agencies.

               BOX 1 –ACTUAL COST INFORMATION REPORTS FROM SÃO PAULO

           Since the São Paulo cost information system is already operational (on a pilot basis and
   involving only selected agencies), this Box provides an example of the cost information
   available and the exercises generated by the system.
           Figure 5 shows the actual cost per prisoner in nominal Brazilian Reais for the month of
   March, 2014 in five prisons. All these facilities only hold provisional prisoners, i.e. those that
   have not been definitively sentenced. The facilities are not named because the data is not yet in
   the public domain. The figures however reflect actual costs and publication was authorized by
   SEFAZ/SP.
           Several conclusions with clear policy implications can be drawn. Firstly, costs differ by
   over 20 percent between the lowest and the highest. Secondly, the data shows that the prisons
   relying most heavily on outsourced services are not necessarily the ones with the lowest cost.
   An important caveat: some facilities in São Paulo are operating above their nominal capacity
   and some adjustment for this excess capacity is therefore required.
                        Figure 5 – Cost per Prisoner (Brazilian Real – March/2014)




                                                                                                    103
               1800
                                                                           1,573
               1600
                          1,338                          1,347
               1400                                                                      1,269
                                          1,284
               1200
               1000
                800
                600
                400
                200
                  0
                         Prison A       Prison B       Prison C           Prison D      Prison E

                      Personnel     Social Security    Public Utilities      Outsourced Services




2.6. Successful Experiences and Reported Problems
        The main problems observed relate to coordination issues, staff turnover and support
by senior government officials. The approach chosen by the State of São Paulo, combining a
revision of budget programs and cost center structures as the first step of the process, can be
invaluable for incorporating cost information for budgeting and evaluation purposes.
However this approach requires close coordination and alignment between SEFAZ/SP and
SPDR/SP - in charge of the cost information system and the budget respectively.
Unfortunately, coordination and alignment between the two Secretariats fluctuated during
project execution, and implementation was slower than initially expected. As a result,
SEFAZ/SP decided to move ahead of SPDR/SP by devising the service matrix and cost
center structure with the line agencies. This initiative was later revised and incorporated into
the budget by SPDR/SP31.
        A further problem was the internal coordination of the core team, consisting of staff
from SEFAZ/SP, IMF and FIPE, tasked with implementing the SCSP/SP. Furthermore, the
SCSP/SP was financed by an Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) loan, which
involved a separate line of reporting and accountability. The lack of clear roles and
responsibilities and the separate lines of accountability made the project implementation pace
faltered at the beginning.
        Another problem faced by SEFAZ/SP in developing the cost information system was
the high staff turnover rate. The SEFAZ project team was composed mainly of officials
known as Public Finance and Budget Analysts (a newly created career category). Initially,
this appeared to be an advantage since these new officials were well-motivated and,
importantly, possessed accountancy and cost information expertise derived from their private
sector experience. However the unattractiveness of the career in comparison to the private
sector and (predominantly) to other public service careers, resulted in a high turnover rate.


31
     SPDR/SP is incorporating the service matrix in the performance-informed budget reform.

                                                                                                   104
This led to constant changes in the project team, some loss of accumulated knowledge and a
temporary slowing of the pace of implementation.
        A final problem. The project commenced one year before the change in government,
which meant that by the time the new Governor of São Paulo and his team took office the
SCSP/SP had not matured enough to show some quick wins or show that it had won support
from key stakeholders. Considerable time was therefore spent explaining the importance of
the SCSP/SP to key senior officials and the need for a joint effort by SEFAZ/SP and
SPDR/SP. Some agreement was eventually reached and a measure of support obtained,
resulting for example in the issuance of government decrees creating the SCSP/SP and the
results-based budgeting implementation groups.
        On a more positive note, SEFAZ/SP demonstrated that it was essential to devote time
to researching and developing the methodology and conducting SCSP/SP pilot studies. This
stage helped to consolidate the theoretical foundations of the model to ensure that it was fit
for purpose. Most importantly, it provided an opportunity to enhance the knowledge and
expertise of the core team, enabling its members to define the type of information that would
be generated by the system and to inform stakeholders of this at an early stage
       A further success reported by SEFAZ-SP was the construction of the system jointly
with the line agencies, especially at the service matrix and cost center stage. This joint effort
enabled the government agencies to assume ownership of the SCSP/SP and thus allow the
SCSP/SP to produce the relevant cost information.
        A final lesson learned was the importance of having good, accurate and useful
performance information for using alongside cost information. This aspect, frequently
overlooked, is important given that cost information per se does not show whether resources
are being well spent. In short, cost information alone is not a sufficient basis for elaborating
practical policy recommendations to improve allocative and technical efficiency.




                                                                                             105
3.1. Introduction
         Of the three states surveyed in this report, Rio Grande do Sul was the first to adopt a
cost information system. System development began in 2003, led by the Secretariat of
Finance (SEFAZ/RS), with external support provided only at the methodological stage.
Although the system has matured and is already producing cost reports for most government
agencies, the state still has a long way to go in terms of system development and expanding
its utilization in the state´s public management processes.

        This chapter, reporting the experience of the State of Rio Grande do Sul with the
ongoing implementation of its cost information system, consists of six sections (including the
introduction). The first substantive section describes the institutional context, while the
second focuses on the system methodology. The third section looks at the implementation
strategy, and the fourth reviews the IT aspects of the system. The final section reviews the
lessons learned during system implementation and utilization.


3.2. Institutional Context
       The system was conceived at the outset primarily to comply with federal legislation
on public sector costing. The state did not however regard this as its only raison d´être. The
legal obligation in reality created an opportunity for developing a tool to advance
management practices in the state administration - a goal that the Finance Secretariat´s
Accounting and Comptroller General´s Office (CAGE) had over many years sought for and
which explains why CAGE took the leading role in its development.
       The system was designed to cater to a variety of audiences and purposes, e.g. line
managers (to obtain and evaluate the inputs needed for producing the required product),
managers of government agencies (to monitor costs and the achievement of targets),
policymakers and planning agencies (to determine resource allocations to different
government programs), and control agencies (to evaluate the results).
       In order to achieve the above, two university professors from the Accountancy
Department of the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) were hired as
consultants to help develop the model´s basic design in 2003 and 2004. The State-owned data
processing company PROCERGS subsequently developed the Information Technology (IT)
system. In the event not all expenditures and cost objects were initially incorporated in the IT
system and some system functionalities are still being implemented.
        The State Government’s efforts to improve costing practices and meet the needs of
key practioners eventually led to the introduction in 2012 of CUSTOS/RS (Cost Information
System of the State of Rio Grande do Sul). Formally established by Decree 49.766/12, the
cost information system is defined as a set of procedures, IT systems and stakeholders for
registering, processing, calculating and analyzing the costs of the government´s agencies


                                                                                            106
based on the cost attributes of the lowest level consumption units (cost centers, projects and
activities). The system aims to:
   -   calculate the costs of government administrative units and budget programs;
   -   integrate and support the accounting system;
   -   guide and instruct decision making processes;
   -   enable and enhance results assessments of government agencies;
   -   support planning and budgeting processes; and
   -   support initiatives for improving expenditure quality.
        While Decree 49.766/12 was the main legal instrument for instituting CUSTOS/RS,
the system´s legal framework was supplemented by other administrative directives, such as
CAGE Normative Instruction No. 1, which contributed to successful implementation.


3.3. Methodology
         From a purely cost accounting viewpoint, and in accordance with the definitions
contained in the glossary at the end of this report, the chosen methodology includes a process
costing accumulation method, an actual cost measurement method and a direct tracing cost
assignment method. This means that costs are calculated on a continuous basis throughout
time; using actual expenditure data recorded in the GFMIS (locally called Finanças Públicas
do Estado – FPE). Rio Grande do Sul decided that common pool costs would be allocated to
the cost center responsible for managing such costs. For example, if one energy meter in a
facility serves several cost centers the energy costs are allocated to the cost center responsible
for managing and paying for this facility´s energy. No proration was therefore needed to
obtain the cost information.
        The model chosen involves in practice a multidimensional approach to costs that
enables the Rio Grande do Sul Government (GoRS) to simultaneously allocate costs to two
types of cost objects: (i) government administrative units, or the hierarchical or vertical
dimension; and (ii) government programs and actions, also known as the
programmatic/functional or horizontal dimension. Figure 6 illustrates this multidimensional
approach.
    The vertical dimension is the government´s own hierarchical structure, e.g. the cost of the
entire executive branch can be calculated by costing government agencies and departments,
or even budgetary units such as schools and hospitals. On the other hand, the horizontal
dimension begins with the functional classification of government and subsequently involves
calculating the costs of government programs and subprograms.

        The cost attributes displayed in Figure 6 are subject to registration and provide some
information on costs and cost centers. There are two types of cost attributes: (i): consumption
attributes, comprising the quality, temporal, quantitative, and locational features of costs; and
(ii) costs center attributes, created to improve the operation of the system such as structure,
links, registrations.


                                                                                              107
FIGURE 6 - MULTI-DIMENSIONAL APPROACH TO COSTS

                                            Horizontal – GOVERNMENT ACTIONS


                                                 PROGRAMMATIC     FUNCTIONAL




                                                                                         FUNCTIONAL AND
                                                                                          PROGRAMATIC
                                                                                           DIMENSION
                              Consumption             Project        Function
                               Attributes            Activity      Sub-function
                                                      Action
                                                     Program
  VERTICAL – BY STRUCTURE




                             STRUCTURAL
                              Cost Center
                                 Sector
                                Section
                                Division
                               Department                CUSTOS /
                            INSTITUTIONAL               RS SYSTEM
                             Budgetary Units
                                Agencies




                             HIERARCHICAL
                            AND STRUCTURAL
                               DIMENSION


Source: CAGE/RS
        A key concept introduced by the costing system that is essential to this
multidimensional structure is that of the cost center and the related Hierarchical Structure of
Cost Centers (EHCC). The latter is described as a coding administrative and budgetary
structure system that identifies agencies and entities and displays its components
hierarchically, observing the legal basis, the structure adopted by State Government’s human
resources department, and the operational and/or management relevance. The cost center
concept is important for a variety of reasons. Firstly, the cost center is the most analytical
level of cost accumulation, enabling cost information to be accurately captured at the place
and time in which the cost is incurred. Furthermore, given its embedded relational structure,
costs can be cascaded upwards both to higher administrative units and budget programs.
Secondly, cost centers are a standard and consistent government structure classification that
exists in all government IT systems, ensuring adequate connection and the accuracy of the
data managed.
       The main source of information is the budget, where adjustments were made in order
to convert budget information into cost information. Accrual accounting information,
regarded as the preferred source, was not available when CUSTO/RS was being developed,



                                                                                            108
and no tailored information needs from specific government agencies have been identified to
date.
        Finally, regarding periodicity, the reports are available online through the
government´s internal network and can be obtained at any time, customized if required to
reporting periods ranging from one month to one year. There is no obligation to issue formal
cost reports with pre-defined periodicity, which means that each government agency can
issue reports on an ad hoc basis, depending on the requirements of its management team.
CAGE recently introduced a requirement to include cost reports in each government agency´s
annual report. As from 2015 (referring to Budget Year 2014) every agency that has
implemented CUSTOS/RS will be required to produce at least one annual cost report.


3.4. Implementation Strategy
        The implementation strategy of the GoRS costing system was guided by six premises:
compliance with legal requirements; the introduction of a gradually evolving system;
automatic data entry; interoperability with other government IT systems; consistency with
accounting records; and results-focusing. These six premises produced four principles to
guide the implementation strategy:
   -   gradual development and implementation;
   -   intensive use of Information Technology;
   -   a multi-dimensional cost approach; and
   -   a user friendly environment for producing and analyzing cost information.
        The decision to implement the system gradually rather than adopting a “big bang?
approach was necessary because of the high volume of data that needed to be processed from
over 60 public agencies linked to the core government´s IT systems. It was decided that: (i)
not all government agencies would implement the system simultaneously, and (ii)
expenditure data would be incorporated gradually into the costing system. Meanwhile, the
vertical cost dimension was to take precedence over horizontal cost dimension in the
development and implementation of the system. System implementation was to be carried out
in two stages: (i) the development, implementation and generation of cost information by
government units (vertical dimension); and (ii) costing information by government programs.
       Stage 1 involved firstly allocating the direct costs to cost objects, beginning with key
costs such as payroll, followed by less substantial and more complicated costs such as
depreciation. The system was first implemented at the Secretariat of Education in December
of 2011, while three further agencies were incorporated in 2012 and 10 in 2013. 11 agencies
were expected to be incorporated by end-2014. The roll-out of the costing system to
government agencies is expected to be fully completed by 2017. Meanwhile, implementation
of Stage 2 is expected to start after completion of Stage 1. These timelines were recently
extended, with Stage 1 expected to end in 2015 and Stage 2 expected to get underway in
2014.



                                                                                           109
        The third guideline refers to the multi-dimensional aspect of cost, previously
explored, which enables the state to simultaneously allocate costs to two different types of
cost objects.
         The second and fourth implementation guidelines relate to the IT aspects of the
costing systems (i.e. the requirement for automatic data inputting and compatibility with
other government IT systems). The government envisaged that the success of the system
would depend on the amount of intervention or behavioral change demanded of end-users at
this stage (e.g. the less, the better). By relying heavily on IT the government ensured
consistency between accounting, financial and cost information, possible because the
hardware and software solution chosen was compatible with the legacy IT systems. Finally,
by allowing end-users to access the costing system for consultation and analytical purposes
from any computer connected to the internet (webclient rather server-client), and by offering
a graphical interface identical to the one used at the GFMIS, the need for training government
staff to operate the system was reduced. Nonetheless, several training sessions have been run
by CAGE since the system was introduced.
        CAGE led the development and implementation of the cost information system. This
central government agency is responsible for issuing accountancy norms, including cost
accountancy, for all State Government agencies, including the Judicial and Legislative
branches.
        Neither the Government nor SEFAZ/RS established a special committee with
consultative or oversight functions. The costing system was, and continues to be,
implemented by a small group of up to four civil servants at CAGE in the Costs and Special
Controls Division (DCC). A Sectorial Costing Group (SCG) was created in each government
agency to act as the interlocutor with CAGE and to steer the implementation of the costing
system in its respective agency. As such, the structure for implementing the system can be
described as an autonomous rather than a multi-disciplinary arrangement that does not require
broad political support beyond the Finance Secretariat. On the other hand, this autonomous
approach cannot fully guarantee the sustainability of the cost information. In Rio Grande do
Sul´s case the approach increased the need for cost information dissemination and the
training of staff members who had not participated previously in the development of the
system.
        SEFAZ/RS was responsible from the outset for modelling, constructing, and
managing the costing system. Meanwhile, the Sectorial Costing Groups dealt with
operational rather than strategic issues. After a few years of system implementation, the
Secretariat of Planning and Management (SEPLAG/RS) and SEFAZ/RS are finally beginning
to jointly discuss modalities for feeding cost information into the planning and budgeting
process. This was not the case at the design stage.
       Coordination of system implementation was based more on a legal, formal and
hierarchical approach than on collegiate decisions. The role played by legal norms in the
implementation strategy was crucial. Decree 49.766, introduced in 2012, was the main legal
instrument for establishing the CUSTOS/RS. This was reinforced by a number of


                                                                                          110
administrative directives such as CAGE Normative Instruction No. 1, as well as by the 2014
Budget Guidelines Law (Law 14.266/2013).
        This formal approach is reflected in how the information is used by CAGE. Since the
system was developed without prior scoping of the line agencies´ business requirements, but
as an autonomous initiative by a specific government department (CAGE), there was no
structured process in place for using the cost information when it became available 32. The
CAGE Costs Division nevertheless reports increasing use of the cost information by units
that have had the cost information system for longer. The division also claims that more
complex analyses are being fed informally into service delivery processes.
       In order to institutionalize this process, CAGE used another Normative Instruction
(IN 01/2014) to instruct all government agencies that had used the cost information system
for over a year to incorporate cost information reports (including indications of resource
savings or productivity gains generated by the information) into their Annual Reports, to be
made accessible on Rio Grande do Sul´s Transparency Portal.


3.5. Technology
       As in any large government-wide system, IT is crucial to the success of the costing
system. The IT architecture reflects the following user requirements:
     -   compatibility with other existing information systems;
     -   to accommodate updated information from the systems that can be fed into
         CUSTOS/RS;
     -   to display the user environment via the internal network (Rede PROCERGS);
     -   to follow the FPE navigation structure;
     -   to be fully adapted to the costing methodology prescribed by CAGE; and
     -   to ensure maximum flexibility in the adjustment scope so that new user or
         methodology requirements can be incorporated.
      At present the system requirements comprise a computing platform based on the
model used by the FPE modules, a Microsoft SQL database, Microsoft ASP language for
WEB programming, and some routines in Visual Basic.




32
  This is not to suggest that a Government-wide cooperation effort was possible, but simply to highlight that
there were alternatives between these two extreme options that, if explored, could have produced better
outcomes.

                                                                                                            111
FIGURE 7 – OVERVIEW OF CUSTOS/RS IT STRUCTURE




Source: CAGE/RS
       CUSTOS/RS is a transactional system (Central Modules) that feeds an analytical
system (Managerial Module). The system was developed by the State-owned IT company
PROCERGS. Rio Grande do Sul is currently the only state of the three examined in this
report with an operational cost information system. The system was developed in parallel
with the methodology, i.e. cost information was not produced and tested before the system
was developed.
       During the implementation of the cost information system minor adjustments had to
be made to other systems, especially to the Human Resources system (RHE/RS). Meanwhile,
other systems developed concurrently were designed to be eventually integrated with
CUSTOS/RS.
       PROCERGS was responsible for developing and implementing various Central
Modules to feed the Management Module, such as the RHE/RS and FPE/RS systems. It is
worth mentioning that the payroll system, for example, also underwent minor adjustment.
        The cost information system allows users rapid access to standardized reports and key
data rather than to detailed cost information. Cost information can also be filtered by
jurisdictions, government agencies, municipalities, periods, etc, depending on a manager’s
specific interests. In this way the system caters to specific access requirements as well as
affording comparability between cost objects and Government agencies.




                                                                                         112
       BOX 2 – ACTUAL COST INFORMATION REPORTS FROM RIO GRANDE DO SUL

    This Box shows the average cost per prisoner from January to October 2014 in seven selected
     correctional facilities in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre in Rio Grande do Sul. These
   figures are actual costs in nominal terms. The values are displayed in Error! Reference source
                         not found.FIGURE 8 – AVERAGE COST PER PRISONER

           4,500
           4,000    3,845.50 3,902.35

           3,500
           3,000
                                        2,365.42
           2,500
           2,000
           1,500
           1,000                                   677.24                777.83
             500                                                                     340.19
                                                              169.49
               0
                     Jail A    Jail B     High     Prison D   Prison E   Prison F   Prison G
                                        Security
                                         Prison


          Figure 8 clearly shows that the cost per prisoner varies markedly and that more
  information needs to be included in order to support any analysis. It is important to note that the
  different types of correctional facilities are displayed. Prisons A and B are small facilities
  (fewer than 100 inmates) designed for prisoners in the semi-open or open penal regime, while
  Prisons D to G house inmates in all four different penal regimes, but differ in size and in the
  proportion of prisoners in each regime. Finally, a high security prison is expected by definition
  to incur higher costs. The use of the facilities in excess of its nominal capacity should also be
  taken into account since fixed costs will be more spread in these cases. In short, cost
  benchmark exercises need to be carefully devised to avoid producing misleading conclusions.


3.6. Successful Experiences and Reported Problems
        The task of implementing the costing system was fraught with problems, but it also
yielded some positive lessons. Problems included: the lack of a culture of cost analysis (e.g.
staff were initially reluctant to adopt the costing system since they wrongly assumed that it
would involve more work); the lack of a central information system to enable the costing
system to search and combine information from several different sources and systems; the
incipient theoretical-conceptual methodological framework; and, finally, inadequate
computerized systems that had been previously adopted in the public finance area.

        On the other hand, some successful experiences were reported: the CUSTOS/RS
system has been implemented in 14 agencies and is currently in operation; the hierarchical
Cost Center structure is in place and acknowledged by other systems used in FPE; the system
is legally institutionalized; and training and capacity development of groups responsible for



                                                                                                    113
costing practices is underway. Finally, the Court of Auditors now insists on cost analysis
reports from public managers.




                                                                                      114
4. Pernambuco

4.1. Introduction
        Of the three states surveyed, Pernambuco is the latecomer. Its information system,
known initially as the “Sistema de Gestão de Custos? (Cost Management System) and
recently renamed the “Sistema de Informação de Custos – SIC/PE? (Cost Information
System), is still being developed and implemented. Given that the state has completed the
conceptual design stage, all the information below refers to the conceptual design of the
system and early implementation efforts. The data is less comprehensive than in the cases of
São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul given that Pernambuco’s efforts are still at a very early
stage.
       As a latecomer, Pernambuco benefited from the experience of e.g. Rio Grande do Sul,
through field visits and knowledge exchange.
        This chapter contains five substantive sections: Section 4.2. addresses the institutional
context; Section 4.3. looks at the methodological issues surrounding the SIC/PE; and Section
4.4. describes the implementation strategy. Section 4.5. refers to the technology supporting
the system. The final section reviews the provisional lessons learned.


4.2. Institutional Context
        The SIC/PE emerged as the result of efforts by the task force (GT Custos) established
by Government Decree33 in 2011, to implement the new Brazilian Public Sector Accounting
Standards in Pernambuco. This was seen as a natural step because the new standards also
called for cost accounting to be implemented in public agencies. The task force, under the
aegis of the Finance Secretariat (SEFAZ/PE), comprises nine government agencies, including
the Legislative and Judicial Powers, together with the Court of Accounts.
        In addition to complying with the FRL and the new accounting standards, the
objectives of Pernambuco´s cost system are to:
       -   support high level and line management decision making in order to improve the
           quality of public spending;
       -   inform the management and development of budget forward estimates;
       -   enable greater transparency in social accountability; and
       -   promote the dissemination of the culture of cost information as a way of satisfying
           increased social demands for public services without increasing public expenditure.
        It should be noted that, due to the early stage of system development, no lower level
regulation exists to institute the SIC/PE and mandate its use.




33
     Decree 36.952 of August 11, 2011.

                                                                                             115
4.3. Methodology
        The conceptual cost model was developed by SEFAZ/PE (with GT CUSTOS
backing) and supported by an external consultant hired with resources from an IADB loan.
The conceptual model is the result of several structured interviews with government agency
officials and internal workshops aimed at consensus building.
        The main user of the SIC/PE was defined as the senior management of the State
Government: Secretaries and heads of government agencies. The main purpose of the cost
information system is to compare similar government units and to understand the cost
differentials between them. At present, system implementation is targeted at this specific
audience, although interviews revealed the need for, and the benefits of, providing cost
information at the line manager level. It was decided therefore to divide the information
generated by the SIC-PE into two different perspectives: corporate and agency-specific.
        The corporative perspective involves the SIC/PE generating cost information tailored
to the needs of senior management, with the aim of informing costs at the agency (or
departmental) level as well as at the function/sub-function, program, project or activity levels.
For a line manager at, for example, the Education Secretariat, detailed cost information about
schools can be invaluable.
        Meanwhile, the agency-specific perspective will allow the SIC/PE to generate cost
information that caters to the specific demands of these agencies and supports analysis on
productivity, efficiency, and resource effectiveness. This approach will enable costs
information to be provided on processes, sub-processes, products and services, e.g. specific
costs information for the Education Secretariat can include the costs of organizational units,
the costs of individual educational facilities (e.g. schools), costs per student, costs per
educational level (e.g. primary, secondary, etc.), costs of finalistic processes assigned to the
Education Secretariat (e.g. provision of primary education, school meals, etc.) and
administrative costs.
       The SIC/PE was developed to comply with certain information requirements, such as:
   -   relevance – cost information must influence users´ decisions;
   -   usefulness – the cost-benefit of possessing a costing system should be a positive gain
       for the state;
   -   opportunity – cost information should be readily available for supporting decision
       making;
   -   social value – cost information should allow more transparency and provide more
       evidence on how public resources are spent;
   -   reliability - the system should provide detailed information, supported by data
       published in accounting reports;
   -   specificity - information should be prepared in accordance with the specific purpose
       intended by its users;




                                                                                             116
   -   comparability - cost information and events should be recorded consistently and
       uniformly, allowing comparisons and benchmark exercises between different
       government agencies and subdivisions;
   -   adaptability – the system should adapt to the needs and expectations of various
       organizational units and their users; and
   -   granularity - the system should be able to produce detailed data at different
       aggregation levels by generating different reports, but without forgoing comparability.
        The cost object is designed to be flexible and tailored to a government agency´s
needs. Both cost accumulation methods (process and job-order costing) will be used. The
former will be used for public services (i.e. most of the cost objects), while the latter will be
employed for specific cases. The cost measurement method will rely mainly on actual data,
but estimates will also be used for budget projections.
       SIC/PE will use three different cost assignment methods. The direct tracing cost
assignment method will be used at the corporate perspective, while the ABC method will be
used at the agency-specific perspective, with the exception of the State Secretariat of Health
(SES/PE) which will use the absorption method already employed by the APURASUS
system developed by the Federal Government and used by SES/PE.
       The rationale for using three different cost assignment methods simultaneously
derives from the need to accommodate the competing demands of several state clients. For
example, SES/PE requires information at a more detailed level using the absorption method,
since this is the method used by the nationwide system (APURASUS) and to which
Pernambuco has adhered. The ABC method will be employed because certain government
agencies require more detailed information to suit their needs.
        The cost center structure is designed initially to replicate the state´s organizational
structure. The conceptual model also foresees the development of a cost accountancy chart
(more synthetic than the traditional accountancy chart) to classify resources according to their
economic type. Finally, the SIC/PE will use accrual accounting information as the basis for
generating cost information because, unlike the two other states, Pernambuco began
developing its cost information system after implementing the new public sector accountancy
standards that include accrual accounting.
       In practice, the SIC/PE will adopt a five-step approach to generate cost information.
These steps are summarized below (see also Figure 8):
   -   Costs are allocated to the cost centers that are responsible for managing them;
   -   Direct costs are allocated to products and services according to their use in the
       production of such services or products;
   -   The costs allocated in each cost center are linked to the processes and activities to
       which they contribute;
   -   To identify the cost drivers of each activity (which will also allow unit cost
       information to be obtained); and
   -   To allocate the activity costs to each product and service.

                                                                                             117
FIGURE 8 – SIC/PE FIVE STEP APPROACH TO COST ALLOCATION




Source: SEFAZ/PE

       No structured, direct relationship with the budget is foreseen at this stage. The budget
programs and subprograms will be cost objects and therefore will, in theory, allow for such
linkage in the future.
       Finally, regarding the periodicity of the cost reports, the SIC/PE will allow any
periodicity required by the client. The conceptual model however proposes a management
cycle involving reports issued monthly and the results analyzed and discussed within the
government agency and its departments on a monthly basis. The results would be analyzed at
the government level every three months.




                                                                                           118
FIGURE 9 – PROPOSED COST REPORTING AND MANAGEMENT CYCLE




Source: SEFAZ/PE


4.4.   Implementation Strategy
        Based on the conceptual design, SEFAZ/PE will establish a unit within the State
Treasury to take charge of implementing the cost system. This unit will be staffed with a
project coordinator, IT analysts and three cost analysts responsible for one Secretariat each.
At the agency level, this structure is complemented by a cost analyst located in the agency
accounting sector, and hierarchically accountable to SEFAZ/PE. The cost analysts will be
responsible for coordinating implementation of SIC/PE in their specific agencies and for
preparing reports on the project for submission to the cost director at the Treasury and GT
Custos.
        It is envisioned that the SIC/PE will be implemented in three stages of one full
calendar year each. Barring delays in implementation, the system is expected to be fully
operational by the end of 2016. The first stage involves implementing the following corporate
perspective tasks: ETL (Extract, Treat and Load), DW and definition of business and
processing rules. The first stage is also expected to include implementation of the agency-
specific perspective in six government agencies.
        The second stage will involve preparing the corporate perspective cost reports and
implementing the agency-specific perspective in a further five government agencies. After
completing this stage, the corporate perspective of the SIC-PE would be fully implemented
and operational. The third stage is expected to cover the implementation of the agency-
specific perspective in the remaining five agencies.


                                                                                          119
        In practice, the implementation of the SIC/PE will involve, at the outset, making the
necessary changes in the existing corporate transactional systems, i.e. the introduction of a
cost center and a budget action (budget program subdivision) field in two systems – SAD/RH
and PE-Integrado. These changes will enable the SIC/PE to receive cost information on
payroll, assets depreciation, services, per-diems and consumables. SEFAZ/PE will
subsequently need to establish routines to ensure regular updating of the source data.
        After the SIC/PE is created, costs will be visualized by the costs centers of the
administrative units (e.g. hospitals, schools, prisons, etc.).This will provide management with
a better picture for strategic and operational purposes. Furthermore, the costs centers of the
administrative units will be classified by activity (e.g. hospital procedures, elementary
schooling, prisoner rehabilitation, etc.), which will provide a more complete overview for
management operations.


4.5. Technology
        The SIC/PE is a transactional system that collects information from other State
corporate and structural IT systems. These are already being readjusted to meet the cost
center structure required by the system. The system will then construct a database using a
DW type analytical system designed for OLAP (Online Analytical Processing). The IT
architecture of the system comprises the following layers: data extraction, data processing
and loading, and business rules management.
       The state’s GFMIS (E-Fisco) is the main feeder system into the SIC/PE. However,
given the granular level of cost information desired, not enough E-Fisco data is available for
building the SIC/PE. Additional data therefore has to be obtained from other systems such as
SAD/RH (HR and payroll system) and PE-Integrado (procurement, assets and stocks system).
The only adaptation to the IT systems to date has been the creation of the cost center field in
some transactional systems, including in the SAD/RH (the most complicated).


4.6. Successful Experiences and Reported Problems
        The lessons learned from the development of the SIC/PE need to be regarded as
provisional since the system is still being implemented. Certain lessons can however be
drawn at this early stage.
        The first relates to the difficulty of initiating a new project during the administration´s
final year (2014) which coincided with the State capital´s hosting of the FIFA World Cup. To
further complicate matters, the former Secretary of Finance resigned in March, 2014 to run
for State Governor and the Governor also left office to run for President (of Brazil).
       The second problem concerns the difficulties involved in implementing the cost
center structure. To enable the SIC/PE to work correctly, all the transactional systems that
feed the SIC/PE need the same organizational structure. This was not the case in
Pernambuco, which meant that the organizational structure of different systems had to be



                                                                                               120
revised and harmonized in order to serve as cost centers. This also necessitated changes in the
IT systems (e.g. the payroll system), which led to delay in developing the SIC/PE.
       On a final note, it is important to draw attention to a major challenge: to seek to
change the public administration culture, which at present is predominantly focused on
budget accounting and reports as opposed to accrual accounting and cost information.




                                                                                           121
5. S
        Brazilian Government agencies have for long been mandated to produce cost
information. The Budget and Public Financial Management (PFM) legislation34 made this an
official requirement as far back as 1964, being reinforced by the 2000 Fiscal Responsibility
Law. Unfortunately, these important initiatives failed to produce practical results35.
        More recently, following a decision taken by the National Treasury Secretariat
(Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional – STN), responsible among other things for establishing
rules to consolidate public sector accounts and for bringing Brazilian Public Sector
Accounting Practices into line with International Public Sector Accounting Standards
(IPSAS), the need for cost accounting and cost information was definitively put on the PFM
reform agenda36. Subsequently, the CFC published a technical norm37 in 2011 outlining all
the methodological requirements of a cost information system and mandating all public sector
agencies to introduce such systems by end-2015. The STN simultaneously made a nationwide
effort to align accounting rules, including cost accounting and cost information, to IPSAS
(expected to be completed by 2015).
        Against this background, subnational governments in Brazil are now moving quickly
to adopt the new accounting standards and to establish cost accounting and cost information
systems. Given that these rules and timeframes are legally binding, and in view of Brazil´s
federative structure, the SNG shave become a natural experiment of different costing
approaches to public sector as well as source of real-life lessons in implementing and using
cost information.
        This chapter seeks to draw commonalities, and expose the differences; between the
three above SNG cases and to review the implications of using cost information. To this end,
the SNG approaches to external support, cost object definition, leadership, relationship with
the budget, IT requirements, and use of the cost information will be addressed, together with
other topics.
        TABLE 1 summarizes how key features were handled in each jurisdiction. The
following sections will group these features into common themes such as methodological
approaches, governance arrangements, implementation strategy, etc., for discussing in more
detail. The choice of states reported on here was based on the developmental stage of the cost
information system in each state, the soundness of the approaches and Bank knowledge of,
and engagement with PFM activities.
Some initial findings are listed below:


34
   Federal Law 4.320/1964.
35
   It should be noted that despite the non-existence of lower level guidelines or any binding implementation
schedule, the State of Bahia and the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro developed and implemented a cost
information system in 2003 and 2000 respectively.
36
   Mr. Nelson Machado, Deputy Minister of Finance at that time was instrumental in this initiative. An
accountant by training, Mr. Machado´s PhD dissertation on the implementation of cost accounting in the public
sector included a practical proposal for the state of São Paulo.
37
   NBCTSP (Normas Brasileiras de Contabilidade Aplicadas ao Setor Público ) 16.11. Available at
www.cfc.org.br.

                                                                                                          122
   -     Stewardship of the process heavily influences its outcomes. When the stewardship of
         the process is dependent on a single professional group and its members do not
         possess the appropriate skills mix, the use of cost information tends to fall short of its
         potential. For example, some accountants regard accrual accounting as a pre-requisite
         for generating cost information, and tend to overemphasize the need for exact
         information rather than that which is simply “good enough?. On the other hand, line
         agencies´ staff might support cost information that is probably not methodologically
         sound. Therefore, rather than having accountants or other professionals leading the
         development of the cost information effort (with their opinions prevailing), it is
         important to set up a multidisciplinary team, led by people with the correct mix of
         skills, and to establish some sort of collegiate arrangement to guide and implement the
         project.
   -     The generation of cost information in the three states primarily responded to a legal
         requirement and to comply with STN instructions. In Pernambuco, cost information
         evolved as a spinoff from the accounting convergence working group, while in Rio
         Grande do Sul it emerged as an internal task undertaken by the accountancy
         department. Although São Paulo began developing costing information in response to
         demands from the Finance Secretariat (SEFAZ/SP) and control agencies regarding the
         juvenile correctional agency, with the strategic objective of improving expenditure
         quality, the State acknowledges that the overriding legal requirement was also a
         significant motivating force.
   -     How cost information will inform the budget process is not clearly defined. For
         example, in Pernambuco actual cost information will be presented on an accrual basis,
         while the budget itself will not be prepared on an accrual basis. Meanwhile, cost
         information in São Paulo lends itself more to budget use since is focused on budget
         program costing and is undergoing a revision of budget programs. There is however
         no formal routine or process in place for incorporating this information in funding
         decisions.
   -     Gradual implementation is the preferred option. None of the states surveyed adopted a
         “big-bang? approach, involving the costing system (covering all expenditure) being
         deployed government-wide as a single, one-off exercise.
   -     No existing costing approach could be transferred from other jurisdictions, which
         made it essential for all the SNG to harness external support, at least in the initial
         stages.
TABLE 1 – SUMMARY OF COSTING APPROACHES

                                São Paulo             Rio Grande do Sul                Pernambuco
Status                Partially implemented.      Partially Implemented. 10   Not Implemented.
                      Only 4 government           government agencies are     Methodological concept
                      agencies have implemented   pending and some small      designed and approved.
                      it on a pilot basis.        expenditure items as well   Implementation at very
                                                  as the program budget       initial stage.
                                                  view.
Support               Methodological and          Methodological support      Methodological support
                      implementation support      from two university         from Rio de Janeiro- based
                      from IMF and local          professors at the outset.   consultant hired using an

                                                                                                    123
                    university consultants hired                                   IADB loan for the
                    using IADB loan.                                               conceptual design.
Cost Object         Exclusive focus on public      Initial focus on                Planned focus on both
                    services (budget programs      government administrative       government structure and
                    subdivisions) and the          structure (e.g. secretaries,    budget programs, with
                    public service delivery        schools), not programs or       priority on the first.
                    units.                         service lines. Program
                                                   budget view is not yet
                                                   implemented.
Relationship with   Planned a prior revision of    No relationship planned at      Does not plan a revision of
budget              budget programs for each       the outset. Discussions are     budget programs.
                    government agency,             at present underway on
                    together with the              how to use cost
                    implementation of              information for budget
                    performance-informed           purposes.
                    budget, but Budget
                    Secretariat lagged behind.
Leadership          Senior managers of the         Special unit created in the     Treasury Department,
                    Financial Administration       Accountant and                  Secretariat of Finance.
                    Coordination (of the           Comptroller-General´s
                    Secretariat of Finance)        Office (Secretariat of
                                                   Finance)
Governance          Development overseen by        Autonomous development          Development overseen by
                    steering committee formed      by the Secretariat of           government-wide steering
                    by three Secretaries, plus     Finance.                        committee (the Costing
                    one member of the Budget                                       Working Group).
                    and Public Management
                    Secretariats in the task
                    team. Also early
                    involvement by line
                    Secretariats.
IT systems and      Analytical system, using       Transactional system            Transactional system that
requirements        the same DW tool used to       feeding into an analytical      collects information from
                    extract budget execution       system. Payroll system          other structural systems
                    data. Some changes were        required some changes,          and makes data available
                    needed in the transactional    and other systems were          through DW/OLAP. Few
                    systems.                       already developed               changes in the existing
                                                   simultaneously in               systems are needed, mainly
                                                   conformity with cost            related to cost centers.
                                                   information system.
Methodology         Direct tracing cost            Direct tracing cost             Direct tracing for costing
                    assignment                     assignment                      of more aggregate cost
                                                                                   objects and Activity Based
                                                                                   Costing (ABC) and
                                                                                   absorption for lower level
                                                                                   objects.
Users and           Decision makers                Several users and purposes      Primary user is senior
Purposes of cost    (Secretaries and middle        are formally listed, but not    management. Purpose is to
information         management makers) are         clear in practice.              compare similar
                    the primary users. Purpose                                     government units and
                    is to promote benchmark                                        understand cost
                    exercise and inform budget                                     differentials between them.
                    decisions.
Source of           Budget execution with          Budget execution with           Accrual accounting
information:        adjustments to generate        adjustments to generate
budget or accrual   cost information.              cost information.
accounting
Cost centers        Each administrative unit       Created a hierarchical          Cost center structure
                    was considered a cost          registry of cost centers that   replicates the State´s


                                                                                                             124
                    center and the cost center   is part of the cost    administrative structure.
                    structure was revised and    information system.
                    adjusted prior to the
                    generation of cost
                    information in each
                    agency.
 Tailored vs.       Cost system uses a general   No tailored needs      Cost system uses a general
 general approach   approach up to a certain     identified so far.     approach up to a certain
                    level. Beyond that, each                            level. Beyond that, an
                    agency can have                                     agency-specific
                    complementary solutions.                            perspective is developed
                                                                        within the cost system to
                                                                        cater to each agency´s
                                                                        requirements.


5.1. Status, Implementation Strategy and Support
        None of the three states have fully implemented their costing system. Progress on
implementation differs from one jurisdiction to another due to several reasons, ranging from
starting date to methodological approach and the level of government support.
        The State of Rio Grande do Sul already possesses an operational IT system to
generate cost information reports, but not all government agencies or cost resources are
included in the system. Furthermore, the state´s ability to cost program budgets and
subdivisions is still being developed. São Paulo, on the other hand, has developed a mature
costing methodology, applied on a pilot basis in four government agencies. Certain IT
systems changes have been made and pilot cost information reports have been produced
using Data Warehouse software. The system however needs to be rolled out to other
Secretariats, and the IT system needs to be officially approved and used more widely. Finally,
Pernambuco has only the conceptual model ready and is in the early stages of implementing
its IT system.
       Of the three states, Rio Grande do Sul has made most progress on implementation,
having started to develop its costing system back in 2004 (which explains its current more
advanced stage of development), while São Paulo and Pernambuco did not start until 2010
and 2011 respectively.
        This difference between the States can also be attributed to their different approaches:
São Paulo´s was more ambitious, while Rio Grande do Sul opted for a more modest
approach. São Paulo for example, envisaged a complete revision of its budget programs (the
responsibility of the SPDR/SP), prior to developing and implementing its costing system. São
Paulo also had three external organizations (IMF, FIPE and IADB) to support its efforts
during the process, while Rio Grande do Sul was confined to hiring two academics to help
kick-start system development. A further difference was that development of the system by
São Paulo involved three Secretariats (SEFAZ/SP, SPDR/SP and SGP/SP), while in Rio
Grande do Sul the costing system was developed internally at SEFAZ/RS. Finally, São Paulo
decided to cost primarily budget programs and their subdivisions (public services), opposing
a tradition of managing the budget by appropriation (expenditure items by economic
classification), rather than directly costing government units, as done by Rio Grande do Sul.

                                                                                                125
        The São Paulo approach required more preparation in terms of research and cultural
change, and it was also more coordination-intensive. Due to the latter, the São Paulo
approach was more dependent on broader political support from senior management and
accordingly suffered greater discontinuity during the government transition period. More
recently (in 201438) Pernambuco also reported delays due to the change of Governor and
Finance Secretary, which obliged the technical team to attract the new senior management´s
interest in the project.
         In the light of the above it is not surprising that the São Paulo cost information
system lags behind that of Rio Grande do Sul. It is worth noting however that the São Paulo
approach proved to be more effective in generating, harmonizing and disseminating know-
how among team members, as well as generating a number of technical reference documents
for system users and other stakeholders. A further positive result was to engage line agencies
at an early stage, instilling a cost management culture in them and ensuring that the cost
information produced was relevant and useful.
         Pernambuco has not established an operating cost information system to date - a
substantial delay by comparison with São Paulo´s (initiated only one year previously). While
the formal starting date was marked by the decree establishing the GT Custos, efforts were
concentrated primarily on adopting the new accounting standards and leaving the
development of the costing system for later. The final version of Pernambuco´s conceptual
cost information model did not appear until October 30, 2013.
        In terms of support, São Paulo benefited from more external support than the other
states. São Paulo has had three organizations supporting and/ or financing its efforts not only
at the design stage, but also during implementation, while both Rio Grande do Sul and
Pernambuco had methodological support only at the conceptual stage. Pernambuco also
received financial support from the IADB to develop the costing model. While this
substantial support benefited São Paulo´s exercise in terms of theoretical soundness it
hampered coordination and delayed deployment.
        As for implementation strategy, the three states took a broadly similar approach. They
all opted to implement the system gradually, particularly in terms of coverage of government
agencies. None of the states has yet implemented a fully operational system. Minor
differences of strategy include the following: in Rio Grande do Sul the cost resources are
being incorporated gradually in the system, meaning that the current cost information does
not yet capture 100 percent of the resources consumed, although it covers most of the
resources39; the scheduling of IT system development - Rio Grande do Sul and Pernambuco
decided to develop the system immediately after finalizing the conceptual model, while São
Paulo piloted the methodology for producing cost information prior to embarking on IT
system development (first version due in January, 2015); and, unlike the other two states, São


38
   In March 2014, the Secretary of Finance and the Governor stepped down in order to comply with the rules
governing elections to run for State Governor and President respectively. The election of the former Secretary of
Finance as Governor might result in a boost for system development.
39
   São Paulo currently has on average 85% of the resources accounted for in the system. However, it expects to
have 100% by the end of 2014 once the system has been officially launched.

                                                                                                             126
Paulo was the only one to test the fit of the cost information before designing and rolling out
the complete system.


5.2. Leadership and Governance Arrangements
        In all three states the Finance Secretariats took the lead role in developing the system;
however the responsibility for championing the development of the system within the
Secretariats and the degree of involvement of other government agencies throughout the
several stages of the project differed a lot from one State to another.
        In Rio Grande do Sul and Pernambuco, accountancy professionals were in charge of
project development, while in São Paulo it was in the hands of broader PFM professionals. In
Rio Grande do Sul, system development was spearheaded by the Accounting and
Comptroller-General´s Office, while in Pernambuco the responsibility fell to staff that had
been previously in charge of implementing the new accounting standards. In São Paulo, the
leadership started with the office of the Secretary of Finance, passing then to the
Coordination of Financial Administration 40 , which handles all PFM-related issues in the
state).
        The different management approaches are producing different outcomes. The São
Paulo system (SCSP/SP) for example is at a more advanced stage, with, has much more
direct management applicability than the Rio Grande do Sul one. This can be attributed to the
fact that development of the latter system focused more on complying with the legal
requirement and strict adherence to accounting standards, while the former was targeted at
promoting cost effective public policy decision making.
        The São Paulo case provides a good lesson on the benefit of having a
multidisciplinary team to develop the cost information system. While it is essential to have
accountants on the team (guardians of the cost accountancy methodology), it is equally
important to include other PFM professionals and line agency staff given that they know the
type of cost information needed and how best to use it. The key is to create a balance between
obtaining timely and useful information and information that reflects the highest accounting
standards.
       More important than the discussion of whom should lead the cost information efforts -
accountants or other professionals, is the discussion of the required skills profile of the
professionals involved in project design and management. Brazil suffers from a shortage of
accountancy graduates specialized in public sector business, and it is difficult to find existing
public sector accountants with the right set of skills. Other problems include the differences
between public and private sector accounting rules and the low penetration of managerial
accounting among public sector professionals.
       As for governance arrangements, the three states take markedly different approaches.
Rio Grande do Sul´s is more autonomous while São Paulo´s is more collegiate (Pernambuco
is somewhere in the middle). As already noted, Rio Grande do Sul´s cost information system
40
  CAF’s role includes budget and financial execution, debt management, accountancy and payroll. Planning and
budgeting are not part of CAF’s mandate.

                                                                                                        127
was developed internally in CAGE, while São Paulo benefited from the direct input by two
other Secretariats at the conceptual stage and by four line government agencies at the pilot
stage. Finally, the staff responsible for the cost information system in Pernambuco (SIC/PE)
were accountable to GT Custos, a multi-agency steering committee.
        These choices produced different outcomes. The autonomous approach chosen by Rio
Grande do Sul enabled it to establish an operating cost system before the other states, but this
was achieved at the cost of low system dissemination and usage: other agencies were invited
to familiarize themselves with the system and assess the usefulness of the cost information
for their own purposes only after the system began producing cost information.
        São Paulo´s arrangements were markedly different. The state´s collegiate approach
entailed a “work in progress? cost information system, even after four years of development,
though even at the pilot stage the cost information reports that were produced enabled some
government agencies to make decisions that improved the cost-effectiveness of their
programs.
       Development of the costing system in Pernambuco is still at an early stage and it is
not possible to assess how the state´s approach will influence the outcome. One can only
hypothesize based on the experience of the more advanced cases of São Paulo and Rio
Grande do Sul.


5.3. Methodological Issues
        The three states do not differ noticeably in terms of accountancy methodology. All
have largely or exclusively adopted the accumulation method by process, an actual cost data
cost measurement method and the direct tracing assignment method. It is worth noting that all
three states rejected any cost proration solution. In other words, costs are directed to the cost
objects exactly according to their contribution and are not assumption-based.
        Regarding the cost assignment method chosen, Pernambuco represents a minor
exception: it will use the same direct tracing method for the corporate perspective of SIC/PE
as the other two states, but will use other methods such as (mainly) ABC (Activity Based
Costing) at the agency-specific perspective. The absorption costing method will also be used
for the Health Secretariat.
        This basket of methods to be applied by Pernambuco calls attention to another
characteristic: the dual approach of the state´s cost information system. All the states
acknowledge that line agencies have cost information requirements that might involve work
at a very detailed level and that do not warrant inclusion in a corporate cost information
system. The solution found by São Paulo has been to allow these agencies to develop and use
other cost solutions as well as the corporate cost information system. The latter solution is not
intended to substitute or compete with the state-wide cost information system, but to
complement the former by unearthing the information available.
       Pernambuco however decided to incorporate such detailed cost information
requirements in its system by creating an agency-specific perspective in the SIC/PE, resulting


                                                                                             128
in all cost information being generated by a single system. It is expected that by the end of
2016 all the government agencies will have implemented this layer of the system and will be
able to retrieve the more detailed cost information needed for lower level decision making.
        A further important methodological difference between the three states relates to the
primary cost object chosen. Pernambuco and Rio Grande do Sul both decided to use initially
the government organizational structure as a cost object and subsequently cost budget
functions and programs 41 . São Paulo has taken the exact opposite approach, starting by
choosing public services (a subdivision of the budget programs) as the cost object.
Organizational units were identified as cost centers primarily to identify the providers of the
public services to be costed.
        This means that initially Rio Grande do Sul and Pernambuco will have information
about the cost of a school, prison or Secretariat, while São Paulo will be in a position to
retrieve the costs of primary education or the health services provided to prisoners. In
addition, São Paulo will have the same cost information by government unit as the other two
states, but only SP will be able (at least in this first stage) to have cost information by public
service and government unit simultaneously. In practice, São Paulo will know the cost of
providing primary education at a specific school. In addition, because the program budget
and cost center structures were revised, this information will be relevant to decision makers.
        The first step taken by Rio Grande do Sul and Pernambuco was to establish a cost
center structure, defining the cost center at the lowest cost accumulation level and the way in
which costs are aggregated to higher cost centers. This involved two decisions: firstly to
decide the level at which cost would be recorded and the hierarchy of the cost centers, e.g.
should hospitals be the lowest cost center level at which cost is recorded, or should a hospital
department (A&E unit, intensive care unit, etc) be the lowest level? Secondly, should
hospitals or their departments be consolidated regionally or according to their medical
specialties?
         In São Paulo´s case the first step was to establish the service matrix that would select
the public services to be costed. These service matrixes are linked to the program budget
structure (given that the public service is a subdivision of government budget programs), as
well as to the organizational structure of the state. Cost centers which also represent the
administrative structure of the state were linked to the public services provided by the state.
In this way the SCSP/SP is able to provide firstly the actual cost of the public service and
then it can drill down or compare the exact cost of that specific public service between all the
government units (or cost centers) that provide that service. As a corollary, the SCSP/SP can
also provide the cost by government unit, but such information is of limited use since it
already possesses more detailed information of public service costs per government unit.
        Pernambuco and Rio Grande do Sul record costs at the government unit level (e.g.
schools or hospitals), but at this initial stage the service provided and the cost center are not
linked. This makes cost comparisons and benchmark exercises difficult: these can only be
done if a one on one linkage exists between the service and cost center or if cost centers are

41
     Both states have however chosen not to revise their current program budget structure.

                                                                                              129
very similar. In practice, comparisons can be made in cases where each school provides only
primary or secondary education, or if the schools provide both levels of education in the same
proportion.
         The methodological approach developed by São Paulo is clearly more sophisticated
than that of the other two states. It uses managerial techniques (the 5P approach) to organize
its costing methodology, and its conceptual model consists of four models.


5.4. Technology
        The technological aspect is the least controversial. All three states adopted virtually
the same IT architecture, requirements and software solutions. The costing system is an
analytical system (São Paulo) or a transactional system feeding into an analytical system (Rio
Grande do Sul and Pernambuco). The information is retrieved and made available through a
Data Warehouse system, preferentially the same as that for retrieving data from the GFMIS,
thus reducing training requirements for system users.
        The main data source for the costing system was the GFMIS. However in all the states
the GFMIS information had to be supplemented by data from other systems such as the
human resources and payroll, procurement and stock systems. Occasionally information from
agency- specific systems was needed. The decision to retrieve data from the existing IT
systems was justified by all three states in order to avoid double data entry and ensure
consistency.
       In all three states a number of changes had to be made in the existing IT systems to
ensure retrieval of new data from corporate system users. These changes mainly involved
including some information fields such as cost center and budget program subdivisions in all
systems, assuring a common denominator among them.
        All the IT needed for implementing the costing system was developed internally by
State- owned IT enterprises, chosen not on efficiency grounds but because, being responsible
for the GFMIS, they possess knowledge-specific assets that made outsourcing of IT system
development unviable in terms of cost and time.


5.5. Users, Purposes and Relationship with Budget
         It is difficult to ascertain to what extent the costing information systems were
developed simply to respond to a legal requirement, or if these were mainly autonomous
initiatives taken by the three states. All respondents unanimously confirmed that the legal
requirement was instrumental in kick-starting system development, in engaging the interest of
senior management and in convincing line managers to participate in developing and
implementing the systems.
        The question arises of whether the efforts to produce cost information are sustainable.
If the cost information system was developed solely as a response to a legal requirement, it is
likely that it will lack substantial impact and will be useless and outdated in the longer term.
It is essential therefore that the governments of the three states (as well as any other State

                                                                                            130
Governments aiming to produce cost information), have a clear view of the potential users
and uses of the collected data, eschewing mere formality and preferably using it in planning,
budgeting and procurement processes etc, thus ensuring the sustainability of the system.
        The main users of the system in São Paulo and Pernambuco are defined as senior
government managers, e.g. Secretaries, and middle management practitioners responsible for
decision making at government-run hospitals and correctional facilities, etc. In Pernambuco´s
case, this audience will be served by the agency-specific perspective of the SIC/PE.
        The main users of the costing system in Rio Grande do Sul to date are the sectorial
costing groups established in the Secretariats that have implemented CUSTOS/RS, although
systematic use of the cost information generated by the system to senior management appears
to be lacking.
       The only system clearly linked to the budget was the SCSP/SP (São Paulo), which
focused on budget programs subdivision (public services) as cost objects and made system
deployment conditional on a revision of the program budget structure. In Rio Grande do Sul,
although the system is already operational (one of its stated objectives is to inform budget
decisions) this has not been done. Discussions are now underway between SEFAZ/RS and
SEPLAG/RS to assess whether cost information can be used to inform the budget process.
        The systems aim inter alia to inform budget decisions (as in the case of São Paulo),
and to conduct benchmark exercises among government units (São Paulo and Pernambuco).
Finally, there are other uses to the cost information rather than just serving as an input to
budgeting, such as project selection, procurement, setting government’s fees, prices and
program evaluations as noted in (IFAC, 2000), that has not been mentioned by any
Government.


5.6. Conclusion
        This survey is not intended as a complete and authoritative review of the costing
approaches used by the States of São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul and Pernambuco. It is a first
attempt to review cost information efforts by some of Brazil´s leading states, and to compare
their approach in terms of results obtained to date. We acknowledge that a more complete
survey would involve a more detailed questionnaire, followed by interviews but, due (mainly)
to the “work-in-progress? status of the initiatives, we consider that any attempt to produce a
more definitive assessment at the present moment could be regarded as premature. It follows
that our conclusions are provisional.
        We believe nevertheless that this review does constitute valuable material for other
state governments that are initiating or considering implementing a cost information system.
We hope that it serves as a benchmark exercise for those that are in the process of
implementing a cost information system, as well as helping them to correct errors during
implementation. The review also describes a range of public sector costing efforts that do not
conform to the traditional Westminster Medium Term Expenditure Framework model.



                                                                                          131
       Two key questions need to be understood and answered before embarking on any
development: (i) who will use the cost information?; and (ii) what cost information is
needed? The answers to these two questions define two decisions regarding methodology and
implementation: defining the cost object and deciding who should manage and be involved in
the development and implementation of the system.
        In Rio Grande do Sul it was not clear who the main audience of the system was. As a
result the decision regarding the definition of the cost object was left to CAGE, resulting in
virtually no external support or consultation being provided for developing the system and
the system is not being used systematically at present. By contrast, São Paulo first identified a
clear use for the cost information, as well as prospective clients, followed by efforts to sell
the system to them and involve them from the early stages of the process. Although São
Paulo´s costing system is still at the pilot stage, it has already produced tangible results
(unlike Rio Grande do Sul).
        These key questions and the response given by these two states also lead to two other
key conclusions, which are firstly that the stewardship of the process substantially influences
its outcomes. If the process is left in the hands of a single professional group without the
correct skills mix, the cost information may not be used as fully as possible. Some
accountants, for example, tend to view accrual accounting as a pre-requisite for generating
cost information, and overemphasize the need for exact as opposed to “good enough?
information. On the other hand, line agency staffs might produce methodologically unsound
cost information. It is therefore important (rather than arguing over which type of
professionals, accountants or others, should be in charge) that the cost information team is
multidisciplinary, that its managers possess the right skills mix and that a collegiate
arrangement exists for guiding and implementing the project.
        Another key observation relates to the trade-off posed by the autonomous vis-à-vis the
collegiate approach. In Rio Grande do Sul, where system development and implementation
was managed by a single agency, the system progressed quicker than that of São Paulo,
where several different agencies needed coordinating. It is worth noting that the collegiate
approach requires more involvement by senior management, particularly by the agency
chiefs, and possibly, in addition, more robust support from the head of Government. It
remains to be seen whether Pernambuco, with its more collegiate approach (and less
coordination needed than São Paulo), is able to conciliate its collegiate approach with tight
deadlines (the state intends to have everything implemented within three years).
       This survey amply confirms that government-wide systems cannot be implemented
overnight. The preferred option was gradual implementation. None of the three states chose
to adopt a “big bang? approach to deploying a government-wide costing system covering all
expenditure.
       All three states are anxious to find ways of dealing with the cultural changes
stemming from the introduction of cost information. This is a challenge that involves decision
makers being convinced of the need for cost information, and line managers fully buying into
the concept rather than regarding cost information as simply one further level of control


                                                                                             132
introduced by central Secretariats. All three states agree that this is a difficult issue to which
none has found the solution.
        It is worth mentioning the importance of legal and/or regulatory support for cost
information systems. This is very much in line with Brazil´s codified tradition. All three
states acknowledged that the legal requirement to implement a costing system was a major
motivation for developing the system, although perhaps not the primary reason.
        On a final note, it is clear that although the methodological and IT choices taken by
the three states were fairly similar, it remains difficult to simply transfer the cost system from
one jurisdiction to another, because the better the cost system the more tailored to respond to
the managerial needs of a states it should be and thus system customization will always be
required.




                                                                                              133
6. GLOSSARY
  1. The first column contains the English name of the corresponding concept in
     Portuguese (second column).
  2. The first box in Column 3 contains the Portuguese version of the concept as used by
     the Brazilian Accountancy Board Standard of Cost Information Systems (NBCT
     16.11). If unavailable, the box is left blank (N.A) or the definition is extracted from
     material used in one of the case studies or originates from Federal Government
     sources. (GF).
  3. The IFAC definition (Column 3, box 2) is that used by the International Federation of
     Accountants in its IFAC, 2000 report.
  4. The FASAB definition Column 3, box 3) is that used by the Statement of Federal
     Financial Accounting Standards 4: Managerial Cost Accounting Standards and
     Concepts issued by the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board.

Cost     Centro de       Portuguese   RS: nível mais analítico de acumulação de valores (custos) do
Center   Custo                        subsistema de contabilidade de custos.
                                      GF: é o menor nível de alocação de recursos humanos,
                                      serviços materiais e patrimoniais, representando uma atividade
                                      (objeto de custeio) geradora de um produto (bem ou serviço).
                         IFAC         Responsibility center: an organizational unit headed by a
                                      manager or a group of managers who are responsible for its
                                      activities.
                         FASAB        Responsibility center: an organizational unit headed by a
                                      manager or a group of managers who are responsible for its
                                      activities. Responsibility centers can be measured as revenues
                                      centers (accountable for revenues/sales only), cost centers
                                      (accountable for cost/ expenses only), profit centers
                                      (accountable for revenues and costs) and investment centers
                                      (accountable for investments, revenues and costs).
                         Proposed     It is the lowest level of allocation of resources (staff,
                         Definition   services, materials and assets) and thus the lowest level of
                                      cost accumulation. It can be a cost object or have its costs
                                      traced to other cost objects such as a public service. The
                                      cost center or the manager of the cost center does not need
                                      to be responsible for the allocation decision of its resources
                                      as well as holding responsibility for its activities as
                                      understood by the broader concept of responsibility centers.
Cost     Direcionador    Portuguese   N.A.
Driver   de custo        IFAC         Any factor that causes a change in the cost of an activity or
                                      output resulting in the activity consuming fewer or greater
                                      amounts of resources.
                         FASAB        Any factor that causes a change in the cost of an activity or
                                      output.
                         Proposed     The definition adopted in this report follows the proposed
                         Definition   definition by IFAC: Any factor that causes a change in the
                                      cost of an activity or output resulting in the activity
                                      consuming fewer or greater amounts of resources.
Cost     Objeto de       Portuguese   É a unidade que se deseja mensurar e avaliar os custos. Os
Object   custo                        principais objetos de custos são identificados a partir de
                                      informações dos subsistemas orçamentários e patrimonial.


                                                                                           134
                          IFAC         An activity, output or item whose cost is to be measured. In a
                                       broad sense, a cost object can be an asset account, organization,
                                       function, a task, a product, a service or a customer.
                          FASAB        Refers to an activity or item whose cost is to be measured. In a
                                       broad sense, a cost object can be an organizational division,
                                       program, activity, task, product, service or customer. However,
                                       the purpose of cost accounting by a responsibility segment is to
                                       measure the cost of its outputs. Thus, the final cost objects of a
                                       responsibility segment are its outputs.
                          Proposed     It is the unit whose cost is going to be measured and
                          Definition   evaluated. It can be an organizational unit, a government
                                       function, budget program or action as well as a task, a
                                       public service or even a customer.
Direct     Custo Direto   Portuguese   É todo custo que é identificado ou associado diretamente ao
Cost                                   objeto de custo.
                          IFAC         A cost that is specifically identified with a single cost object, or
                                       the cost of resources directly consumed by an activity. Direct
                                       costs are assigned to activities by direct tracing of units of
                                       resources consumed by individual activities.
                          FASAB        The cost of resources directly consumed by an activity. Direct
                                       costs are assigned to activities by direct tracing of units of
                                       resources consumed by individual activities. A cost that is
                                       specifically identified with a single object.
                          Proposed     A cost that is specifically identified with a single cost object
                          Definition   or the cost of resources directly consumed by an activity.
Indirect   Custo          Portuguese   É o custo que não pode ser identificado diretamente ao objeto
Cost       Indireto                    do custo, devendo sua apropriação ocorrer por meio da
                                       utilização de bases de rateio ou direcionadores de custos.
                          IFAC         A cost that cannot be identified specifically with, or traced to a
                                       given cost object in an economically feasible way.
                          FASAB        The costs of resources that are jointly or commonly used to
                                       produce two or more types of outputs but that are not
                                       specifically identifiable with any of the outputs.
                          Proposed     A cost that cannot be identified specifically with or traced
                          Definition   to a given cost object in an economically feasible way, whose
                                       assignment should be carried out through proration or the
                                       identification of cost drivers.
Accumu     Sistemas de    Portuguese   Corresponde à forma como os custos são acumulados e
lation     acumulação                  apropriados aos bens e serviços e outros objetos de custos e
Method                                 está relacionado ao fluxo físico e real da produção. Os
                                       sistemas de acumulação de custos no setor público ocorrem
                                       por ordem de serviço ou produção e de forma contínua. Por
                                       ordem de serviço ou produção é o sistema de acumulação que
                                       compreende especificações predeterminadas do serviço ou
                                       produto demandado, com tempo de duração limitado. De forma
                                       contínua é o sistema de acumulação que compreende
                                       demandas de caráter continuado e são acumulados ao longo
                                       tempo.
                          IFAC         Job order costing: a method of cost accounting that accumulates
                                       costs for individual jobs or lots. A job may be a service or a
                                       manufactured item, such as the repair of equipment or the
                                       treatment of a patient in a hospital.
                                       Process costing: a method of cost accounting that first collects
                                       costs by processes and then allocates the total costs of each

                                                                                                 135
                                    process equally to each unit of output flowing through it during
                                    an accounting period.
                       FASAB        Cost accumulation is the process of collecting cost data in an
                                    organized way. The standard requires costs to be accumulated
                                    by responsibility segments. Job order costing is a costing
                                    methodology that accumulates and assigns costs to discrete
                                    jobs. The word “jobs? refer to products, projects, assignments
                                    or a group of similar outputs. Process costing is a method of
                                    cost accounting that first collects costs by processes and then
                                    allocates the total cost of each process equally to each unit of
                                    output flowing through it during an accounting period.
                       Proposed     The way costs are accumulated and assigned to cost objects.
                       Definition   Costs can be accumulated according to two methods: job
                                    order or process. Job order costing is a costing methodology
                                    that accumulates and assigns costs to discrete jobs. The
                                    word “jobs? refer to products, projects, assignments or a
                                    group of similar outputs. Process costing is a method of cost
                                    accounting that first collects costs by processes and then
                                    allocates the total cost of each process equally to each unit
                                    of output flowing through it during an accounting period.
Cost     Sistemas de   Portuguese   Está associado ao modelo de mensuração e desse modo podem
Measur   custeio                    ser custeados os diversos agentes de acumulação de acordo
ement                               com diferentes unidades de medida, dependendo das
Method                              necessidades dos tomadores de decisões. No âmbito do sistema
                                    de custeio, podem ser utilizadas as seguintes unidades de
                                    medida: custo-histórico, custo-corrente, custo estimado; e
                                    custo-padrão.
                       IFAC         N.A.
                       FASAB        Actual cost: an amount determined on the basis of cost incurred
                                    including standard cost properly adjusted for applicable
                                    variance.
                       Proposed     The way costs are measured in monetary terms. The
                       Definition   applicable alternatives are the following: historical cost,
                                    actual cost, estimated cost and standard cost.
Cost     Método de     Portuguese   Refere-se ao método de apropriação de custos e está associado
Assign   Custeio                    ao processo de identificação e associação do custo ao objeto
ment                                que está sendo custeado. Os principais métodos de custeio são:
Method                              direto; variável; por absorção; por atividade; pleno.
                       IFAC         A process that identifies specific costs with programs, outputs,
                                    activities or other cost objects. There are three appropriate
                                    methods of cost assignment, listed here in order of preference:
                                    (a) directly tracing costs whenever economically feasible; (b)
                                    cause and effect when determinable; and (c) allocating costs on
                                    a reasonable and consistent basis.
                       FASAB        Cost assignment is a process that identifies cost with activities,
                                    outputs or other cost objects. In a broad sense, costs can be
                                    assigned to processes, activities, organizational divisions,
                                    products and services. There are three methods of cost
                                    assignment: (a) directly tracing costs wherever economically
                                    feasible; (b) cause-and-effect; (c) allocating costs on a
                                    reasonable and consistent basis.
                       Proposed     The way costs are assigned to a specific cost object. In the
                       Definition   Brazilian context, five specific costing methods are
                                    accepted: “direto?, “variável?, absorption cost, by activity

                                                                                             136
                                     and full. In the international realm, three more generic
                                     approaches are accepted: (a) directly tracing costs; (b)
                                     cause and effect and (c) ) allocating costs on a reasonable
                                     and consistent basis.
Direct    Custeio       Portuguese   É o custeio que aloca todos os custos – fixos e variáveis –
Tracing   Direto                     diretamente a todos os objetos de custo sem qualquer tipo de
                                     rateio ou apropriação.
                        IFAC         N.A.
                        FASAB        Direct tracing applies to resources that are directly used in the
                                     production of an output. The method of direct cost tracing
                                     usually relies on the observation, counting, and/or recording of
                                     the consumption of resources units, such as staff hours or days
                                     that are spent on a project or assignment, or gallons of fuel
                                     consumed in a transport mission.
                        Proposed     According to the Brazilian Standards, the cost assignment
                        Definition   method assigns all costs – fixed and variable – directly to
                                     each cost object without any cost proration. In this respect,
                                     it is similar to the direct tracing method preferred and
                                     recommended by IFAC. However, the direct tracing one
                                     does not call for tracing of all costs. In practice, in the case
                                     studies surveyed, all the jurisdictions were not tracing all
                                     costs. Therefore they could not be strictly classified as using
                                     the “custeio direto? method. Nevertheless, for the purposes
                                     of this report “direct tracing? will be used as the equivalent
                                     of “custeio direto? and the requirement that all costs be
                                     traced will be relaxed.
Variabl   Custeio       Portuguese   Que apropria aos produtos ou serviços apenas os custos
e         Variável                   variáveis e considera os custos fixos como despesas do
Costing                              período.
Method                  IFAC         N.A.
                        FASAB        N.A.
                        Proposed     This method assigns only the variable costs – costs that vary
                        Definition   with the production level - to the cost objects and considers
                                     the fixed costs as period expenses.
(Full)    Custeio por   Portuguese   Que consiste na apropriação de todos os custos de produção
Absorpt   Absorção                   aos produtos e serviços.
ion                     IFAC         N.A.
Costing                 FASAB        (Full) Absorption cost is a method of costing that assigns
Method                               (absorbs) all labor, material and service/manufacturing facilities
                                     and support costs to products or other cost objects.
                        Proposed     A cost assignment method that assigns (absorbs) all
                        Definition   production costs to the respective cost objects. The costs
                                     assigned include those that do and do not vary with the level
                                     of activity performed. It is compatible with cost proration
                                     and the use of cost drivers. Depending on the references
                                     used, it can be used interchangeably with the full cost
                                     concept. However, for the purpose of this report, the
                                     absorption costing method will not require the assignment
                                     of all costs and therefore will be referred only as absorption
                                     costing method. The assignment of all costs will be referred
                                     to the full costing method.
Full      Custeio       Portuguese   N.A.
Costing   Pleno ou      IFAC         The sum of all costs required by a cost object, including the
Method    Integral                   costs of activities performed by other entities, regardless of

                                                                                             137
                                     funding sources.
                        FASAB        The total amount of resources used to produce the output. More
                                     specifically, the full cost of an output produced by a
                                     responsibility segment is the sum of: (1) the costs of the
                                     resources consumed by the responsibility segment that directly
                                     or indirectly contributes to the output, and (2) the costs of
                                     identifiable supporting services provided by other
                                     responsibilities segments within the reporting entity and by
                                     other reporting entities.
                        Proposed     It is the cost assignment method that assigns absolutely all
                        Definition   costs to the cost object. It is compatible with cost proration
                                     and the use of cost drivers.
Activity   Custeio      Portuguese   Que considera que todas as atividades desenvolvidas pelas
Based      Baseado em                entidades são geradoras de custos e consomem recursos.
Costing    Atividades                Procura estabelecer a relação entre atividades e os objetos de
– ABC                                custo por meio de direcionadores de custos que determinam
                                     quanto de cada atividade é consumida por eles.
                        IFAC         A cost accounting method that measures the cost and
                                     performance of process-related activities and cost objects. It
                                     assigns cost to cost objects based on their use of activities, and
                                     recognizes the causal relationship of cost drivers to activities.
                        FASAB        A cost accounting method that measures the cost and
                                     performance of process-related activities and cost objects. It
                                     assigns cost to cost objects, such as products and customers,
                                     based on their use of activities. It recognizes the causal
                                     relationship of cost drivers to activities.
                        Proposed     It is a cost assignment method that measures the cost and
                        Definition   performance of process-related activities and cost objects. It
                                     assigns cost to cost objects based on their use of activities,
                                     and recognized the causal relationship of cost drivers to
                                     activities.
Commo      Custos       Portuguese   N.A.
n Cost     Comuns       IFAC         The cost of resources employed jointly in the production of two
                                     or more outputs that cannot be directly traced to any of those
                                     outputs.
                        FASAB        The term “common costs? refers to the cost of maintaining and
                                     operating facilities and other resources that cannot be directly
                                     traced to any one of the activities or outputs that share the
                                     resources.
                        Proposed     The cost of resources jointly employed in the production of
                        Definition   two or more outputs that cannot be directly traced to any of
                                     those outputs.




                                                                                              138
CONSELHO FEDERAL DE CONTABILIDADE (CFC), 2012. Normas Brasileiras de
Contabilidade: contabilidade aplicada ao setor público: NBC T 16.11. Brasilia, 2012.

FEDERAL ACCOUNTANCY ADVISORY BOARD (FASAB), 2014. FASAB Handbook of
Federal Accounting Standards and Other Pronouncements, as Amended. Washington, June
2014.

FORD, R.; HEISLER, W.; McCREARY, W. Leading change with the 5-P Model. Cornell
Hospitality Quarterly. April 2008.

FUNDAÇÃO INSTITUTO DE PESQUISAS ECONÔMICAS, 2012. Public Services Cost
Information System of the State of São Paulo: First Version of the Conceptual Costing
Model. São Paulo, April 2012.

INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF ACCOUNTANTS (IFAC), 2000. Perspective on
Cost Accounting for Government: International Public Sector Study. New York, September
2000.

PERNAMBUCO STATE GOVERNMENT, 2013. Final Report on the Design of the
Conceptual Model of the Cost Management System of the State of Pernambuco. Recife,
October 2013.

PERNAMBUCO STATE GOVERNMENT, 2014. Cost Management System. Presentation
made at the Workshop on Public Sector Cost Experiences held at the Rio de Janeiro State
Secretariat of Finance. Rio de Janeiro, July 2014.

PRYOR, M.G.; WHITE, C.J.; TOOMBS, L.A. What Management and Quality Theories Are
Best for Small Businesses?. Journal of Management and Marketing Research. 1994.

RIO GRANDE DO SUL STATE GOVERNMENT, 2014. Cost Information System of the
State of Rio Grande do Sul. Presentation made at the Workshop on Public Sector Cost
Experiences held at the Rio de Janeiro State Secretariat of Finance. Rio de Janeiro, July 2014.

SÃO PAULO STATE GOVERNMENT, 2014. Public Services Cost Information System of
the State of São Paulo. Presentation made at the Workshop on Public Sector Cost
Experiences held at the Rio de Janeiro State Secretariat of Finance. Rio de Janeiro, July 2014.




                                                                                           139
