 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14807

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 09/10/2015

                 Country: Brazil
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                     Yes     No
                 Series ID:
           First Project ID : P121590                                               Appraisal              Actual
            Project Name: Third Minas Gerais           Project Costs (US$M):                     450                  450
                              Development
                              Partnership Dpl
     L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      450                  450
          Sector Board:       Public Sector             Cofinancing (US$M):                        0                    0
                              Governance
             Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                 03/29/2012
                                                                 Closing Date:            01/31/2014           01/31/2014
            Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (50%); Other social services (15%); General
                             education sector (15%); General industry and trade sector (10%); General energy sector
                             (10%)
            Theme(s):        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (30%); Managing for
                             development results (20%); Environmental policies and institutions (20%); Social safety nets
                             (20%); Education for all (10%)
Evaluator:                    Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                Group:
                                                      Coordinator:
Moritz Piatti                 Mauricio Carrizosa      Lourdes N. Pagaran       IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Program Document (PD, p.2) states that the objective is to deepen the Government’s innovative management
model, strengthen its budget management, and sectoral policy management in the areas of social inclusion,
environmental management and metropolitan governance. Accordingly, the assessment of efficacy considers five
sub-objectives:

1.         Deepen Minas Gerais’s innovative management model;
2.         Strengthen Minas Gerais’s budget management;
3.         Strengthen Minas Gerais’s sectoral policy management in social inclusion;
4.         Strengthen Minas Gerais’s sectoral policy management in environmental management;
5.         Strengthen Minas Gerais’s sectoral policy management in metropolitan management.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

       The program supported four policy areas:

       Policy Area I: Strengthening public sector and budgetary management
       This policy area aimed at deepening the Government’s innovative management model, strengthening its budget
       management, and promoting greater citizen participation. Prior actions include the establishment and
       operationalization of 22 Strategic Management and Innovation Units; adopting the Integrated Financial
       Management System’s Budget Programming Module (SIAFI/MG) for all spending units; and piloting and
   operationalizing regional committees to increase the participatory process for citizen engagement.


   Policy Area II: Promoting social inclusion
   Promoting social inclusion was considered important in order to address rural poverty, and the large variance in
   extreme poverty rates across the municipalities. Supporting policy actions include a co-financing structure for the
   provision of the Social Safety Net (Piso Mineiro de Assistência Social); collecting data on and increasing
   knowledge of conditions in poor municipalities; and improving in public school management throughout the State
   by adopting merit based selection of regional school superintendents and directors.


   Policy Area III: Increasing environmental sustainability
   Minas Gerais is among Brazil’s largest states with vast environmental resources. This policy area aimed at
   improving the environmental sustainability through the establishment of a sub-secretariat for environmental
   management and regularization and a sub-secretariat for environmental control and inspection. Secondly the
   program encouraged the GOMG to adopt measures to encourage forest plantation within its territory to supply
   raw input to industries located in the state.


   Policy Area IV: Developing a metropolitan governance framework
   The operation supported the development of a metropolitan governance framework. Disbursement was
   conditional on adopting an Integrated Regional Development Master Plan (PDDI) for the metropolitan region of
   Belo Horizonte.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The program provided US$ 450 million to the state of Minas Gerais. There were no borrower contributions. It was
   appraised on March 29, 2012 approved by the Board on July 26, 2012, and became effective on December 10,
   2012. The single tranche operation was disbursed in full upon effectiveness, and the program was closed as
   scheduled on January 31, 2014. There were no extensions, revisions, or delays.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   IEG assessed the relevance of objectives as Substantial.

   The objective was relevant at project appraisal and remained so until project closure. The program addressed
   key challenges the State was facing regarding public sector management, social inclusion, environmental
   sustainability, and metropolitan governance, with possible high returns from well-designed reform actions.
   Assisting the Government in its innovative management model was timely and critical given the State’s efforts to
   apply management reforms more effectively through the results-based management reform program. Despite
   significant gains in poverty eradication over the last decade progress remains uneven across municipalities,
   which justifies a focus on social inclusion. Further, Minas Gerais produced 60 percent of Brazil’s iron and steel
   and most of the charcoal used for energy came from illegal deforestation of the Cerrado biome, making it a
   critical environmental challenge. Lastly, reaching a high level of coordination among state and municipal
   government stakeholders was seen as a necessary requirement for improving the quality of public services in
   urban areas. The Bank conducted analytical work in support of engagement in these areas, including a Public
   Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment from 2009, a 2009 poverty study, a 2011 education report,
   as well as a 2011 IEG assessment of World Bank engagement at the decentralized level.

   The operation was well aligned with the Government’s Pluri Annual Plan (PPAG) 2012-2015 and the Brazil
   Country Partnership Strategy for 2012-2015. In particular the policy measures address four of the CPS pillars: (i)
   increasing the efficiency of public and private sector investments; (ii) improving the quality of public services for
   low income households; (iii) promoting regional economic development; and (iv) improving sustainable natural
   resource management and climate resilience.

   On the downside, the objectives would have benefited from being more targeted, streamlined, and outcome-
   oriented. The focus of the five objectives on management falls short of the welfare outcomes that management
   improvements ultimately aim to achieve. In one case, a welfare result (student performance) was somewhat
   removed from the action in its support.



b. Relevance of Design:

   IEG assessed the relevance of design as Modest.

   The causal chain, reflected in the policy matrix, generally linked objectives to outcome indicators for most policy
   areas. Most prior actions had structural depth and could, under reasonable assumptions on implementation, lead
   to expected results. In particular strengthening results-based management and the budgeting process plausibly
   relates to improvements in public sector and budgetary management as reflected in the policy matrix. Social
   inclusion is plausibly supported through interventions in social protection management.

   On the downside, less emphasis was placed on environmental sustainability and developing a metropolitan
   governance framework, which were supported by fewer policy actions and reflected a broad and ambitious
   objective. Some of these policy actions were insufficiently concrete such as “the GOMG adopted measures to
   encourage forest plantation”. Furthermore, given an already (relatively) good performance in the education
   sector, actions in this area might be less effective than in others in improving social inclusion. Given the short
   term horizon of a stand-alone operation the choice of medium-to long term indicators such as measures of
   student performance were inappropriate.



4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To deepen the Government’s innovative management model , strengthen its budget management , and sectoral
   policy management in the areas of social inclusion , environmental management and metropolitan governance .

   This objective is broken down into five sub-objectives, as follows:

   Objective 1. To deepen the Government’s innovative management model . Modest.
   This objective to deepen the Government’s innovative management model was to be achieved by
   deconcentrating results-based management practices to line secretariats. By embedding authority in line
   secretariats’ operation units, the operation sought to enhance ownership of service delivery teams. While the
   operation decentralized management through the creation of management units in line secretariats, there is no
   indication of how this contributed to the effectiveness of results-based management in the public sector.

   As the results indicator, the project monitored the share of strategic programs with execution rates above 85%.
   This share increased from the baseline of 61 percent in 2012 to 89 percent in 2014, thereby surpassing the target
   of 63 percent. However, while budget execution rates measure program implementation, they are insufficient as
   measures of effectiveness of the results-based management practices and do not indicate the extent to which the
   decentralized arrangement of the results-based model worked better than the centralized arrangement that
   preceded it.

   Objective 2. To strengthen the Government of Minas Gerais’ budget management . Substantial.
   In order to support the cost effectiveness and sustainability of investment projects, the State aimed ensure that
   projects were adequately reviewed and included reasonable assumptions; that data on contractual commitments
   were available; and that budget funds were used for their intended purpose. The DPL consequently supported
   the reform of budget execution, planning, and evaluation of investments. Furthermore, the operation supported
   citizen engagement in planning and policy implementation. Considerable progress was made on financial
   planning. This is suggested by the reduction in the percentage of budget items with contracts greater than the
   annual budget allocation from 19.12 percent in 2012 to 1.45 percent in 2014, substantially surpassing the target
   of 8.06 percent and indicating a reduced need to make ad hoc changes to the budget. Progress was also made
   on investment evaluation. The percentage share of government programs and projects for which screening and
   evaluation procedures are operational (value amount as share of total Multi-year Plan (PPA) increased from 0.79
   percent in 2012 to 6.24 percent in 2014, albeit missing the target of 9.12 percent. Progress regarding the
   engagement of citizen participation for identifying expenditure priorities was slow, with two unsuccessful pilots (a
   prior action, with very passive participation) launched in two regions. Accordingly the Government did not expand
   the pilots to other regions and the target to identify five strategic priorities in each of five additional regions was
   not achieved. Nevertheless, the ICR reports that some progress was achieved through regional committees of
   Government representatives with some civil society participation, although it did not provide indicators reflecting
   the extent of progress.
   Objective 3. To strengthen sectoral policy management in social inclusion . Substantial.
   Uneven management capacity was perceived to undermine the implementation of social inclusion programs at
   the municipal level. To address this the responsibility of states in social assistance was enhanced through
   transfers to municipalities for co-financing of social assistance and services that complement federal and
   municipal funding; and introduction of merit-based selection of school superintendents and directors to help
   improve school performance. Substantial progress was made in the percentage of municipalities covered by the
   state social transfers, which increased from 25 percent in 2012 to 100 percent in 2014, significantly surpassing
   the target of 70 percent.
   Progress was also achieved in municipal management, as indicated by the number of municipalities with an
   Index of Decentralized Municipal Management (which measures the quality of municipal management of two
   federal programs) below 0.55. This number was reduced from 90 municipalities in 2012 to 11 in 2014,
   significantly surpassing the target of 45. On education management, progress could not be measured because
   the M&E design was inadequate, as the indicators measured student performance (share of students reaching
   adequate learning levels or higher on the annual basic education exam), which only partially reflects education
   management, among its multiple determinant; and as any effects from managerial changes are likely to occur
   beyond the horizon of the operation. The share of students reaching adequate learning levels or higher on the
   annual basic education exams scored largely below targets.

   Objective 4. To strengthen sectoral policy management in environmental management . Modest.
   This objective responded to the institutional dispersion of the granting of environment permits, a lack of
   compliance monitoring of mitigation measures, and a need to plant forests to provide legal charcoal, in lieu of
   coal, to the steel and iron industry. A new sub-secretariat for environmental management and forest plantation
   incentives aimed to address these issues. Results were well below expectations. The share of irregular
   businesses monitored (those engaged in illegal deforestation), after being identified through the Special
   Inspection Operations, to ensure implementation of mitigation measures increased from 0 percent in 2012 to 100
   percent (four irregular business undertakings) in 2014, meeting its target. However, this indicator is likely to be an
   inadequate measure of the reach of environmental enforcement, as it will not capture non-identified irregular
   businesses. On sustainable charcoal production, the number of hectares of forest plantation to serve as raw input
   for charcoal production decreased from 94.3 hectares in 2012 to 62.2 hectares, significantly missing its target of
   108.5 hectares. The ICR (ICR p.14) notes that the new phase of the Kyoto Protocol made Brazil ineligible for
   Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) payments, thus removing incentives from the Government’s program.
   Further, the ICR notes that a recession led to a decrease in demand for raw input for charcoal production.

   Objective 5. To support sectoral policy management in metropolitan governance . Substantial
   Over the last ten years the Government has been introducing legislation to allow for the formal recognition of the
   State’s metropolitan areas. This paved the way for increased coordination between state and municipal policies,
   which is seen as a requirement for improved quality of public services. This operation supported the metropolitan
   region of Belo Horizonte (RMBH) by strengthening coordination efforts, through requiring regular Commission
   meetings and ensuring operational efficiency. An indication of progress is coordination for cross- sector land use
   issues, which improved significantly. The average time for the analysis of prior approval requests for land
   parceling in the RMBH decreased from 27.52 days in 2012 to 10.45 days in 2014 significantly exceeding the
   target of 23. A less convincing indicator was the holding of regular meetings of the Territorial Management
   Commission (CGT). Meetings were held every two weeks in 2013, significantly exceeding the target of at least
   one every 60 days. However, the significance of this with regard to effective coordination is uncertain and the ICR
   did not provide details on the role and significance of this Commission.



5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The objective was well aligned and relevant given country conditions. With some exceptions (e.g., education) the
   results chain was plausible and allowed for attribution of progress to prior actions undertaken under the
   operation. While substantial progress was made in strengthening budget management, social inclusion, and
   metropolitan governance, achievements in deepening the innovative management model and environmental
   management was modest. With relevance of objectives as well as efficacy for three out of five objectives rated as
   substantial, outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Reformed management structures and processes have been institutionalized and reached a mature status of
    integration and implementation, making a reversal of progress unlikely. Further, capacity constraints have been
    mitigated with the support from technical staff who have been schooled in MG’s management models. Lastly, the
    model accommodated federal budget legal requirements to consult, prioritize programs and incorporate
    indicators.

    However, risks regarding progress in environmental sustainability remain high, especially given the removal of
    the CDM incentives for reforestation.

    On balance Risk to Development Outcome is rated Moderate.



   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The operation was designed in close alignment with the State’s priorities, and set to deepen the reach of
    previous reforms, which were also supported by previous World Bank engagement. The operation was built
    on a large body of analytical work, including a Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment
    from 2009, a 2009 poverty study, a 2011 education report, and a 2011 IEG assessment of World Bank
    engagement at the decentralized level. Furthermore, support was timely as it deepened and strengthened
    commitment to ongoing reforms in management.

    On the downside, the results chain was undermined by outcome indicators (e.g., students’ performance) that
    were too removed from the prior actions supported by the program. Fewer objectives would have ensured
    better targeting and effectiveness of the operation. The team noted that the Brazilian legal framework does
    not lend itself to the processing of programmatic operations.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:

    The Bank conducted regular formal and thorough supervision missions in close collaboration with State
officials. The Bank filed three ISRs indicating close attention to progress under the operation. The Bank was able
to exploit synergies from the Partnership II Sector Wide Approach operation, which overlapped with this DPL in
terms of implementation time and sector coverage. This resulted in a stronger communication that reinforced the
supervision of the operation..

   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government demonstrated strong commitment to the reform agenda. The State’s good fiscal performance
provided an enabling environment. The operation had the full support of the State officials who have spearheaded
past operations of the Partnership Series. A high technical capacity of the responsible government staff facilitated
good progress. Intergovernmental coordination was strong and implementation mechanisms embedded in the
Government’s existing M&E framework facilitated an efficient implementation process and timely and technically
sound resolution of implementation issues, including the adoption of the pilot methodology for citizen participation.

Furthermore, Government was inclusive in its involvement of stakeholders such as the civil society organizations
and prioritized the reform agenda across the policy areas. The Government has indicated its interest in a follow-up
operation in the development of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan Area.



   Government Performance Rating :                               Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    Implementing agencies included the State Secretaries of Social Development, Education, Environment and
    Sustainable Development, Metropolitan Governance, the State Institute for Forrest, and the Development
    Agency of the Metropolitan Region of Belo Horizonte. All secretariats involved were highly committed to the
    implementation of the operation. Communication and coordination during preparation and implementation
    was strong. The implementing agencies adequately used the Government M&E system for follow-up and
    early identification of potential implementation issues, which then were addressed. Furthermore, the liaison
    with and provision of information to Bank counterparts was timely and of high quality.

    Prior actions benefited from high ownership and political support. Once flaws in the results framework,
    especially on indicators, were identified, mitigating measures were taken.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The M&E design was integrated well with the overall Government program, and was broadly sound and
    comprehensive. There were however, some design problems in the results framework of the social inclusion
    objective in the education sector, and the measure of the deepening of the innovative model. These included
    ambitious targets on educational achievement indicators that were too far removed from the prior actions and
    thus poorly attributable to the Bank’s engagement. Furthermore, budget execution per se is an insufficient
    indicator for measuring expenditure effectiveness. Accordingly, the indicators did not provide robust evidence of
    management improvements in that area. Furthermore, the outcome indicator regarding the share of irregular
    business undertakings monitored after being identified is weak as it loses credibility if identification efforts falter.

b. M&E Implementation:

    The management of M&E and liaison with the Bank was carried out in a timely manner by the Strategic Resource
    Management and State Actions Unit. Coordination of M&E among secretariats was high and collaboration and
    communication with the Bank was adequate. Consequently, the Bank was aware that progress of some
    indicators was at risk (owing to design issues mentioned above) and the State responded with detailed
    explanations.

c. M&E Utilization:

    Scope for M&E utilization was moderate given that this was a single tranche operation. However, the ICR reports
    that the M&E design in the DPL supported the strengthening of the State’s M&E framework. Furthermore,
    monitoring served Bank-client dialogue and led to corrective actions. For example, following poor citizen
    participation in the two pilot regions the Government chose to refrain from expanding the participatory
    management pillar.
  M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    No safeguard policies were triggered by the operation.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR does not address fiduciary compliance as the operation was a development policy loan. The Program
    Document (PD p.50) notes that the Bank carried out an assessment of the fiduciary environment for the
    management of public resources in Minas Gerais. According to that assessment the State has a strong track
    record of implementing reforms in public sector management aimed at enhancing efficiency, transparency and
    accountability in the use of public funds..


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    The ICR (p.17) notes that difficulties encountered in some areas (social inclusion and harvesting native forest for
    charcoal production) led to further action by the Government. The State faced difficulties in enrolling local
    participants in meaningful development agenda discussions. As a result it evaluated and analyzed the issues of
    how to address non-compliance of the regional committees, the value added of civil society engagement, and the
    opportunities and limits of participatory development approaches.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately        Outcome is rated Moderately
                                                            Satisfactory      Satisfactory following modest design
                                                                              and modest achievements in the
                                                                              innovative management model and
                                                                              environmental management objectives.

          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate          While risks regarding the management
                     Outcome:                                                 model are plausibly low, they remain
                                                                              high for environmental sustainability
                                                                              given the removal of incentives for
                                                                              reforestation..

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately        Bank Performance was rated
                                                            Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory because of
                                                                              design issues including too many and
                                                                              broad objectives for a stand-alone
                                                                              operation, and a weak results chain in
                                                                              social inclusion and deepening of
                                                                              innovative management model.

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG concurs with the lessons drawn by the ICR (ICR p. 20) with some adaptation of language:

    Adoption of results-based management may benefit from its integration into fiscal reforms. In Minas Gerais
    fiscal rationalization was a key reform objective that drove the management program. The combination of
    institutional adequacy and well-designed interventions drives performance in service delivery.

    Results based management reforms require a long-term commitment, and an adaptable environment. As in the
    case of Minas Gerais, the process evolved over time, and was adapted and refined.

    Reforms need sustained champions. One of the main factors of the success of the Choque de Gestão
    (Management Shock) was the dedication of an incoming administration with a team of highly trained, dedicated
    professionals with a mission to implant results-based management.

    Government ownership and commitment is critical for the successful implementation and sustainability of an
    operation. In this case strong political leadership ensured the continuity of the results-based management
    reform agenda.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

    The ICR provided a thorough, clear, succinct and candid assessment of the operation. Further, the ICR is
    well-written and grounded in evidence. In particular the results chain is presented coherently, with sufficient
    emphasis on the achievement of prior actions and their respective indicators.

    On the downside, the ICR could have provided further detail on relevance of the program objectives with respect
    to country and Bank strategy. The discussion of results indicators should be in M&E rather than in relevance of
    design. The ICR narrative in some instances is not sufficiently consistent with the ratings. Similarly, given the
    risks regarding coal production, a negligible to low risk to development outcome appears overly optimistic.
    Furthermore, the ICR could have provided more information regarding Borrower Performance. Lastly, lessons are
    not always written as such and, at times, could be read as recommendations..

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
