OFFICIAL
MUMEST
LOAN NUMBER 8187-BR
Loan Agreement
(Third Minas Gerais Development Partnership Development Policy Loan-
Terceiro Programa de Parceria para o Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated  y0cmbP c(,     2012


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement dated  c. oeM b e A  .          , 2012, entered into between
the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
("Bank") and the STATE OF MINAS GERAIS ("Borrower") for the purpose of
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement).
WHEREAS (A) The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis,
inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program
and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; (b) the Guarantor's
maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy framework; and (c) the Borrower's
maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
(B) The Borrower has informed the Bank that, upon deposit by the Bank of the
proceeds of the Loan (on the terms set forth in the Section II of Schedule I to this
Agreement and for purposes of supporting the Program) into an account to be designated
by the Borrower, the Borrower's financial capacity will be strengthened by expanding its
fiscal space to finance further public investments in accordance with the Borrower's
budgetary laws.
The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II - LOAN
2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of four hundred fifty million Dollars
($450,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
Agreement ("Loan").
2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. The Borrower's
Representative for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken pursuant to this Section is the Borrower's Secretary of Finance.


﻿2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.
2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
General Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
amortization schedule set for:h in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
2.07. (a)    The Borrower may at any time, in each case with prior non-objection of
the Guarantor, through the Secretariat of the National Treasury of the
Guarantor's Ministry of Finance, request any of the following
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an
Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to:
(A) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; or
(B) all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a Reference Rate and the
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Reference Rate and
the Variable Spread, or vice versa; or (C) all of the principal amount of
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate based on a
Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the
setting of limits on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate applicable to
all or any portion o f the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
Collar on the Variable Rate or the Reference Rate.
(b)    Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
Guidelines.
-2-


﻿(c)    Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
Schedule I to this Agreement.
2.08.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.
ARTICLE III - PROGRAM
3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views on: (i) the Guarantor's macroeconomic
policy framework; (ii) the Borrower's maintenance of an appropriate
expenditure program, sustainable debt, and appropriate fiscal
arrangements with the Guarantor; and (iii) the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Section I of
Schedule I to this Agreement;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
that would have the effect of materially: (i) impairing the Borrower's
ability to maintain an appropriate expenditure program, sustainable debt,
and/or appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor; or
(ii) reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
-3-


﻿ARTICLE IV -- REMEDIES OF THE BANK
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:
(a)    A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out.
(b)    An action has been laken or a policy has been adopted by the Borrower
to reverse any action or policy under the Program, including any action
listed in Section I cf Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in a manner that
would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of
the objectives of the Program.
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
5.01.  The Additional Conditions o" Effectiveness consist of the following:
(a)    The Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Guarantor's
macroeconomic policy framework.
(b)    The Bank is satisfied with the Borrower's maintenance of: (i) an
appropriate expenditure program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii)
appropriate fiscal arrangements with the Guarantor.
5.02.  The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has
been registered with the Gua-antor's Central Bank.
1.03.  The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's
approval of the Loan which cxpire on January 24, 2014.
ARTICLE VI- REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
6.01.  The Borrower's Representative is its Secretary of Finance.
6.02. The Borrower's Address is:
Edificio Gerais, 70 andar
Cidade Administrativa Pres. Tancredo Neves
Av. Prefeito Am6rico Gianetti, s/n, Bairro Serra Verde
Belo Horizonte, MG
CEP: 31.630-900
Facsimile: +55 31 3915-6921
-4-


﻿6.03.  The Bank's Address is:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:       Telex:              Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD            248423(MCI) or      1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145(MCI)
AGREED at A      ats e     dolvi'bi         '57Vej "/ O N l e., as of
the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized R   sentative
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By
Authorized Representative
-5-


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Proaram
The actions taken by the Borrower u.ider the Program, aimed at: (a) strengthening public
sector and budgetary management; (b) promoting social inclusion; (c) increasing
environmental sustainability; and (d; developing a metropolitan governance framework,
include the following:
Strengthening Public Sector and Budgetary Management
(a)    The Borrower has:
(i)    established 22 Strategic Management and Innovation Units
aimed  at   decentralizing  the  Borrower's  results-based
management functions, as evidenced by the Borrower's
Delegated Law No. 180, dated January 20, 2011, published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette on January 21, 2011; and
(ii)   made the 22 Strategic Management and Innovation Units
operational, as evidenced by 22 Decrees issued by the Borrower,
and duly published in the Borrower's Official Gazette, each
Decree setting forth the competency of each of said 22 units.
(b)    The Borrower has adopted the M6dulo de Programaqjo Orgamentdria
do Sistema Integrado de Administragdo Financeira - SIAFI/MG, as
evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 45.906, dated February 6, 2012,
published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on February 7, 2012.
(c)    The Borrower has adopted measures to assess projects exceeding five
million Reais and co-financed through Transfer6ncias Voluntdrias by the
Guarantor within the Borrower's territory prior to submitting said
projects to the Cdmara de Coordenaqdo Geral, Planejamento, Gestdo e
Finanqas  for  approval,  as  evidenced  by  the   Borrower's
Decree No. 45.906, dated February 6, 2012, published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on February 7, 2012.
(d)    The Borrower has:
(i)    created two regional committees within the Borrower's territory,
i.e., one regional committee for the Norte de Minas region, and
one regional committee for the Rio Doce region, to pilot the
carrying out of a participatory process to increase citizen
-6-


﻿participation aimed at identifying regional priorities within the
Borrower's public policies in the respective regions under each
committee's jurisdiction, as evidenced by the Borrower's
Decree No. 45.584, dated April 8, 2011, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on April 9, 2011, as amended by the
Borrower's Decree No. 45.753, dated October 6, 2011, published
in the Borrower's Official Gazette on October 7, 2011; and
(ii)   made the two regional committees operational, as evidenced by:
(A)    a copy of the minutes of the meeting of the regional
committee for the Norte de Minas region held on
June 16, 2011;
(B)    a copy of the minutes of the meeting of the regional
committee for the Rio Doce region held on
May 31, 2011;
(C)    a copy of the list of participants in the meeting of the
regional committee for the Norte de Minas region with
civil  society  organizations,  dated  October 17
and 18, 2011;
(D)    a copy of the list of participants in the meeting of the
regional committee for the Rio Doce region with civil
society organizations, dated August 18, 2011;
(E)    a copy of the Caderno Regional Norte de Minas; and
(F)    a copy of the Caderno Regional do Rio Doce.
2.     Promoting Social Inclusion
(a)    The Borrower, through SEDESE:
(i)    has established the Piso Mineiro, as evidenced by SEDESE's
Resolution No. 459, dated December 29, 2010, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 30, 2010; and
(ii)  is implementing the Piso Mineiro, as evidenced by a letter issued
by SEPLAG, dated May 2, 2012, transmitting the budget report
for January through December 2011 showing the transfer of the
necessary budget from the Borrower to 214 municipalities in the
Borrower's territory under the Piso Mineiro, such transfer
having been made in accordance with article 4 of SEDESE's
-7-


﻿Resolution No. 459, dated December 29, 2010, published in the
Borrower's Official Gazette on December 30, 2010.
(b)    The Borrower has amended the regulation regarding the Programa
Travessia, to include, inter alia, a provision for the Borrower's carrying
out of a diagnosis on education, health and quality of life in selected
municipalities located in areas of social vulnerability within the
Borrower's territory, and in partnership with such selected
municipalities, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 45.694, dated
August 12, 2011, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
August 13, 2011.
(c)    The Borrower has atlopted, and is implementing, a merit-based selection
process for regional school superintendents and school directors within
its territory, as evideiced by:
(i)    the Borrower's Delegated Law No. 182, dated January 21, 2011,
published  in   the   Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on
January 22, 2011;
(ii)  the Resolution issued by the Borrower's Secretariat of Education
No. 1812, dated March 22, 2011, published in the Borrower's
Official Gazette on March 23, 2011; and
(iii)  a letter issued by SEPLAG dated May 2, 2012, confirming the
nomination of regional school superintendents and school
directors and transmitting copies of the formal instruments
nominating maid personnel.
31.    Increasing Environmental Sustainability
(a)    The Borrower has established, within the Borrower's Secretariat for
Environment and Sustainable Development, a sub-secretariat for
environmental management and regularization and a sub-secretariat for
environmental control and inspection, as evidenced by:
(i)    the Borrower's Decree No. 45.824, dated December 20, 2011,
published  in   the   Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on
December 2 1, 2011; and
(ii)  the Borrower's Delegated Law No. 180, dated January 20, 2011,
published  in   the   Borrower's  Official  Gazette  on
January 21, 2011.
-8-


﻿(b)    The Borrower has adopted measures to encourage forest plantation
within its territory to supply raw input to industries located in the
Borrower's territory, as evidenced by the Borrower's Decree No. 45.919,
dated March 1, 2012, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
March 2, 2012.
4.     Developing a Metropolitan Governance Framework
The Borrower has, through the Conselho Deliberativo de Desenvolvimento da
Regido Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte, adopted an integrated regional
development master plan for the metropolitan region of Belo Horizonte, as
evidenced by the minutes of the meeting dated July 11, 2011, recording the
meeting of the Conselho Deliberativo de Desenvolvimento da Regido
Metropolitana de Belo Horizonte.
Section HI.  Availability of Loan Proceeds
A.     General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
may specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.     Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required-to-pay_the.
Front-end Fee) is allocated in a single withdrawal tranche, from which the
Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds. The allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocations                   Amount of the Loan
Allocated
(expressed in Dollars)
(1) Single Withdrawal Tranche              448,875,000
(2) Front-end Fee                             1,125,000
(3) Amount due pursuant to
Section 2.07(c) of this Agreement
TOTAL AMOUNT                               450,000,000
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
1. No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
is satisfied:
(a)    with the Guarantor's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic policy
framework;
-9-


﻿(b)    with the Borrower's maintenance of: (i) an appropriate expenditure
program; (ii) sustainable debt; and (iii) appropriate fiscal arrangements
with the Guarantor; and
(c)    with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program.
D.     Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:
1I all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and
2.    the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2014. The Bank will grant an
extension of the Closing Date only after the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance has
informed the Bank that it agrees with such an extension.
-10-


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.    The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
Payment Date ("Installment Share"). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
Principal Payment Date                  Installment Share
__________________________      (Expressed as a Percentage)
On each April 15and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2017                    2%
through April 15, 2042
2.    If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)    To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph I
of this Schedule.
(b)    Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date ("Original Installment Share")
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
Conversion applies.
3.    (a)     Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
-11-


﻿withdrawn and outAtanding on the second Principal Payment Date
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
Date following the date of withdrawal.
(b)    Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
Currency Conversion of all cr any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
currency of denomination irmediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
each such amount.
-12-


﻿APPENDIX
Section I. Definitions
1.     "Caderno Regional Norte de Minas" means the Borrower's document compiling
socioeconomic information from Norte de Minas and listing priorities selected by
civil society organizations during its regional meeting, undated.
2.     "Caderno Regional do Rio Doce" means the Borrower's document compiling
socioeconomic information from Rio Doce and listing priorities selected by civil
society organizations during its regional meeting, undated.
3.     "Cdmara de Coordenaqdo Geral, Planejamento, Gestdo e FinanVas" means the
Borrower's chamber governed by the Borrower's Delegated Law No. 180, dated
January 20, 2011, published in the Official Gazette on January 21, 2011,
consisting of selected representatives from its secretariats, aimed at coordinating
the Borrower's development and implementation of public policies.
4.     "Conselho Deliberativo de Desenvolvimento da Regido Metropolitana de Belo
Horizonte" means the council representing the Borrower, civil society, and
municipal representatives aimed at deciding on urban planning issues for the
metropolitan region of Belo Horizonte.
5.     "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
or grant;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
Borrower:
Group       Sub-group              Description of Item
112                      Alcoholic beverages
121                      Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                      Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                      Radioactive and associated materials
-13-


﻿667                       Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718           718.7       Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated,
for nuclear reactors
728           728.43      Tobacco processing machinery
897           897.3       Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and
watch cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares (including set
gems)
971                       Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended fbr a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
(or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.
6.     "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development General Conditions for Loans", dated March 12, 2012, with the
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.
7.     "Lei de   Responsabilidade  Fiscal"  means Lei Complementar     Federal
No. 101/2000, issued by the Guarantor on May 4, 2000, published in the
Guarantor's Official Gazette on May 5, 2000.
"M6dulo de Programaqdo O.-gamentdria do Sistema Integrado de Administravio
Financeira - SIAFI/MG" means a budget programming module aimed at
registering budgetary limits based on the authorized credit for the Borrower's
fiscal year and capturing the respective budgetary execution plans for each of the
Borrower's spending units, established pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree referred to in Section 1.1(b) of Schedule I to this Agreement.
-14-


﻿9.     "Norte de Minas" means the northern administrative region in the Borrower's
territory covering 89 municipalities.
10.    "Piso Mineiro" means the Borrower's social assistance program consisting of
Borrower financing, in addition to federal and municipal financing, of social
services and provision of temporary social benefits, established pursuant to
SEDESE's Resolution referred to in Section I.2(a)(i) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
11.    "Programa Travessia" means the Borrower's program aimed at planning,
coordinating and implementing the Borrower's public policies on social inclusion
in selected regions with high concentration of socially vulnerable families,
established  pursuant  to   the   Borrower's   Law No. 17.007,  dated
September 28, 2007, published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
September 29, 2007, as amended and referred to in Section 1.2(b) of Schedule I
to this Agreement.
12.    "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
strengthen the Borrower's public sector reforms, budget management and
sectoral policy management in the areas of social inclusion, environmental
management and metropolitan governance in order to promote growth and
achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the letter
dated May 30, 2012, from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the
Bank in support of the Program during its execution.
13.    "Reais" means the Borrower's currency.
14.    "Rio Doce" means the administrative region in the Borrower's territory covering
102 municipalities.
15.    "SEDESE" means the Borrower's Secretariat of Social Development.
16.    "SEPLAG" means the Borrower's Planning Secretariat.
17.    "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
18.    "Strategic Management and Innovation Unit" means a unit established in one of
the Borrower's secretariats as referred to in Section I.1 (a) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
-15-


﻿19.    "Transfer6ncias Voluntdria" means, solely for the purpose of this Agreement,
the Guarantor's transfer of current or capital resources to the Borrower for
purposes of providing cooperation, aid or financial assistance not derived from
constitutional legal mandate or destined to the unified health system, in
accordance with article 25 of the Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal.
Section I. Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Co aditions are as follows:
1.     The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.
2.     Sections 2.04 (Designated Ac:counts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
accordingly.
3.     Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.
4.     Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
5.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records
(c)    The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records."
6.     Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
above) is modified to read as follows:
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation
"      (c)    The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their
-16-


﻿respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan."
7.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Loan Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in their
entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
support of which the Loan is made."
-17-


