Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22234
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-3 1670; IDA-3 1671)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 122.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT
(Cr. 3167-ZA)
05/30/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
ZMK 3,600 = US$ 1
US$ 0.000278 = ZMK I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC, Anglo                 Anglo-American Corporation
BOZ                        Bank of Zambia
BW                         Bonded Warehouse
CDC                        Commonwealth Development Corporation
CEC                        Copperbelt Electric Company
CG                         Consultative Group
COMESA                     Common Market for Eastem and Southem Africa
CPI                        Consumer Price Index
DDB                        Duty Drawback
DFID                       Department for Intemational Development (UK)
ERC                        Economic Recovery Credit
ERIPTA                     Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance Credit
ESAC                       Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF                       Enhanced Structural Adjustnent Facility
GRZ                        Government of the Republic of Zambia
HIPC                       Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                        Intemational Development Association
IDF                        Import Declaration Fee
IFC                        Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF                        International Monetary Fund
KCM                        Konkola Mining Conpany
MCDSS                      Ministiy of Community Development and Social Services
MMD                        Movement for Multiparty Democracy
MOU                        Memorandum of Understanding
MUB                        Manufacturing Under Bond
NFNC                       National Food and Nutnition Commission
NGO                        Nongovernmental Organization
PER                        Public Expenditure Review
PFP                        Policy Frameworic Paper
PIRC                       Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PSRP                       Public Sector Reform Program
PWAS                       Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
SAF                        Structural Adjustment Facility
SIP                        Sector Investment Program
SPA                        Special Program of Assistance
UNDP                       United Nations Development Program
USAID                      United States Agency for Intemational Development
ZAMTEL                     Zambia Telecommunications Company
ZCCM                       Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZCI                        Zambia Copper Investments
ZESCO                      Zambia Electric Supply Company
ZNOC                       Zambia National Oil Company
ZPA                        Zambia Privatization Agency
ZRA                        Zambia Revenue Authority
Vice President:          Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Mr. Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:             Mr. Philippe Le Houerou
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mr. Hinh Dinh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
PSREP (ESAC III)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                   1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                     3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                       9
6. Sustainability                                                                          10
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                           I I
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                          12
9. Partner Comments                                                                        13
10. Additional Information                                                                 14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                       15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       18
Annex 4. B1ank Inputs                                                                      19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                       20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                          21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P03564 1                                      Project Name: PSREP (ESAC 111)
Team Leader: Hinh Truong Dinh                             TL Unit: AFTM 1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PSREP (ESAC 111)                               L/C/TF Number: IDA-31670;
IDA-31671
CountryIDepartment: ZAMBIA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: KN - Macro/Non-Trade
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/22/1996                              Effective:
Appraisal:  12/11/1998                                MTR:
Approval:  01/26/1999                              Ciosing:
Borrower/liplementing Agency: GOVT. OF ZAMBIA/BANK OF ZAMBIA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Callisto Madavo
Country Manager:     Yaw Ansu                                   Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:      Philippe Le Houerou                        Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader at ICR:   Hinh T. Dinh                              Sudhir Shetty
ICR Primary Author:   David G. Greene; with
contribution from Leonid
Koryukin.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Credit (PSREP) was designed to support
Zambia's economic reform program to reduce poverty by promoting broadly-shared, -private sector-led



growth and improving the delivery of vital social services. In particular, the Credit would: (a) complete
ZCCM's privatization and implement its labor reduction program; (b) improve the public service by
reforming pay, employment, and management controls; (c) promote private sector activity, especially
export trade, by improving access to imported inputs and streamlining investment approvals; and (d)
strengthen delivery of social services and the safety net by monitoring key budget allocations and
supporting policy reform.
3.2 Revised Objective.
The focus of the project changed during preparation to focus more on privatization of ZCCM.
However, after approval, there was no revision of project objectives or components.
3.3 Original Components:
Project preparation began in the second half of calendar 1997. Its original focus was to be on
supporting public sector reformn, with somewhat lesser emphasis on export and investment promotion,
ZCCM privatization and protecting budget expenditures on poverty-related programs.
However, by 1998, the situation of ZCCM had become critical. The Government could no longer
sustain the company's losses of US$ 20-30 million per month. Suppliers were on the verge of cutting off
vital flows of materials and equipment. There was a real possibility that the company would face
bankruptcy proceedings and/or have to cease operations. This could result in physical damage to the
mines, social and political chaos in the Copperbelt and virtual collapse of the Zambian economy. There
was no viable macroeconomic scenario without privatization of ZCCM. PSREP was thus postponed and
recast to focus on facilitating the privatization of ZCCM. The amount of the credit was increased by US$
40 million (to US$ 170 million) and US$ 65 million was to be relent to ZCCM to help cover the cost of
ZCCM's labor reduction program. The credit was not presented to the Board until MOUs had been signed
for the sale of all publicly offered ZCCM asset packages and steps were taken to ensure a viable
macroeconomic framework, including agreement on an IMF ESAF program and adequate extemal
financing through holding a successful Consultative Group (CG) meeting. Tranches and their conditionality
were modified to reflect Lhe focus on ZCCM privatization. Board approval and release of the US$ 65
miillion first tranche were based on agreement on a government prograrn including completion of ZCCM
privatization, progress on public sector reform, stimulation of exports and private investment by improving
access to imported inputs and streamlining investment approvals, and greeing on and monitoring budget
allocations for key social sector expenditures. Release of the US$ 65 million second tranche would require
transfer of ownership and control of remaining ZCCM core assets to their new owners, progress on the
reorganization of ZCCM and satisfactory implementation of its labor reduction program. It was also linked
to investment and export promotion measures and to budget releases for agreed social sector expenditures.
A floating tranche of US$ 40 million was added linked to formulation of a revised action plan for the
Public Sector Reform Program.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality of the project at entry was rated satisfactory by QAG. The project was found to have
addressed some of the key objectives and issues in Zambian development. The project was not sufficiently
explicit on environmental and social concems. However, projects being processed at the time included the
Copperbelt Environmental Project and the MineTownship Services Project designed to ensure the continued
reliable availability of public services formerly provided by ZCCM. Zambia has a National Environmental
Action Plan and an IDA-supported Environmental Support Program  is being implemented.  The
- 2 -



Government has issued revised environmental regulations for the mining sector and an environmental
section in the Mines Safety Department of the Ministry of Mines has been established. Efforts to sustain
social spending are particularly important for the poor and the credit finances severance payments and
retraining benefits for workers displaced by the privatization o f ZCCM.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Olutcome/achievement of objectiv,e:
The PSREP credit was the seventh structural adjustment credit (SAC) since 1991, supporting the
Government's program of macroeconomic stabilization, trade liberalization, deregulation of domestic
economic activity and promotion of private initiative. With the assistance of these credits, the government's
fiscal deficits were reduced, prices were decontrolled and subsidies were eliminated. Exchange rate and
interest rate controls were lifted and these rates are now market-determined. Quantitative restrictions on
imports were eliminated and import tariffs were simplifiecl, reduced and made more uniform. The
Government also launched a public sector reform program. The critical privatization of the state copper
company ZCCM was finally completed during the implementation of this project. Privatization of
non-mining state enterprises has also made considerable progress. Hence, the overall outcome is rated
satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Facilitating privatization and reorganization of ZCCM.
A. Background. Because of its inadequate technical and financial management, mounting losses,
deteriorating capital stock and declining production, privatization of ZCCM came to be viewed as
necessary and inevitable. Under the ERIP credit of 1995, the Government committed itself to privatization
of its mining assets and retained financial and legal advisors financed by a PPF. In accordance with the
advisors' recommendations, ZCCM's assets were divided into nine packages for sale. Under Zambia's
Privatization Law, the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) was charged with the responsibility for
carrying out the privatization and a special ministerial committee was appointed to provide high-level
oversight. A target deadline of September 1996 was set for pre-qualifying investors and February 1997 for
completion of due diligence and submission of bids, with the aim of completing sale and asset transfer by
end June 1997. By February 1997 at least one bid was received for each package and several packages had
multiple bids. A bid for major packages of assets, including the Nchanga Division the largest producer of
copper and cobalt, was received from the Kafue consortium (comprised of Anglovaal Minerals of South
Africa, Noranda of Canada, Phelps Dodge of the US, and CDC of the UK), a group of reputable
international mining companies.
In March 1997, the Government suddenly named the ex-CEO of ZCCM as head of the negotiating
team, replacing the CEO of ZPA. He, in turn, added to the team a number of ZCCM staffers who were
known to oppose privatization. High-level representations we,re made by the donor community urging the
President to rescind the action. At the insistence of the Minister of Finance, the Bank financed the
contracts of the new lead negotiator and the members of his team using funds from the ERIP Technical
Assistance Credit.
Negotiations with the Kafue Consortiumn continued oif and on for some time. In November 1997,
the Consortium's offer was rejected. Attempts were made to reach a new agreement with the Consortium,
but in June 1998, negotiations with the Kafue Consortium terminated, reducing the number of potential
buyers to one, the South African company Anglo American Corporation (AAC, which was already a
minority shareholder in ZCCM). In late 1998 negotiations began with AAC, but by this time, declining
copper prices and ZCCM's unsustainable losses had weakened the Government's position.
- 3 -



The remaining assets were divided into two packages. In late 1998, negotiations began with AAC
for purchase of the larger package. AAC's subsidiary Zambia Copper Investments (ZCI), eventually agreed
to purchase the Konkola and Nchanga Divisions, the Nampundwe Mines and Chingola Refractory Ores
and to manage the Nkana smelter and refinery under contract. ZCI was also granted rights to develop the
large, rich Konkola Deep property. A memorandum of understanding to that effect was signed in
December of 1998. However, AAC insisted it needed a foreign partner if it was to go ahead. After a
prolonged search involving Codelco, the Chilean copper mining company, which spent 6 months doing due
diligence only to decline to participate, IFC and CDC each agreed to take a 7.5% participation in KCM, the
company set up by AAC to purchase the assets from ZCCM. A second package consisting of the Mufulira
Division and Nkana mine and concentrator was sold to Glencore AG Ltd. and First Quantum Ltd. which
formed a new company, Mopani Copper Mines. All the properties were transferred to their new owners on
March 31, 2000, completing the privatization of ZCCM some five years after it began.
The delay of the sale proved to be extremely costly. During the three fiscal years prior to its
eventual sale, ZCCM experienced a cumulative operating loss of US$ 927 million. Copper production
continued its downward trend, dropping from 321,600 tons in 1997 to 265,700 tons in 1999 and copper
prices continued to decline. As a result, the offer finally accepted by the Government was considerably less
favorable than the one it had rejected. The agreement with Anglo provided a lower cash payment, and
involved considerable additional concessions from Government, including a low, fixed power rate for 20
years, exemption from taxes for five years (plus a 20 year carry forward of losses), duty exemptions,
assumption of ZCCM's outstanding commercial debt and government agreement to pay for retrenchment of
redundant labor.
There was no immediate positive fiscal effect from the sale since the Government agreed to take
over ZCCM's debt totaling US$ 770 million: USS 273 million owed to suppliers (including ZESCO); Paris
Club debt of US$ 298 million and ZCCM's government guaranteed debt to multilateral agencies of US$
195 million. The Government was forced to budget K 424 billion in 2000 and K 270 billion in 2001 (about
US$250 million and $75 million, respectively) to pay off part of the debt to suppliers.
B. Support for the final phase of privatization. Given the above background, the PSREP was seen as a
rescue operation. It included irnplementation of a program to reduce excess labor, reorganization of
ZCCM as a holding company, and transfer of ZCCM's remaining core mining assets to the new owners.
The credit provided US$48.5 million to cover termination benefits of an estimated 7,337 workers identified
by ZCCM, US$ 9.2 million for termination benefits to workers identified by the new owners and US$ 7.3
million for other costs, including retraining. These funds were to be on lent to ZCCM from the first tranche
of PSREP. In March 1999 the ZCCM Board approved the reorganization plan agreed with the Bank.
ZCCM was converted from a mine operator into a holding company, Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mines-Investment Holding Company Plc. (ZCCM-ZIH Plc.), responsible for monitoring its investments in
the successor companies and following up on their commitments under the development and other
agreements. CCM- ZIH also has a subsidiary that will temporarily own and manage municipal services
until GRZ establishes a permanent organization for that purpose.
The implementation of the labor reduction plan began in January 2000, before completion of the
sale of core assets. In March 2000 it was estimated that the cost of retrenchment would be US$ 3.5 million
more than the US$ 65 million provided. The Bank therefore agreed that the Government increase its loan
to ZCCM by US $3.5 million. As of June 2000, 5,544 redundant workers had been retrenched at a cost of
US$ 35.7 million. The completion of the retrenchment plan was then suspended to allow the new owners to
identify workers to be retrenched. They were given until March 31, 2001 to identify the workers they
wanted to retrench. Retrenchment of excess workers identified after that date would be the responsibility of
-4 -



the new owners. It is now estimated that total cost of retrenchment would be on the order of US$ 61.5
million, leaving a balance of about US$ 7 million, which ZCCM-ZIH Plc., the government and IDA have
agreed to use for environmental cleanup.
The delayed completion of privatization set back the recovery of the mines and its positive impact
on economic activity for more than two years. Nevertheless, ZCCM privatization is now leading to a rapid
turnaround in copper production and economic activity in the Copperbelt. Problems with suppliers have
been straightened out and rehabilitation and recapitalization of mines is underway. KCM invested US$70
million in nine months in 2000, plans to invest US$ 183 million in 2001 and another US$ 128 million in
2002 in renewal and expansion. Its total investment obligaticin is US$ 782 million over six years. KCM
production, which at the time of the takeover was about 90,000 tons/year, rose to 125,000 tons in 2000,
and is expected to increase to 240,000 tons in 2001. Similar rates of growth are expected for most other
privatized mines. KCM employment seems to have stabilized at about 10,000 and only 650 workers
remain to be retrenched at this time. KCM reports that contrary to general opinion, it is using local banks
and suppliers for its non-high tech equipment.
The project accomplished its major objective of facilitating the privatization of ZCCM. The Bank
and IFC played a very active and critical role in the last stages of the privatization in 1999. The Ministry
of Mines and AAC report that without Bank involvement, the deal might not have gone through. The Bank
provided both comfort and financial assistance. Assurances of Bank involvement in the financing of the
retrenchment program and municipal services and potentially in the critical railway and roads sectors
reduced AAC's potential costs. The approval of PSREP itself was seen as an indicator of the Bank's
confidence in Zambia. IFC's involvement was also critical. Anglo was unwilling to go ahead without a
partner and IFC and CDC each purchasing 7.5% of the equity solved that problem. Moreover IFC's
insistence that KCM have an environmental plan that meets world standards was another plus for Bank
involvement.
Privatization of Non-mining Enterprises ZPA's privatization activities have been moving
forward. It reported that as of February 2001, 247 firms or units of its working portfolio of 299 had been
sold, 19 had been or were being liquidated, negotiations had been completed for three more, six were under
negotiation, and 24 were under preparation. The results of non-mining privatization so far have been
mixed. Not unexpectedly, larger enterprises sold to well financed and technically sophisticated investors
are doing well, for example, cotton, dairy, sugar and cement, while smaller enterprises, with less
sophisticated management are doing less well.
The Government stated in its Letter of Development Policy that it would focus future privatization
efforts on the large utility companies, parastatals in the petroleum, transport and financial sectors.
However, these critical privatizations remain in their early stages. It appears that the backlash from the
ZCCM privatization, which is widely perceived as a bad deal for the country, makes early action on these
unlikely, at least not before the presidential elections scheduled for October 2001. Cabinet has authorized
sale of 20% of ZAMTEL shares to minority shareholders, but for the Government to retain management
rights. However stock market regulations require a minimum flotation of 25% and the decision might have
to be reconsidered by Cabinet. Cabinet has approved concessioning Zambia Railways and preparations for
inviting bids are underway. Cabinet has authorized the ZANACO's board to sell some shares and ZPA is
initiating procedures for sale of 10% of the shareholdings. DFID is preparing privatization options for
Cabinet consideration. In the context of the current adjustment credit, the Fiscal Sustainability Credit I,
terms of reference have been prepared for new study of privatization options for INDENI and TAZAMA
and for restructuring ZNOC so that its role will be limited to management of a thirty day strategic reserve
of oil. Consultants have prepared a study of options for privatization of ZESCO.
- 5 -



Improving the public service by reforming pay, employment, and management controls. Both
insiders and outsiders have perceived the Zambian public service as oversized, underpaid and de-motivated,
and therefore inefficient and ineffective or worse. The solution to this has been seen as reducing the size of
the services, using part of the savings to increase wages, decompress the wage scale and to reorganize the
government ministries and agencies, and expand training to improve skills. A leaner, more qualified,
better-paid public service would be expected to be more accountable for its decisions and performance
The Bank has supported public sector reform in four previous adjustment operations dating back to
1991 and a fornal Public Service Reforrn Program (PSRP) was launched in 1993. It was revised in 1997
with a target of reducing the civil service from 139,000 in mid 1997 to a target of 80,000 by end-1999.
(The target was not reasonable since health, education and public safety workers alone accounted for more
than this.)
Recognizing. that public sector reform is too complex and lengthy a process to be treated
adequately in an adjustment operation, it was decided to de-emphasize PSRP in this operation. Under
PSREP it was agreed that the PSRP action plan would be revised to strengthen management controls,
including clearly defining responsibilities, actions and their timing. Agreement with IDA on a revised
PSRP, approval by Cabinet and beginning its implementation were made conditions of release of the
floating tranche. This condition was fulfilled with the issuance of PSRP2000 in June 2000, which includes
a time bound action plan covering 2000-2002, identifies responsible institutions or offices, and defines
management arrangements. Bank support for public sector reform is continuing under the Public Sector
Capacity Building Project, PSCAP, which has been structured as an APL with a 13- year implementation
period.
As specified in the LDP, the Government adopted a plan to reduce public sector employment by
an additional 7,000 in 1999 and, in fact, the size of the civil service has been reduced from about 117,000
at the end of 1998 to about 102,000 at present. Interim steps have been taken to strengthen establishment
and payroll controls and a plan was developed for medium term improvements. An actuarial study of the
pension scheme was submitted to government by in September 1999. The Government has also
commissioned a study of the functions and required size of the public service.
Promoting private sector activity, especially export trade, by improving access to imported
inputs. PSREP followed up on Bank efforts in prior adjustment operations to liberalize trade, reduce and
rationalize tariffs and promote investment and exports. Under previous adjustment operations, Zambia's
tariffs were reduced from a maximum of 100% in 1991 to 25 % by 1996 and concentrated in four bands
with a zero rate for most raw materials, 5% for capital goods, 15% for intermediate goods and 25% for
final goods. Under this operation the 5% Import Declaration Fee was eliminated in July 1998, effectively
bringing the maximum tariff down to 20%. The average tariff is now less than 15%. Zambia's tariff
reform is far ahead of that of its neighbors and there is evidence to suggest that in addition to the revenue
loss resulting from tariff reduction, Zambia has suffered from the fact that neighboring countries continue
to protect their industries with higher tariffs and non-tariff barriers.
PSREP aimed to encourage exports by improving the workings of the Duty Drawback Scheme,
DDB, and Manufacturing Under Bond, MUB, in order to ensure that exporters have access to imported
inputs at world prices. DDB provides for drawback of direct and indirect duties paid on direct and indirect
exports. Each firm's drawback is derived from a coefficient determined by a study of that firm's
operations. The funding mechanism and procedures and documentation requirements of DDB were
revamped to ensure adequate, timely drawbacks. Reform of the DDB and its operating regulations were
- 6 -



approved by Parliament and regulations were issued on July l, 1999. MOFED has been releasing funds
for the DDB since July 1999.
The DDB appears to be working well. However, the ,government feels the uptake rate is low and
has commissioned a study of the system. ZRA has established a unit to administer the DDB. By early
2001, 75 companies had registered for drawbacks, of which 48 were active users. ZRA is now paying
drawbacks amounting to approximately K 1.5 billion per month. The processing time for drawbacks has
been reduced from 180 days at the start up of the system in March 1998 to 30 days by December 1999.
ZRA is planning to phase out MUB, since the benefits provided by the DDB scheme are superior.
The effect of these programs on exports is difficult to measure. For three consecutive years
performance of nontraditional exports (NTE) has been below average. In contrast to the 20% growth rate
over 1991-96, NTEs declined from US$ 304 million in 1998 to US$ 279 million in 2000. However, this
cannot be attributed to weaknesses in the drawback scheme. Significant declines were seen in products,
like cotton lint and yarn, exported to neighboring countries whose economies have deteriorated (Congo).
Dollar value of exports to Europe, like fresh flowers and vegetables, were adversely affected by decline of
the euro relative to the dollar.
PSREP supported improving the institutional base for investment by streamlining the approval
process. The Zambia Investment Center investigated altemative structures to facilitate investment.
Although agreement could not be reached on establishing a "one-stop shop" for investment approvals, a
virtual one-stop shop has been established by having key authorizing and licensing entities meet together
regularly to approve investment certificate applications. Nevertheless, the number of private investment
pledges registered by the Investment Center dropped from 122 in 1999 to 107 in 2000 and the value fell
from  $160 million in 1999 to $105 million in 2000.  The decline is attributed to the unstable
macroeconomic environment and withdrawal of special incentives from the Investment Act of 1996.
However, the Investment Center states that the pledges are now of higher quality and more are likely to
come to fruition.
Strengthening delivery of social services by monitoring their budget allocations and
supporting policy reform. Beginning with the 1994 ESAC, each adjustment operation included provisions
to protect social sector expenditures by specifying and monitoring certain budget allocations and
corresponding releases of funds by the Treasury. Under agreements reached in previous adjustment
operations, the share of non-wage expenditures for social services in the discretionary budget (tax revenues
less domestic debt service, contingency reserve, provisions for payment of 1998 arrears, civil service pay
award and awards against government made in courts of law) was increased from 28% in 1993 to 36% in
1997 and 1998. Under PSREP such spending was to be maintained at 36% in 1999. Satisfactory
implementation of this agreement as reflected in actual releases was a condition of disbursement of the
second tranche. Monitored treasury releases of funds indicated that this target was met. In addition,
budget releases for seven key social sector programs identified in the LDP were found to have exceeded the
minimum amounts specified.
As indicated in the LDP, the Government has adopted new eligibility criteria and implementation
guidelines for the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme, PWAS. However, the total budget for PWAS in
2000 amounted to only K 3.3 billion, or about a million dollars. The Government plans to increase funding
to K18.6 billion in 2001, using HIPC resources. A National Poverty Reduction Stategy unit has been
established in the MOFED to coordinate implementation of the poverty reduction effort.
-7 -



Because of weaknesses in budget formulation and expenditure monitoring it is not clear whether or
to what extent the monitored budget releases translated into higher expenditures and improved levels and
effectiveness of services. Since the budget tends to under-fund certain expenditures and it is a relatively
simple matter to reallocate funds within Ministries, actual expenditures cannot be known until the audited
accounts are available, some 18 months after the end of the fiscal year. A comparison of actual and
budgeted expenditures for 1997 found large, systematic reallocations from  economically- and
socially-oriented ministries to general public services and from purchase of equipment and supplies to
wages and salaries. This may account for the perceptions in the "protected" ministries that they are
receiving less than budget authorizations, even though data on releases indicate otherwise. Moreover, it is
not clear that focus on non-wage outlays should be the priority in sectors like health and education where
retention and motivation of workers is a major issue.
Real per capita government spending on education and health has been eroded by inflation at the
same time the AIDS epidemic has placed great stress on the education and health systems. The AIDS
death rate among teachers is among the highest of any population subgroups and crash-training programs
have had to be initiated to fill the gap. Education indicators have stagnated during the 1990s. The total
illiteracy rate increased slightly, from 37% in 1991 to 38% in 1998. The primary school net enrollment
rate has remained stable at 68% over the same period. Health indicators have deteriorated, largely because
the rate of HIV/AIDS infection is among the highest in the world and has contributed to a decline in life
expectancy and a deterioration of health standards. A recent survey indicated that about 20% of the nation's
population is HIV infected--29% in urban areas and 14% in rural areas. Life expectancy at birth declined
from 43 years in 1995 to 40 years in 1999. The infant mortality rate has increased from 107 per 1000 live
births in 1990 to 114 in 1998 and in many areas one in four children dies before the age of five.
Stabilization, Growth and Poverty Alleviation Evaluation of the impact of the latest adjustment
operation in a long series is difficult to measure; Zambia's economic performance reflects the cumulative
effect of the reforms undertaken since 1991. This in turn reflects the quality and timing of their
implementation and exogenous factors, such as world copper prices, weather conditions, and the AIDS
epidemic. Zambia has not achieved its key objectives for 1997-2000--reducing inflation to single digit
levels and attaining a sustained economic growth rate of 4.5% per annum. Delays in privatization of the
mining industry and the continuing decline of copper production and prices, the effect of AIDS/HIV on
productivity and incomes, continuing macroeconomic uncertainty and governance issues had an adverse
impact on economic performance.
Approval and implementation of PSREP assumed maintenance of appropriate macroeconomic
management. However, macroeconomic management has been problematic and prices, interest rates and
exchange rates have continued to be volatile. Inflation was reduced from the triple digit levels of the first
half of the 1990s, to the 20-30% range during 1997-2000, but the Government has not been able to achieve
its goal of single digit inflation. This is largely because of inadequate fiscal and monetary management.
Fiscal processes are weak--from budgeting, through expenditure management to accounting. In addition,
state owned enterprises have continued to run large deficits and have failed to pay taxes. Monetary
management is passive, in the sense that adjustments in other monetary aggregates are not made to
compensate for larger than programmed financing of central government and state-owned enterprise
deficits. As a result, monetary expansion tends to be more rapid than planned, broad money growth has
been in the range of 20-30% and inflation is above target levels also in the range of 20-30%. The exchange
rate continued to be volatile, moving from 1,394 K/US$ at the end of 1997 to 4,157 at the end of 2000
before coming down to about 3,600 in March 2001. The 82-day T-bill rate has climbed from 22.3% at the
end of 1997 to 36.7% at the end of 2000. High real interest rates available on risk-free T-bills mean there
is virtually no long-term capital available to the private sector.
- 8 -



Growth of GDP averaged 1.8% over 1997-2000, reflecting drought in 1998 that contributed to a
2% decline in GDP that year, and continuing weakness of copper production and prices. Per capita
incomes declined during 1997-00 and the incidence of poverty increased from 69.2% in 1996 to 72.9% in
1999. However, the Zambian economy is beginning to show some signs of recovery. The economy grew
by 2.4% in 1999 and 3.5% in 2000 and the increase in poverty may have halted in 2000. More
encouraging, non-mining GDP increased by 5.1% in 1999 and 4.1% in 2000. With completion of
privatization of the mining industry and its ongoing revival, the stage may be set for more vigorous overall
GDP growth.  Government must play a positive role in supporting growth by: (1) maintaining
macroeconomic balance through appropriate fiscal and monetary policies; (2) completing the privatization
of state electric, telecommunications, petroleum, rail, and financial enterprises to eliminate their fiscal
burden and improve their efficiency and effectiveness; and (3) continuing the process of reforming and
strengthening the public sector.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
This credit was an adjustment operation.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
This credit was an adjustment operation.
4.5 Institutionial development impact:
Because this credit was an adjustment operation, the impact on institutional development was minimal.
The institutional development impact is rated modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Preparation and implementation of the project were adversely affected by a combination of
exogenous and endogenous factors.  The preparation of the project was delayed by weak macro
performance during 1997-98, and was in part due to exogenous factors, drought in 1998 and declining
copper prices. The project was approved in January 1999 after the signing of an MOU between the
Government and purchasers of the largest mining holdings in December 1998. The LDP contemplated
transfer to the new owners in March 1999, the labor retrenchment program was supposed to be completed
by March 2000. The transfer of assets was not completed until March 2000 and the retrenchment program
will not be completed until the end of March 2001. The delay was largely due to additional time needed to
find an external partner for Anglo American Corporation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Zambia's history of inadequate or inconsistent management has contributed to less than
satisfactory macroeconomic outcomes and the combination of Zambia's limited managerial and technical
skills and heavy aid dependence contributed to weak or unambitious project conditionality. PSREP did
facilitate the completion of the process of privatization of ZCCM. However, this could be viewed as a
rescue operation, fending off the worse altemative of bankruptcy and the possible closing of the mines. In
other areas gains were also made, albeit on a modest scale. PSREP helped redirect the public sector reform
process with production of Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP2000) whose implementation is now
being supported by IDA through the Public Sector Capacity Building (PSCAP). Improvements in DDB
and the investment approval process were useful.
-9-



Moreover, the effects of efforts to protect social services budgets remain to be seen. Weak
budgetary information and control systems provided a poor base for reform in this area. The existing
budget framework centered on operational budgets that provided detailed information for accounting
purposes but none on the nature of the programs. The actual size of the civil service was not known with
certainty so there was little basis for balancing wage and non-wage costs. The existing budget system did
not provide ready access to information on budget implementation (either compliance with ceilings or
distribution between programs), and the unclear role of accounting and audit personnel did not encourage
accountability of controlling officers. Some of these issues are being addressed in the Fiscal Sustainability
Credit.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency control:
The key agency responsible for privatization of ZCCM, ZPA, was superceded by presidential
decision, by a team of ZCCM officers. This led to a delay in the privatization process. However, as the
sale involved a buyer as well as a seller, and the buyer had requirements that could not be satisfied by the
seller alone, i.e., the presence of a foreign partner, it was not subject to implementation agency control.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Credit, in the amount SDR 122.7 million (S$ 170
million equivalent) was approved on January 26, 1999 and made effective on January 28, 1999. The
project provided SDR 122.7 million (US$170 million) to support economic reform and adjustment policies.
An initial tranche of SDR 49.9 million (US$65 million) was released on effectiveness on January 28, 1999;
a second tranche of SDR46.9 million (US$65 million equivalent) was released on April 3, 2000; and a
floating tranche of SDR28.9 million (about US$37.6 million) was disbursed on July 29, 1999.
The second tranche of the Credit was originally planned to be disbursed in May 1999. It was
actually disbursed in April 2000 as a result of ZCCM privatization delays. Meanwhile, other donors held
up their balance of payments assistance pending the outcome of ZCCM privatization. Consequently, the
exchange rate depreciated rapidly, fueling inflation in the country.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv rating:
Completion of the privatization of ZCCM and the ongoing recovery of the mining industry has set
the stage for sustained growth of the Zambian economy. Macroeconomic management has shown signs of
improvement since the privatization of ZCCM in March 2000. Zambia has met all IMF's PRGF
end-September 2000 quantitative and structural performance criteria and bechmarks. In 2000, real GDP
growth per capita was positive for the first time in many years. Zambia has qualified for HIPC debt relief
and its extemal debt service situation has been radically transformed for the better. The CG meeting held
in Lusaka was successful and sufficient extornal financing would seem to be ensured. Thus project
sustainability is rated likely.
But sustainability of growth would require continuation of the reform program; especially
completion of the privatization program involving the larger non-mining state enterprises, continued strong
macroeconomic management and progress on public sector management. The key area of uncertainty lies in
the political arena. Although in early May 2001, President Chiluba announced his decision not to run for a
third term, the discussion on changing the Constitution leading up to that decision had proved to be highly
divisive and could make it difficult to obtain and sustain a consensus in necessary key reforms. Moreover,
actions related to the elections that are viewed as contrary to democratic principles or the-rule of law, could
engender a negative response from the donor community.
- 10-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Zamnbia will continue to need balance of payment support for some time. However, in the context
of Poverty Reduction Support Credit, which would be designed to assist the Government to implement its
PRSP currently under preparation, the Bank would combine sectoral focus and technical
assistance/institution building features, longer time horizons and quick disbursements. The PSCAP APL
reinforced with balance of payments support, or sectoral approaches with multi-donor support, could also
be viewed as an important transitional operation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank was satisfactory. T'he actions supported by the operation were
consistent with the longer-term adjustment strategy and were implemented reasonably promptly and, in the
end ZCCM was privatized. The Bank used good judgment in delaying approval of the credit: the project
was scheduled to go to the Board by early 1998, but was postponed until January 1999, in concert with
Fund and bilateral donor actions, and until it was evident that final action on ZCCM privatization was
ensured. The credit was refocused to make ZCCM privatization the major action and public service reform
was appropriately de-emphasized.
However, except for ZCCM privatization, the project conditions cannot be said to have advanced
the reform agenda substantially.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank was very closely involved in and supervised all aspects of project implementation,
especially retrenchment of ZCCM workers. During the period from the project's effectiveness in January
1999 through the final transfer of assets in March 2000, the Bank effectively played a continuous and
critical supporting/mediating role. It also closely supervised and advised the public sector reform program
both through PSREP and the closely related PSCAP operation.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on 7.1 and 7.2, the overall rating is satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The program supported by the credit largely involved additional or further steps in ongoing reform
processes. The government was already familiar with these and prepared to take the next steps. The extent
of government preparation and commitment is evident in its Letter of Development Policy of December
1998 (Annex I of the MOP).
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In retrospect, replacement of the CEO of ZPA as the head of the negotiating team with the ex-CEO
of ZCCM was a misjudgment. His record of presiding over ZCCM's technical and financial disintegration
should not have inspired confidence. Not surprisingly, he vastly overestimated the worth of the company in
rejecting the Kafue consortium offer.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The key agency responsible for privatization of ZCCM, ZPA, was superseded by presidential
decision, by a team of ZCCM officers. This led to a delay in the privatization process.
- 11 -



7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Viewed against the project objectives, the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
However, viewed in the context of the entire reform program of the 1990's, the costly delays of ZCCM
privatization make this rating unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Dealing with deep-seated problems of weak technical and managerial capacity and governance such as
those faced by Zambia requires operations that combine sectoral focus and technical assistance/institution
building features, longer time horizons and quick disbursements.
*   Timing and strategy of privatization should be geared to country circumstances.  The implicit
privatization strategy followed in Zambia was to pursue the smaller, less controversial privatizations
first, leaving the technically and politically difficult privatizations (like ZCCM and the utilities) for
later. However, this means that the economic impact of privatization is likely to be small. The Bank
should consider whether governments could take the difficult, but more meaningful privatizations
earlier.
*   Viewed in the context of the narrow objectives of the project, the perfornance of IDA and of
Government is rated satisfactory because the objectives have been met. However, if the ZCCM
privatization is seen in the context of the entire reform program of the 1990s, the costly delays of
ZCCM privatization call into question this rating. As discussed in the background part of section 4.2,
a conundrum of issues arose with regard to the Bank's judgments for not forcibly intervening sooner
and to Government's motives in delaying the sale of ZCCM assets. It is possible that in this broader
context, the performance of the Bank and of the Government may not be satisfactory. It should be
noted that during this period, the Bank had to walk a thin line between playing a neutral role in the
on-going negotiations (in this case, between a sovereign government and various private foreign
companies) and fulfilling its development mandate by impressing upon policy makers to complete the
transaction earlier, given the urgency and magnitude of the ZCCM fiscal drain. There are critics
(mainly donors) who believe the Bank should have been prepared to use its balance of payments
support, or even its entire lending program as leverage when it became evident that the Government
was making a serious misstep in 1997. In particular, they believed that had the Bank intervened
forcefully in the matter of appointment of the ex-CEO of ZCCM to replace the CEO of ZPA as the
head of its negotiating team, the outcome would have been different. On the other hand, there are other
critics in the country who believed the Bank should not have forced the country to sell its crown jewel.
The Bank should thoroughly consider the downside risks, especially the Bank's reputation risk, before
engaging in any major privatization undertaking.
*   Policy advice and conditionality involving trade reform should consider the regional context. Because
its main regional trading partners lagged in their trade reform, the benefits of Zambia's own trade
reforms were limited, relative to the high fiscal costs.
*   Given existing weaknesses of budgetary procedures and processes, specifying budget allocations for
social sector ministries and programs will not ensure that the funds are received by the ministries or
spent for the purposes intended. This is part of the rationale for the reform of the budget process being
taken in the context of the Fiscal Sustainability Credits.
- 12-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
Communications should be addressed
To the Secretary to Treasury
Telephone 00 2601-250544,250945
250940,250946,254995,252121
Telex. ZA 42221
Fax 00 2601-253494-250012, 250719, 251078
Telegrams: FINANCE RIDGEWAY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
MEAL/102/ 11/23 8                                                P.O. BOX 50062
RIDGEWAY, 15101
CHIMANGA ROAD
LUSAKA
May 15, 2001
Mr. Hinh Dinh
Lead Economist for Zambia
Africa Region
World Bank
Washington DC
USA
Dear Mr. Dinh:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND
EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT No. 3167-ZA
Thank you for your letter and the attached draft ICR for PSREP dated May 7, 2001. I have reviewed the
ICR and have the following comments to make:
a) Quality of Entry: This paragraph gives the reader the impression that a full fledged Department
of Environment has been created in the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development. The situation is
that this is a section in the Mines Safety Department for the mining environment.
b) Support for the final phase of Privatization: Here the' investment holding company after
privatization of ZCCM is called ZCCM - Investment Holding Company Plc. Abbreviated as
ZCCM-IH Plc not CCM-ZIH.
- 13-



c) In Section 7.6 Government Implementation Performance: A reader gets the impression that the
ex-CEO of ZCCM replaced the CEO of ZPA as the head of the Privatization Agency itself rather than
being replaced as head of ZCCM privatisation program. This should be re-cast to reflect what
happened.
The ICR generally reflects the events that took place particularly the delays and the associated costs.
However, what seems to have been overlooked is the perception of the value of the Mines by the public in
Zambia and the mounting pressure which was brought to bear on the process. As indicated elsewhere in
the report the country was divided almost into half on whether the government was being wise to privatise
the mines let alone the modality of sale. The pressure invariable pushed Government to re-examine the
offices in the context.
On the other hand, ZCCM was the most complex privatization undertaken in Zambia if not in the whole of
Sub-Saharan Africa and therefore in Government's view we need to have acquired enough experience
before tackling it. However, this was not without cost given the inherent inadequacies and inefficiencies in
the State-Owned Enterprise (SOE).
What is critical now is that the process is behind us and the country is beginning to receive positive results
and effects from the sale to ZCCM. Copper production is picking up and ancillary industries on the
Copperbelt are now being resuscitated.
Yours sincerely,
I suu; . a.t X  
SECIdTA re      To7  I X W T   l .RI: VdRYt14
NI t N ISI   O    N   Nf ' V I E  N 1 ECON (Ol I  D1  f NUA, I    1XNI 
fb) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partner-s (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Gov-t revenue and expenditure as a share of                                 Domestic revenues rose from 18.8% of GDP
GDP                                                                         in 1998 to 21.6% of GDP in 2000 and
current expenditures declined from 17.3% of
GDP to 16.8% of GDP. Thus, overthe two
years, the current surplus improved from
1.4% to 4.7% of GDP. Overall deficit after
grants, however, worsened from -4.4% of
GDP in 1998 to -6.7% of GDP in 2000,
mainly due to the settlement of ZCCM
arrears that now became a part of Central
Govemment's obligations.
Extemal Reserves                                                            The reserves increased from 0.5 week of
imports in 1998 to 1 week of imports in 2000.
Inflation                                                                   CPI inflation increased from 26.8% in 1998
to 30.1% in 2001, after having improved to
25.2% in 1999 - due to the unfavorable
changes in the oil prices as well as the sharp
devaluabon of the Kwacha.
Extemal Debt and Debt service relative to                                   The stock of extemal debt decreased from
GDP                                                                         212% of GDP attheend of 1998to 183%of
GDP in 2000. In 2000, the Enchanced HIPC
Initiative for Zambia was approved.
Domestic Savings and Investment relative to                                 In 1998-2000, gross domestic fixed
GDP                                                                         investment rose from 15% to 17% of GDP.
Perceived quality of public services as                                     N/A
indicated by beneficiary assessments and
private sector climate surveys
Growth of non-tradibonal exports                                            The value of non-traditional exports dedined
by about 3% in 2000.
Copper and cobalt producton and exports                                     Having further contracted in 1999 and the
first haff of 2000, the metal production and
exports by the newly privatized mines picked
up, with 2000 copper production practically
reaching the 1999 level. ZCCM production,
which at the time of the takeover was about
90,000 tons/year, rose to 125,000 tons in
2000, and is expected to increase to 240,000
tons in 2001. Similar rates of growth are
expected for most other prvatized and new
mines.
Number of pubic sector companies offered                                    Within the Privatization Programme, by 31
for sale and sold/ liquidated                                               May 2000, the ZPA had privatised 244
companies and units and is currently working
on the following SOEs: Kafue
Textiles,Nitrogen Chemicals, ZAFFICO,
Lundazi Castle Hotel, Mukuba Hotel,
ZAMTEL, Zambia Railways, National
Airports Corporation (Ndola, Mfuwe &
Livingstone) and Zambia State Insurance
Corporation. In addition to these, there are
still a number of large complicated
transactions to be done such as ZANACO;
Mulobezi Railway; Indeni Oi Refinery;
Zambia National Oil Company;ZAMPOST
and ZESXO.
- 15 -



Direct foreign investment, in general and in                                   FDI contracted from US$ 198 milion in 1998
copper and cobat mining in particular                                          to US$ 126 million in 2000. However, lots of
progress was made and is expected in the
metal sector: KCM invested US$70 million in
nine months in 2000, plans to invest US$
183 million in 2001 and another US$ 128
million in 2002 in renewal and expansion. Its
total investment obligation is US$ 782 million
over six years.
School participation rates by age, sex and                                     Basic school enrollment increased by some
geographical distribution                                                      0.3 % per year in 1998-2000. Female
enrollment constitutes 48% of the total.
School achievement (as measured by pass                                        N/A
rates)
Infant and child mortality rates                                               1 14 per 1000 live births (1998)
Nutrition indicators, especially of children                                   children malnutrition: 24% for ages under 5
(1998)
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR         J         Actual/Latest Estimate
End of project
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million 
1. Balance of Payments support (credit 31670) - First  65.00        65.00
tranche, January 28, 1999
2. Floating tranche, July 29, 1999                   40.00          37.60
3. Second tranche, April 3, 2000                     65.00          65.00
Total Baseline Cost                                 170.00         167.60
Total Project Costs            170.00          167.60
Total Financing Required             170.00         167.60
- 17-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No normal financial or economic cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for this adjustment operation.
- 18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count             Specialty                       Progress        Objectivc
Identification/Preparation
1/1997                       6   2 Economists (HQ), 4 - Local          S               S
staff
Appraisal/Negotiation
9-10/1997                    6   2 Economists (HQ), 4 Sector           S               S
Specialists (HQ)
12/1997                     2   2 Economists (HQ)                     S                S
1/1998                      2   2 Economists (HQ)                     S                S
Supervision
11/1999                      2   2 Economists (HQ)                     S               S
1/2000                       2   2 Economists (consultants,            S               S
international)
ICR
3/2001                       1    2 Economists (I consultant,          S               S
intemnational)
(7) Staff:
[r   Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No, Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  68                          292
Appraisal/Negotiation                      102                          355
Supervision                                 14                           49
ICR                                          9                           30
Total                                      193                          726
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M--Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  * SU O M   O N  O NA
ISector Policies                          3 H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  C SU O M  O N  * NA
O Financial                               O H  C SU O M  O N  * NA
2 Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                               H       SU 0 M       N  0 NA
Social
ZI Povertv Reduction                O H  O SU 0 M  * N  C NA
O Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)           0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
FJ Private sector development             O H       SU 0 M  O N  0 NA
2 Public sector managementH               0     0 SU 0 M  0 N  C NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=I-[ighly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
* Lending                                           O11S*S   OU   OHU
O Supervision                                       OH IS * S  OU  OHU
O Overall                                           O HSS    OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rati ng
E Preparation                                       O lIS * S  O U  O HU
Li Government implementation performance            0 HS * s  0 U  C HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS OS   *  U  O HU
L Overall                                           O  ES * S  O U  0 HU
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR ZAMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND
EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT (Credit 31 67-ZM)
AIDE MEMOIRE
I.    Mr. David G. Greene, Consultant to AFTM I of the World Bank visited Lusaka from February 19
to March 10, 2001 to help Mr. Hinh Dinh, Task Team Leader, prepare an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for the Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Credit, (Cr. 3167-ZM) referred to as
PSREP. The mission's conclusions and recommendations are presented below. The mission thanks the
Government for its cooperation and invites it to prepare its own evaluation for inclusion in the ICR.
2.    The PSREP project provided SDR 122.7 million (US$170 million) to support economic reform
and adjustment policies. It was made effective on January 28, 1999. An initial tranche of US$65 million
was released on effectiveness; a second tranche of US$65 million was released on April 3, 2000; and a
floating tranche of US$37.6 million was disbursed on July 29, 1999. The mission reviewed with the
Government, other agencies involved in implementation, and stakeholders: (1) the performance of the
Government and other agencies involved in implementation of PSREP; (2) the performance of the Bank in
assisting implementation of the program;(3) the impact of the reforms supported; and (4) the lessons to be
drawn from implementation of the reform measures supported by PSREP.
3.    The PSREP credit was the seventh adjustment operation since March 1991. The credit supported:
(1) facilitation of the privatization of the state copper company, ZCCM, by assisting its labor reduction
program; (2) implementation of a Public Sector Reform Program designed to improve the affordability,
efficiency and efficacy of the public sector; (3) promotion of private investment and export-oriented
activities by streamlining investment approvals and improving access to imported inputs; and (4) protecting
the provision of social services by agreeing to and monitoring budgetary expenditures on key social
expenditures.
4.    The objectives and structure of the PSREP were altered between its formulation during the second
half of 1997 and its eventual approval in January 1999. Board Presentation of the project was delayed
because of uncertainties about the viability of the macroeconomic framework and the external financing
package. This could not be assured without a successful CG meeting and IMF agreement. With
preliminary agreement reached on the sale of a majority share of ZCCM's core assets and on a potential
IMF ESAF, and a successful CG meeting, the operation could go ahead. It was redesigned to focus
primarily on completion of ZCCM privatization, rather than public service reform. In light of tight BOP
situation and to help cover the cost of ZCCM's labor redundancy program, the credit was increased from
US$ 130 million to US$ 170 million. Tranches and their conditionality were modified. Board approval
and release of the first tranche was based on agreement on a Government program including completion of
ZCCM's privatization, progress of public sector reform, stimulation of exports private investment by
improving access to imported inputs and streamlining investment approvals, and agreeing on and
monitoring budget allocations for key social expenditures. Release of the second tranche would require
transfer of ownership and control of the remaining ZCCM core assets to the new owner, progress on
reorganization of ZCCM and on the redundancy plan. Release of the tranche was also linked to operation
of the revised investment export promotion measures and to actual social sector spending. Disbursement of
the added floating was linked to preparation and implementation of a revised Public Sector Reform
Program.
- 22 -



Achievement of Development Objectives and Outputs
5.    Facilitating privatization and reorganization of ZCCM. The Bank has a long record of supporting
and facilitating the privatization of ZCCM. Under the ERIP credit of 1995 the Government committed
itself to privatization and began to implement plans to privatize and restructure ZCCM. It retained
financial and legal advisors financed by Bank TA funds. Complete privatization of ZCCM took
considerably longer than expected, the last transaction having been completed on March 31, 2000. The
PSREP credit supported the final phase of privatization and reorganization of ZCCM in a manner
consistent with its post-privatization responsibilities. The credit provided that the US$ 65 million first
tranche would be on lent by Government to ZCCM million to retrench and retrain an estimated 7,337
workers. The reorganization plan agreed with the Bank was approved by the ZCCM Board in March 1999
and implemented after completion of privatization. ZCCM was converted from a mine operator into a
holding company, ZCCM-IH, responsible for monitoring its investments in the successor companies and
following up on commitments under the sales agreements. It also has a subsidiary that will temporarily
own and manage municipal services until the Government establishes a pennanent organization for that
purpose.
6.    During 1997-98, seven smaller packages of ZCCM's core assets were sold. However, sale of the
major package of assets, representing 75% of Zambia's mining assets, including the Konkola Division, the
largest producer of copper and cobalt, ran into an unexpected snag. In 1997, the Government replaced the
CEO of the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) with the ex-chairman and CEO of ZCCM as its lead
negotiator. The donor community was distressed at replacement of ZPA in the privatization process and
attributes the delay in completing the sale to this. High-level representations were made to the Government
by the donor community urging the President to rescind the action. This was considered an important "
governance" and "transparency" issue contributing to the suspension of bilateral program assistance to
Zambia. The Bank, however, did not press the Government on this point (even though it had supported the
creation and operation of the highly respected ZPA).
7.    The government negotiating team, under its new leadership, rejected an offer by a consortium of
companies (the Kafue consortium) and the privatization process stalled. In the meantime, ZCCM's
production and its finances continued in a tailspin. In late 1998 negotiations were begun with the South
African company, Anglo American Corporation (AAC) Plc, and in early 2000, after difficult negotiations
and division of the assets into two packages, AAC in partnership with IFC and CDC agreed to purchase a
package consisting of the Konkola and Nchanga Divisions, the Nampundwe Mine and Chingola Refractory
Ores. The company was also granted rights to develop the rich Konkola Deep property and it agreed to
manage the Nkana smelter and refinery under contract. It formed Konkola Copper Mines to manage its
Zambian activities. A second package, consisting of the Mufulira Division and Nkana mine and
concentrator, was sold to Glencore AG Ltd. and First Quantum Ltd, which formed a new company called
Mopani Copper Mines Plc. On March 31, 2000 all the properties were transferred to their new owners.
8.    The delay of the sale was very costly. During the three fiscal years prior to its eventual sale,
ZCCM experienced a cumulative operating loss of US$ 927 million and its equipment and infrastructure
continued to deteriorate. Copper production continued its downward trend, dropping from 321,600 tons in
1997 to 265,700 tons in 1999, greatly reducing the value of the company. The offer accepted was less
favorable than that rejected some two years before; partly because of the declining value of ZCCM as a
result of continued losses, deteriorating equipment and infiastructure, and declining copper prices, and
partly because government's willingness to sell increased because the fiscal burden of maintaining ZCCM
was not sustainable. The agreement with AAC provided a lower cash consideration, and contained
- 23 -



considerable concessions from Government, including a low, fixed power rate for 20 year, exemption from
taxes for five years, duty exemptions, assumption of ZCCM's outstanding commercial debt, agreement to
pay for retrenchment of redundant labor, and assumption of environmental liabilities.
9.    On March 31, 2000, the government had to assume ZCCM debts totaling about $770 million
consisting of US$ 273 million to suppliers (including ZESCO, Paris Club debt of US$ 298 million and
ZCCM's Governmnent guaranteed debt to multilateral agencies of US$ 195 million. The budget included K
424 billion in 2000, and K 270 billion in 2001 to pay off part of the debt to suppliers.
10.   The implementation of the labor reduction plan began in January 2000, before completion of the
sale of core assets. In March 2000 it was estimated that the cost of retrenchment would be US $3.5 million
more than the US$ 65 million provided. The Bank therefore agreed for Government to increase the loan to
ZCCM by US$3.5 million. As of June 2000, 4,825 redundant workers had been retrenched at a cost of
US$35.7 million. The completion of the retrenchment plan was suspended to allow the new owners to
identify workers to be retrenched. They were given until March 31, 2001 to identify workers they wanted
to retrench. Workers identified after that date would be the responsibility of the new owners. Largely due
to the devaluation of the kwacha, it is now estimated that total cost of retrenchment would be on the order
of US$ 61.5 million, leaving a balance of about USS 7 million. ZIH intends to ask the Government and
IDA to agree to use this for environmental cleanup.
11.   The delayed completion of privatization postponed recovery of the mines and therefore postponed
its positive impact on Zarnbia's economy for two years. Nevertheless, ZCCM privatization is now leading
to a rapid turnaround in copper production and economic activity in the copperbelt. Problems with
suppliers have been straightened out and rehabilitation and recapitalization of the mines is underway.
[KCM invested USS70 million in nine months in 2000, US$ 183 million in 2001 million and plans to invest
US$ 128 million in 2002 in renewal and expansion]. (Its total investment obligation was US$ 782 million
over six years.) KCM's production, which at the time of takeover was about 90,000 tons/year rose to
125,000 tons in 2000, and is projected at 240,000 tons in 2001. Similar rates of growth are expected for
most other newly privatized rnines. KCM reports it is using local banks and suppliers for its non-high tech
equipment
12.   According to both AAC and Ministry of Mines officials. the Bank and IFC played a critical
positive role in the last stages of privatization in 1999. Anglo reports that without Bank involvement, the
transaction might not have gone through. The Bank provided both comfort and financial assistance.
Assurances of Bank involvement in the financing of the retrenchment program and municipal services and
potentially in the critical railway and roads sectors reduced Anglo's potential costs. The approval of
PSREP was itself seen as an indicator of the Bank's confidence in Zambia. IFC's involvement was also
critical. Anglo was unwilling to go ahead without a partner and IFC's purchase of 7.5% of the equity
(CDC also purchased 7.5%) solved that problem. Moreover IFC's insistence that KCM have a world
standard environmental plan by March of 2000 was viewed positively.
13.   Privatization of Other State-Owned Enterprises ZPA reports that as of February 2001, 247 units
of its working portfolio of 299 units, had been sold, 19 had been or were being liquidated, negotiations had
been completed for three more, six were under negotiation, and 24 were under preparation. The
Govemment stated in its Letter of Development Policy that it would now focus privatization efforts on the
large utility companies, parastatals in the petroleum and transport sectors and financial institutions.
However, it appears that the political backlash from the ZCCM privatization makes early action on these
unlikely, certainly not before the presidential elections scheduled for October 2001. Most of these
privatizations are in early stages. Cabinet has directed ZPA to sell 20% of ZAMTEL's shares to minority
-24 -



shareholders, with the Government retaining management rights. However stock market regulations require
a minimum flotation of 25%. Concessioning of ZR has been approved by Cabinet and preparations for
inviting bids are underway. Cabinet has authorized the ZANACO's board to sell some shares and ZPA is
initiating procedures for 10% of the shareholdings. Privatization options for ZANACO are being prepared
for cabinet consideration. Terms of reference have been prepared for the new study of privatization options
for INDENI and TAZAMA and for restructuring ZNOC, lirniting it role to management of a thirty-day
strategic reserve of oil. Consultants have prepared a study of options for privatization of ZESCO.
14.   The economic impact of the privatization so far of the non-mining companies is a mixed bag and
taken as a whole is probably positive but small. Larger enterprises sold to well financed and technically
sophisticated borrowers are doing well, for example, cotton, dairy, sugar, brewing and cement, while
smaller enterprises are doing less well. However, privatization has reduced the actual and potential fiscal
burden of supporting unprofitable enterprises and given a clear signal to the private sector about the new
role of Government.
15.   Improving the public service by reforming pay, employment, and management controls. The
Zambian public service has been perceived by both insiders and outsiders as oversized, underpaid,
de-motivated, and therefore inefficient and ineffective or worse. The solution has been seen as reducing the
size of the civil service, using part of the savings to increase wages and decompress the wage scale and to
reorganize the Government ministries and agencies, and expand training to improve skills. A leaner, more
qualified, better-paid public service would then be expected to be more accountable for its performance and
decisions.
16.    A Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) was launched in 1993 the principal objective of which
was to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of the public service by restructuring and streamlining,
improving management and decentralizing and strengthening local Government. The Bank has supported
public sector reform in four previous adjustment operations dating back to 1991. PSRP was revised in
1997 with a target of reducing the civil service from 139,00 in mid 1997 to 80,000 by end-1999 (The target
figure was not reasonable since health, education and public safety workers accounted for 60% the
service). PSRP was strengthened, a hiring freeze was implemented, and about 16,000 casual employees
were retrenched in a voluntary separation.
17.   Recognizing that the public sector reform was too complex and lengthy a process to be treated
adequately in an adjustment operation, it was decided to de-emphasize PSRP in this operation and continue
Bank assistance under the Public Sector Capacity Building Project, PSCAP, approved in March 2000.
PSCAP has been structured as an APL with a 13-year implementation period. Agreement with IDA on a
revised PSRP, approval by cabinet and beginning its implementation were made conditions of release of the
floating tranche. This condition was fulfilled with the issuance in June 2000 of PSRP2000. It includes a
time bound action plan for 2000-02, including identification of responsible institutions or offices, and
defines management arrangements and will serve as a framework for PSCAP.
18.    Successful implementation of PSREP, as clarified in the minutes of negotiation, also included (i)
progress in reducing the public payroll in 1999, including retrenchment of pensionable civil servants, (ii)
initial implementation of improved payroll and management controls and (iii) beginning the actuarial review
of the pension system aimed at removing anomalies. These undertakings were accomplished. The size of
the civil service has been reduced from 137,000 in 1997 to about 102,000 at present. Interim steps were
taken to strengthen establishment and payroll controls and a plan was developed for medium term
improvements. An actuarial study of the public sector pension scheme was submitted to Government in
September 1999. The Government commissioned an in-depth study of the direction and required size of the
- 25 -



public service. With support of DFID, a comprehensive Management and Establishment Control project
was prepared for implementation in 2000.
19.   Promoting private sector activity, especially export trade, by improving access to imported inputs.
PSREP followed up on Bank efforts in prior adjustment operations to liberalize trade, reduce and
rationalize tariffs and promote investment and exports. The credit supported revamping of the funding
mechanism and procedures and documentation requirements of the duty drawback system (DDB) to ensure
adequate, timnely drawbacks. It also supported redefinition of manufacture under bond (MUB) to focus on
provision of duty free imports and linked to the revamped DDB scheme. Reform of the DDB and its
operating regulations were approved by parliament and regulations were issued and came into force on July
1, 1999. MOFED has been releasing funds to ZRA for the DDB since July 1999. DDB provides for
drawback of direct and indirect duties paid on imports used for direct and indirect exports. Each firm's
drawback is determined by a coefficient determined by a study of that firm. ZRA has established a unit to
administer the DDB and the system appears to be working well. By early 2001, 57 companies had
registered for drawbacks, of which 28 were active users and ZRA was paying drawbacks amounting to
approximately KI.5 billion per month. The processing time for drawbacks has been reduced from 180
days at the start of the system in March 1998 to 30 days. ZRA is planning to phase out MUB, since the
benefits provided by the DDB scheme are superior. The impact of DDB is difficult to measure, because its
effects can be swamped by other factors. Nevertheless, in contrast to a 20% growth rate over 1991-96,
NTEs declined from US$ 304 in 1997 to US$ 279 million in 2000. Significant declines were seen in
products, like cotton lint and yam, exported to neighboring countries whose economies have deteriorated
(Congo). Dollar value of exports to Europe, like fresh flowers and vegetables, were adversely affected by
decline of the euro relative to the dollar.
20.    PSREP also supported improving the institutional base for investment by streamlining the approval
process. The Zambia Investment Center has investigated altemative structures to facilitate investment.
Cabinet gave approval in August 1999 to restructuring the Investment Center. Although agreement could
not be reached on establishing a "one stop shop," a virtual one shop stop has been established by having
key authorizing and licensing entities meet together regularly to approve investment certificate applications.
The number of private investment pledges registered by the Investmnent Center dropped from 122 in 1999 to
107 in 2000 and the value fell from $160 million in 1999 to $105 million in 2000. The decline is attributed
to the unstable macroeconomic environment and withdrawal of special incentives from the Investment Act
of 1996. However, the Investment Center claims that the pledges are now of higher quality and more are
likely to be realized.
21.    Strengthening delivery of social services by monitoring key budget allocations and supporting
policy reform. Beginning with the 1994 ESAC, every adjustment operation has included provisions to
protect social sector budget allocations. Under agreements reached in previous adjustment operations, the
share of non wage expenditures for social services in the discretionary budget (tax revenues less domestic
debt service, contingency reserve, provisions for payment of 1998 arrears, civil service pay award and
awards against Government made in courts of law) increased from 28% in 1993 to 36% in 1997 and 1998.
Under PSREP budgetary spending for these categories was to be maintained at 36% 1999 and specifically
protected from budget cuts. Monitored treasury releases of funds indicated that this target was met. In
addition, actual budget releases for seven social sector programs identified in the LDP exceeded the
minimum amounts specified. Satisfactory implementation was a condition of release of the second tranche.
22.    As indicated in the LDP, the Government has adopted new eligibility criteria and implementation
guidelines for the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme. A National Poverty Reduction unit has been
- 26 -



established in the MCDSS to coordinate implementation of the poverty reduction effort. The total budget
for PWAS, equivalent to less than one million dollars is totally inadequate, given the extent of poverty in
Zambia. However the Government plans to increase funding to K18.6 billion in 2001, using HIPC
resources.
23.   Because of weaknesses in the budgetary process, it is not clear what the effect of these
requirements has been. Since the budget tends to under-fund some unavoidable expenditures and it is a
relatively simple matter to reallocate funds within Ministries, actual composition of expenditures by
program and category cannot be known until the audited accounts are available some 18 months after the
end of the fiscal year. For example, personal remuneration is often under-funded. When ministries receive
their budget releases, they can use a larger than budgeted proportion to pay wages, cutting non-wage
outlays. This may account for the perceptions expressed by the "protected" ministries that they are
receiving less than budget authorizations, even though data on releases indicate otherwise.  These
weaknesses are being addressed in the current adjustment credit, Fiscal Sustainability Credit I.
24.   Despite protection of ministerial budgets, real per capita government spending on health and
education has been eroded by inflation at the same time the AIDS epidemic has placed great stress on the
health and education systems.  This has contributed to deteriorating health indicators and stagnant
educational attainment. A recent survey indicated that about 20% of the nation's population is HIV
infected--29% in urban areas and 14% in rural areas. Life expectancy at birth has declined from 43 years
in 1995 to 40 years in 1999. The infant mortality rate has increased from 107 per 1000 live births in 1990
to 114 in 1998 and in many areas one in four children (lie before that age of five. Malnutrition is
widespread: almost half the children are stunted and a fourth are underweight. There has been little change
in the matemal mortality rate, which stands at 649 per 100,000 births. Education indicators have stagnated
during the 1990s. The total illiteracy rate increased slightly, from 37% in 1991 to 38% in 1998. The
primary school net enrollment rate has remained stable at 68%Xo over the same period.
Impact of the Project
25.   Evaluation of the impact of the latest adjustment operation in a long series is difficult to measure.
Zambia's economic performance reflects the cumulative impact of the reforms undertaken since 1991. The
effects of these reforms reflect both the quality and timing of their implementation and exogenous factors,
such as world copper prices, weather conditions, and the AIDS epidemic. The Zambian Government's
objectives included reducing inflation to single digit levels and attaining a sustained economic growth rate
of 4.5% per annum. Neither of these objectives was attained for 1997-2000. Delays in privatization of the
mining industry and the continuing decline of copper production and prices, the effect of AIDS/HIV on
production, productivity and incomes, continuing macroeconomic uncertainty and govemance issues had an
adverse impact on economic performance and neither the inflation nor growth objective was attained.
Nevertheless, the Zambian economy is beginning to show some signs of recovery.
26.   Indirect Effects. As in all adjustment operations, approval and implementation of the project
depends on maintenance of appropriate macroeconomic management. Although this condition has been
considered fulfilled, macroeconomic management has, in fact, been problematic, and as a result, prices,
interest rates and exchange rates have continued to be volatile. Nevertheless, some progress has been
made. Inflation has been reduced from the triple digit levels of the first half of the 1990s, to the 20-30%
range during 1997-2000, but the Government has not been able to achieve its goal of single digit inflation.
This is largely because of inadequate fiscal and monetary management. Fiscal processes are weak --from
budgeting, through expenditure management to accounting. In addition, state owned enterprises have
continued to run large deficits and fail to pay taxes. Monetary management is passive in the sense that
- 27 -



adjustments in other monetary aggregates are not made to compensate for larger than programmed
financing of central Government and state owned enterprise deficits. As a result, monetary expansion tends
to be more rapid than planned, broad money growth has been in the range of 20-30% and inflation is above
target levels also in the range of 20-30% (30% in 2000). The exchange rate continued to be volatile,
moving from 1,394 K/US$ at the end of 1997 to 4,157 at the end of 4000. The 82-day T-bill rate has
climbed from 22.3% at the end of 1997 to 36.7% at the end of 2000. High real interest rates available on
T-bills put a damper on long term lending and adversely affected domestic investments.
27.   GDP growth averaged 1.8% over 1997-2000, despite a drought in 1998 that contributed to a 2%
decline in GDP that year, and continuing weakness of copper production and prices. With population
growth possibly ranging between 2.0 and 3.0 % per annum, per capita incomes declined during 1997-00
and the incidence of poverty increased from 69.2% in 1996 to 72.9% in 1999 . However the economy grew
by 2.4% in 1999 and 3.5% in 2000 and the increase in poverty may have halted in 2000. More
encouraging, non-mining GDP increased by 5.1% in 1999 and 4.1% in 2000. With completion of
privatization of the mining industry and it ongoing revival, the stage is set for more vigorous overall GDP
growth. Government will play a positive role in supporting growth by: (1) maintaining macroeconomic
balance through appropriate fiscal and monetary policies; (2) completing the privatization of state electric,
telecommunications, petroleum, rail, and financial enterprises to eliminate their fiscal burden and improve
their efficiency and effectiveness; and (3) continuing the process of reforming and strengthening the public
sector.
28.   Direct Impact of PSREP. If PSREP did nothing more than facilitate the completion of the process
of privatization of ZCCM, it could be considered a success. In the area of public sector reform, PSREP
helped redirect the process with production of the PSRP2000 paper and the transition to support of reform
to PSCAP. Modest gains were made in promotion of exports (through improvement of the DDB) and
investment (with some improvements in the investment approval process). However, the effects of efforts
to protect social services budgets were probably more symbolic than real.
Government's Contribution to the ICR.
29.   The Bank would appreciate receiving the Government's contribution to the ICR, not later than
March 27, 2001. This contribution will be included in the ICR and presented to the Bank's Executive
Directors
March 9, 2001
Lusaka, Zambia
For the Government of Zambia            For the Bank
-28 -



