Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7286-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 122.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT
December 30, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Zambia Kwacha (K)
US$ 1=2,33 7.95
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC          Anglo-American Corporation
BOZ          Bank of Zambia
BW           Bonded Warehouse
COMESA       Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
CPI          Consumer Price Inflation
DDB          Duty Drawback
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ERIPTA       Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical Assistance Credit
ESAC         Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
HIPC         Highly Indebted Poor Countries
IDA          International Development Association
IDF          Import Declaration Fee
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MCDSS        Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MMD          Movement for Multiparty Democracy
MOU          Memorandum of Understanding
MUB          Manufacturing-under-EBond
NFNC         National Food and Nutrition Commission
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PER          Public Expenditure Review
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PIRC         Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits
PSRP         Public Sector Reform Program
PWAS         Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
SAF          Structural Adjustment Facility
SIP          Sector Investment Program
SPA          Special Program of Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
ZCCM         Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZPA          Zambia Privatization Agency
Vice President:                                        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:                                      Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                                        Ataman Aksoy
Task Team Leader:                                      Sudhir Shetty



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBL4
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORMAND EXPORTPROMOTION CREDIT
Table of Contents
L. THE ECONOMY ......................................1
A. BACKGROUND .....................................                                                I
B. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS .....................................                         2
II. ZAMBIA'SADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .....................................                               4
A. MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT .....................................                                  5
B. PRIVATIZITIONANDPARASTATALMANAGEMENT .....................................                      6
C. IMPROVINGPUBLICSERVICES .....................................                                   8
D. FOSTERING PRIVATESECTOR GROWTH .....................................                            9
E. MEDIUM TERMPROSPECTSAND FINANCING PLAN ......................................I.I
IM. THE PROPOSED CREDIT ..................................                                       11
A. SUPPORTING ZCCM PRIVATIZATION ............................ 12
B. PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM ............................ 13
C. INVESTMENTAND EXPORT PROMOTION ..........................................1... 14
D. SOCIAL SERVICES ...............................                                                15
E. POVERTYIMPACT .............................. I                                                  6
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ...............................                                           17
G. SPECIFIC AGREEMENTS ...............................                                            17
H. IMPLEMENTA TiON ARRANGEMENTS ............................ .. 18
. IMPLEMENTA TION ASSISTANCE ..............................                                       1 8
J. COFINANCING ..............................1  9
K. PROGRAM BENEFITS ANDRISKS ..............................R.                                     19
IV. BANKOPERATIONS ..............................                                                 19
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF ..............................                                         21
VI. RECOMMENDA TION ..............................                                               22
A          .NNEXES .............................. 23
A. SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
B. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
C. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
D. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
E. EVOLUTION OF POLICY REFORM AGREEMENTS
F. ZAMBIA AT A GLANCE
G. MATRIX OF POLICY AGREEMENTS
H. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. LETrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Sudhir Shetty (Principal Economist and Task
Manager, AFTM I); Emile Sawaya (Principal Private Sector Specialist, AFTPI); Charles Husband (Senior
Financial Analyst, EMTIE); Harry Gamett (Senior Public Management Specialist, AFT12); John Todd
(Principal Economist, SRMSG); Hinh Dinh (Principal Economist, AFTM I), Aberra Zerabruk (Senior
Counsel, LEGAF); Said Al-Habsy (Senior Counsel, LEGAF), Steve Gaginis (Disbursement Officer,
LOAAF), Ligia Murphy (Senior Task Team Assistant, AFTM 1) and Kendall Schaefer (Research Analyst,
AFTMI)
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in  the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ZAMBIA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT
SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency:    Ministry of Finance
Amount and Terms:   SDR 122.7 million (US$170 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Description:         The proposed adjustment Credit would support Zambia's
economic reform program, which aims at reducing the
widespread poverty by promoting broadly-shared, private
sector-led growth and improving the delivery of vital social
services. In particular, the proposed Credit would support
measures that would: (a) facilitate completion of the
privatization of the copper parastatal, ZCCM, by assisting in its
labor reduction program; (b) improve the performance of the
public service by reforming pay and employment practices and
improving management controls; (c) promote private
investment, particularly in export-oriented activity, by
improving access to imported inputs and streamlining
investment approvals and, (d) strengthen the delivery of social
services by monitoring budget allocations to key social
expenditure categories and supporting key policy reforms.
Benefits:            The main benefits of this Credit will be faster economic
growth, employment creation, and poverty reduction arising
from a more efficient and effective public sector (ZCCM
privatization and public service reforms), a more competitive
private sector and fewer barriers to investment (ZCCM
privatization and trade and investment reforms), mitigation of
the adverse impacts of ZCCM privatization (support to its
labor reduction program), and more effective social service
delivery and safety net provisions (monitoring of budget
allocations and social service policy reforms). These changes
would benefit all groups in the population, including the
poorest. They would also provide the basis for sustaining
macroeconomic stability and the expansion and diversification
of exports. Consequently, Zambia's prospects for sustainable
medium-term growth would be enhanced.



- ii -
Risks:               There are two broad categories of risk. First, it is possible that
the Government's reform program could falter due to policy
reversal, the impact of major external shocks, or a continuing
shortfall in external donor support due to either economic or
governance related concerns. The commitment of the
Government to economic reforms has been steadfast even in
the face of adverse external conditions, including the recent
collapse in copper prices. Completion of the privatization of
ZCCM, and efforts to expand non-mining exports would also
help withstand the effects of adverse external shocks. The
Government has committed to continuing the dialogue with
donors on governance-related issues, and developments in this
area will be closely monitored. The second set of risks relate
to the reforms supported by this Credit. The risk that the sale
of the remaining core ZCCM assets could be delayed beyond
mid-1999 is mitigated by the detailed agreemnents that have
been reached. And, the risk that the agenda and timetable for
public service reforms could pose political problems is
mitigated by the Government's continuing consultations with
all major stakeholders during program formulation and
implementation as well as its reliance on continued support
from the Bank and other external partners.
Disbursement:        The proposed Credit will be disbursed through the Bank of
Zambia. Disbursement will be in three tranches. The first
tranche (US$65 million) will be released at effectiveness. The
floating tranche (US$40 million) will be released when the
specific conditions related to public service reform are
satisfied. The second tranche (US$65 million) will be
disbursed when the specific conditions associated with its
release are met, which is expected to be around May 1999.
Project ID Number:   ZM-PA-35641



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTASSOCIA TION
REPORTAND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA PROPOSED
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORMAND EXPORTPROMOTION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Zambia for SDR 122.7 million (US$170
million equivalent) in support of its economic reform program. The Credit would be on
standard IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40 years, including a grace period of
10 years.
2.    The proposed Public Sector Reform Export Promotion Credit (PSREP) would be
the seventh structural adjustment credit to Zambia since the clearance of its arrears to the
Bank in March 1991. Zambia continues to face very large external financing needs due
to its high debt service requirements and the steep decline in the price of its principal
export--copper. In recognition of this need and of the accomplishments of Zambia's
economic reform program, the international community provided exceptional levels of
balance of payments support between 1991 and 1997. The objective of this Credit is to
continue IDA's support of Zambia's program of economic reform, which aims to reduce
the widespread poverty in Zambia through measures aimed at promoting broadly-shared,
private sector-led growth and improving the delivery of vital social services. In
particular, the proposed Credit would support measures to: (a) facilitate completion of
the privatization of the copper parastatal, ZCCM, by assisting in its labor reduction
program; (b) improve the performance of the public service by reforming pay and
employment practices and strengthening management controls; (c) promote private
investment, particularly in export-oriented activity, by improving access to imported
inputs and streamlining the investment approval process; and (d) strengthen the delivery
of social services by monitoring budget allocations to key social expenditure categories
and supporting the implementation of selected policy reforms.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. BACKGROUND
3.    From Independence in 1964 through the 1980s, Zambia relied on a development
strategy that emphasized central planning, public ownership, and foreign borrowing. The
economy's performance was also adversely affected throughout this period by the heavy
dependence on copper, despite its falling real price and declining production as a result of
insufficient investment. Zambia undertook several partial economic reform programs
during the 1980s, but these had little lasting effect (except to increase the national debt).
When elections were called in late- 1991, Zambia was suffering from a large external debt
overhang (over US$7 billion), an inefficient and highly protected parastatal sector that



- 2 -
dominated the economy, continued dependence on copper, steadily declining per capita
income (half its 1975 level), and an unwillingness on the part of its government to hold
the course on difficult but necessary policy reforms. The election of the opposition party,
the Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD), was seen as an overwhelming
endorsement of its economic reform program. Its objectives were to restore internal and
external balance, to reduce public sector involvement in business activity, and to focus
government efforts on establishing the enabling environment for the private sector and on
providing the necessary infrastructure and social services.
4.    Zambia's overall economic policy performance has been good since the reform
program was initiated in 1991. In particular, the pace of liberalization and decontrol has
been impressive. Prices were decontrolled and subsidies eliminated; the exchange rate
and interest rates are now market determined; quantitative restrictions on imports have
been eliminated; and, import tariffs have been reduced and their structure simplified.
Parastatal monopolies have ended, crop marketing has been liberalized, and an ambitious
privatization program has made impressive progress. Not everything has gone smoothly,
however. It took several years for the high rates of inflation to be brought down, and
macroeconomic stability, including consistently low inflation rates, is still to be fully
achieved. Structural reforms also remain incomplete, particularly where institutional
changes are required, as with public service reform. And, the investment and output
response to these reforms has been muted by high real interest rates, continued
deterioration in the performance of the copper mines, a series of droughts, and aid
shortfalls. Although growth resumed in 1996 and 1997, the delay in privatizing the
copper mines, the fall in world copper prices, and the continued suspension of bilateral
balance of payments support have tested the Government's commitment to the reform
program and its ability to keep the program on track in 1998. Despite these challenges,
understandings have been reached at the staff level with the IMF on a policy program to
be supported by a three-year ESAF arrangement for 1999-2001.
B. RECENTDEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
5.    The Government's economic reform program has remained on course since the
second half of 1996 despite much lower external assistance than anticipated. Bilateral
donors initially suspended balance of payments assistance in June 1996, largely in
response to concerns about the proposed conduct of presidential elections later that year.
This hiatus extended into 1997 and 1998 in response to continued concerns about
political governance. In 1998, multilateral balance of payments support was also held up
due to the delays in privatizing ZCCM. Consequently, external program support, which
was only US$141 million in 1996 (less than half the original estimate), was even lower in
1997 (US$120 million), and was negligible in 1998.
6.    Despite the drop in external assistance, economic performance was encouraging
in 1997, and by the end of the year, it looked like Zambia was well placed to move
beyond stabilization to deepening the structural reforms needed to accelerate growth.
Although GDP growth slowed to 3.5 percent (from 6.5 percent in 1996), due to a poor
maize harvest and a fall in metals production, it was the first time since 1989 that GDP



- 3 -
had grown in consecutive years. Non-metal exports continued their impressive growth --
about 30 percent in 1997 and over 25 percent p.a. since 1994. And, inflation continued to
decline, with the twelve-month CPI inflation rate falling from 35 percent at end-1996 to
less than 19 percent at end- 1997. The tight fiscal and monetary policy stance that was
maintained during much of 1997 contributed to this reduction in inflation. The overall
central government deficit (on a cash basis) was reduced to about 1.9 percent of GDP
(from 2.5 percent of GDP in 1996), while a domestic budget surplus (on a cash basis, and
excluding grants, external interest payments and foreign-financed capital expenditures) of
about 1.2 percent of GDP was registered. Tight financial policies also helped curb
imports, and despite the fall in copper prices in the second half of 1997, the trade deficit
fell. But, the current account deficit widened to 5.5 percent of GDP (from 3.6 percent in
1996) due to a fall in net transfers and a deterioration in the services account.
7.    However, a combination of adverse shocks -- internal and external -- has slowed
the economy and worsened external and internal imbalances during the past year. Copper
prices have fallen by almost 25 percent since mid-1997, while ZCCM's operational and
financial problems and the delay in completing its privatization have reduced copper
production and exports. This decline in the copper mining sector has hurt other sectors of
the economy, and combined with the weather-related decline in maize production, GDP
is estimated to have contracted in 1998 by about 2 percent. The fall in foreign exchange
earnings from copper exports (of over 27 percent) has been exacerbated by the fall in
non-traditional exports. Combined with the lack of balance of payments support, these
factors have resulted in the Kwacha depreciating in nominal terms by over 50 percent in
1998, while official foreign exchange reserves fell from about 2 months of imports at
end- 1 997 to less than 2 weeks of imports by end-November 1998. The current account
deficit (after transfers) worsened to over 9 percent of GDP. Meanwhile, average annual
inflation rose to almost 30 percent by end-November 1998. Although efforts were made
to maintain a tight fiscal stance in 1998, the lack of balance of payment support meant
that the domestic fiscal balance and the overall central government deficit deteriorated in
1998. The decline in confidence in the Kwacha since late- 1997 has been reflected in the
rapid growth of foreign currency deposits as a share of broad money while the easing of
monetary policy in late-1997 also led to an expansion of credit growth.
8.    Progress on structural reform has been most substantial in recent years on
privatization and trade policy. By December 1998, almost 80 percent of the 280 non-
mining public enterprises slated for divestiture had been privatized or liquidated. The
privatization of the publicly-owned copper company, ZCCM, suffered a setback in mid-
1998 when an international consortium withdrew from negotiations on the sale of the
largest asset package, but this process has moved ahead with an agreement in December
to sell these assets to other buyers. With the trade policy reforms since 1995, including
the elimination of the 5 percent Import Declaration Fee in July 1998, Zambia now has a
trade regime that is one of the most outward oriented in the sub-region.
9.    The incidence of poverty in Zambia remains high, reflecting the collapse of the
copper industry and the residual effects of the economic mismanagement of the 1970s
and 1980s. In 1991, about 70 percent of all Zambians were living in poverty with 58
percent of the population lacking sufficient income even to meet basic nutritional needs.



-4 -
Recent data show a slight decrease in poverty. After increasing to about 74 percent in
1993, poverty incidence fell to about 69 percent in 1996 with decreases in rural and urban
poverty between 1991 and 1996. The depth and severity of poverty also declined during
this period. Rural poverty still remains more widespread and more severe than urban
poverty. Most social indicators mirror the high incidence of poverty. Infant mortality,
adult illiteracy and malnutrition all remain extremely high and the prevalence of
HIV/AIDS has exacerbated the situation.
10.   Zambia's medium-term prospects have to be assessed in light of its resources as
well as the policy challenges that remain. Its advantages include ample arable land and
rainfall, abundant raw materials, and a liberalized policy environment. Accelerating
growth will require policies aimed at ensuring macroeconomic stabilization, completing
the privatization process, especially of ZCCM, improving infrastructure, and enhancing
the quality and coverage of public services. However, even with a supportive policy
environment and consistent donor support, the legacies of over two decades of economic
mismanagement and the current unfavorable external environment mean that GDP is
projected to grow at only about 4.5 percent per year in 1999-2001. Sustained economic
growth and poverty reduction will come about only with steady policies and consistent
action over a number of years combined with accelerated debt relief.
HI. ZAMBIA 'SADJUSTMENTPROGRAM
11.   Zambia's economic reform program aims to achieve a significant and sustained
improvement in the living standards of the population through broadly-shared, private
sector-led growth. Attaining this goal, in turn, will depend on achieving and maintaining
a stable macroeconomic environment, improving the climate for private investment
through liberalizing markets, privatizing commercial enterprises, investing in human
capital and physical infrastructure, and making progress toward long-term external
viability.
12.   Zambia has successfully implemented many aspects of its reform program,
particularly in the areas of liberalization and privatization. The emphasis has now shifted
from instituting "stroke of the pen" policy measures to undertaking the more complicated
agenda of institutional strengthening and program implementation. On macroeconomic
management, the focus is shifting to improving budgetary management, enhancing
monetary control, and strengthening the financial system, building on support from
previous IDA adjustment operations. Many sectoral reforms are being supported by
investment projects as described in Section IV below, and in several key sectors these are
also being supported under sector investment programs (SIPs). SIPs are under
implementation for the health, agriculture and roads sectors, a Power Sector
Rehabilitation Prograrn will begin implementation shortly, and a SIP is under preparation
for basic education.
13.   The current reform program builds on these accomplishments. The status of the
economic reform program, along with future actions, is summarized below under four



- 5 -
general headings: macroeconomic management; privatization and parastatal
management; improving public services; and, fostering private sector growth.
A. MACROECONOMICMANAGEMENT
14.   The domestic fiscal balance has improved steadily from a deficit of 4.2 percent
of GDP in 1993 to a surplus of about 0.6 percent of GDP in 1998'. In the same period,
the overall (cash) deficit of the central government, excluding grants, has fallen from 13.6
percent of GDP to about 9 percent of GDP. While this improvement is commendable,
particularly in the light of the difficult circumstances in 1998, several aspects of fiscal
adjustment still need to be addressed. Tax revenues have fallen from 19.8 percent of
GDP in 1994 to 17 percent in 1998 and a number of tax exemptions, which were granted
in 1998 but later revoked, further threatened the revenue base. The significant
compression in non-wage expenditures, particularly domestically-financed public
investment, since 1994 points to the need to reduce the size of the public sector and
contain the wage bill. Finally, fiscal management performance has fluctuated widely
during the adjustment period, prolonging the time taken to reduce inflation.
15.   The Governnent's fiscal targets for 1999-2001 are to maintain a domestic budget
surplus of, on average, about 1.3 percent of GDP and to reduce the overall deficit to
below 1 percent of GDP (including grants) by 2001, from almost 4 percent in 1998.
Strengthening tax administration and public expenditure management will be key to
achieving these objectives and to strengthening overall fiscal management. Tax
administration will need to improve to increase effective tax yields, particularly with
respect to income and corporate taxes. The public expenditure management system will
need to be strengthened by improving the linkages between the cash budget and
committed expenditures, thereby avoiding the build-up of new domestic arrears.
16.   On revenue, the challenge over the medium term is to continue the restructuring
of the tax system while increasing its ratio to GDP. The government will build on the
progress recently made in restructuring the tax system, which will involve a further shift
of the incidence of taxation toward consumption and away from international trade.
Given the limited scope to raise tax rates further, the bulk of revenue improvements will
need to be found in the strengthening of tax administration and elimination of
exemptions.
17.   To be sustainable, reductions in expenditures will need to be accompanied by
restructuring to safeguard priority spending on social sectors and infrastructure
investments. A specific area where budgetary savings need to be achieved is in the
public service wage bill. The reduction in the size of the public service (even with some
increases in wage levels) will allow the government to reduce the wage bill to about 25
percent of total domestic non-interest expenditures in 2001 from about 38 percent in
1996-98. In addition, the reduction in the stock of domestic debt and declining interest
Defined as the difference between revenues, excluding grants, and expenditures, excluding external
interest and foreign-financed capital.



- 6 -
rates will lead to a drop in interest payments of about 0.75 percentage points of GDP
between 1998 and 2001. Both of these will create room for the needed increases in
domestically-financed public investment and social expenditures. Public investment is
projected to increase to 7.4 percent of GDP by 2001 (from 6.1 percent in 1998) in the
context of a medium-term public investment program.
18.   Following the setbacks in restoring macroeconomic stability in 1998, the key
objectives for monetary policy will be to assist in regaining control over inflation and
rebuilding external reserves. To this end, the monetary policy stance will be tightened in
1999 by controlling the growth of net domestic assets of the banking system. To allow
sufficient growth in private-sector credit, the increase in the government's claims on the
banking system will be regulated. The Bank of Zambia also intends to intensify its use of
open market operations while maintaining positive real interest rates on Treasury bills.
19.   Reflecting growing concerns over the financial weakness of the commercial
banking sector, the priority in the financial sector will be strengthening prudential
oversight of the banking system. Several banks have closed in recent years, while others
have failed to meet the increased minimum capital requirements. Decisive actions to deal
with the weak institutions and to strengthen banking supervision in the Bank of Zambia
will be required to ensure that the banking sector can support the projected increase in
private sector economic activity.
20.   With import restrictions reduced and foreign exchange controls removed (with
support from previous adjustment operations), the focus in the external sector is shifting
to establishing a viable long-term balance of payments position. This requires
developing the capacity to withstand external shocks due to adverse weather and falling
copper prices, as well as reducing Zambia's dependence on copper receipts and donor
assistance by strengthening non-metal exports. Building external reserves will be a key
element of this strategy along with the maintenance of a market-determined exchange
rate. Bank of Zambia operations in the exchange market will be aimed at achieving the
desired accumulation of reserves and smoothing short-term fluctuations in the exchange
rate. Reserves will not be used to defend the exchange rate if it appears out of line with
market fundamentals and the longer-term goal of external viability, but policies will be
adjusted if exchange rate developments jeopardize the inflation objective or reduce the
profitability of the tradable goods sector.
B. PRIVATIZATIONAND PARASTA TAL MANAGEMENT
21.   The privatization program is well advanced in Zambia. At the outset of the
program, the government enacted a sound legal framework and established a semi-
autonomous privatization agency, the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA). Significant
progress has been made in implementing the privatization program, which started in 1993
with a list of 138 companies to be privatized, and has increased in late 1998 to a portfolio
of about 280 entities. Of these, 223 entities have been privatized or liquidated. The
program will now focus on completing the sale of the remaining assets of Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mining Ltd. (ZCCM), the copper mining parastatal, privatization of



- 7 -
the utilities, and on increasing private sector involvement in the provision of
infrastructure services.
22.   By far the single most important privatization transaction that has been attempted
so far is that of ZCCM. When the current government came to power in 1991, ZCCM
was facing deep-rooted operational, managerial and financial problems, including
undermaintained plant and equipment; aging technology; declining identified ore reserves
(despite an abundant resource base); low productivity; declining profitability; excessive
debt; conflicting commercial and social objectives; and surplus labor. The company's
labor complement was about 57,000, and the annual productivity level was 6.8 tons of
copper per employee, low by world standards. The management appointed by the new
Government attempted to improve ZCCM's performance, but failed, and in 1995, the
Government decided to privatize ZCCM in order to mobilize the capital, technology and
management needed to restore the company and the copper mining sector to financial and
operational health.
23.   To accomplish this, the Government and the minority shareholders (mainly Anglo
American Corporation - AAC), on the recommendation of the international investment
bankers (financed under IDA's Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Technical
Assistance Credit (ERIPTA), approved in FY96), adopted a two-stage Privatization Plan
for ZCCM. During the first stage, ZCCM would dispose of majority interests in its
mining assets by unbundling the latter and offering them for sale to qualified private
investors. In the second stage after the disposal of these packages, the residual ZCCM
would become an investment holding company that would collect outstanding
receivables, settle all outstanding liabilities, oversee the Government's minority interest
in the privatized companies, and implement a program to reduce the residual labor force
from about 7,400 people (eighteen percent of ZCCM's current labor force) to about 30 by
mid-1999. Subsequently, the Government's shares in "ZCCM Investment Holding"
would be sold through public flotations to the Zambian public and other investors.
24.   The first stage of this plan is well under way. The company's operations have
been split into packages. Two of the packages (Konkola North Mine Development area
and Konkola Deep Mining Project) were subject to direct negotiations with major
international mining companies. Bids were called for the other packages by end-
February 1997, and the investor response was favorable. Konkola North was sold to a
South African mining company, and due diligence work and negotiations for Konkola
Deep was undertaken by AAC under the provisions of a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) with ZCCM/Government. Several of the publicly offered packages and other
major assets have been sold (LuanshyalBaluba Mine, Kansanshi Mine, the Power
Division, Chibuluma Mine, Chambishi acid and cobalt plants, and the Precious Metals
Plant). Negotiations for the sale of the other major packages are at an advanced stage and
Memoranda of Understanding have been signed with two prospective buyers. The
Government currently is aiming to transfer the remaining assets currently under
negotiation by the end of the first quarter of 1999. In the transactions concluded so far,
the new owners have undertaken to take over the existing labor force and to honor all
existing terms and conditions of service. Any labor reduction programs will thereafter be
implemented at their discretion and cost. The investors negotiating for the remaining



- 8 -
assets are reluctant to take over all the workers. Thus, the remaining employees, along
with commercial obligations and short term loans not assumed by the new owners and
residual assets, will remain with "ZCCM Investment Holding."
25.   The cost of the residual labor force redundancy program is now estimated at
US$65 million. The amount per person appears to be high because the compensation
being paid is a terminal benefit, which is tantamount to a lump-sum pension that is
payable to all departing employees, including retirees, and because a large proportion of
the workers being retrenched are long-time ZCCM employees. The costs of this
redundancy program go well beyond the financial capability of"ZCCM Investment
Holding" in the short- to medium-term. However, a successful labor reduction program
would help ensure the completion of ZCCM's privatization and enhance productivity in
the sector, while reducing the scope for potential distress and social up]heaval on the
Copperbelt during the transitional period. In an effort to minimize the costs of severance
and to encourage preference for continued employment in the privatized operations,
ZCCM will: (a) actively promote the skills and services which are found in the
Corporate Head Office, the Operations Center and the remaining core assets to the new
owners prior to transfer of assets; (b) market the self-contained functions, such as
Research and Development, Industrial Relations, and Central Winding and Materials
Testing; (c) sell company-owned houses to employees; and, (d) enforce the
reimbursement to ZCCM of severance benefits by those who are subsequently re-
employed in existing operations by the new owners.
C. IMPROVINGPUBLICSERVICES
26.   The effectiveness of public services in Zambia has declined significantly over the
past 10 years. The basic problems are similar to those faced in many other countries.
First, there are too many employees relative to current requirements; second, personnel
costs take too great a percentage of limited resources (almost 30 percent of domestic
revenues), thereby crowding out expenditure on essential supplies and capital spending.
Third, salary scales have been compressed, resulting in wages at senior levels too low to
attract and retain good quality staff. Finally, management and organizational procedures
are outmoded so that the existing manpower is not used efficiently, and the public service
has become generally unresponsive to the country's development needs.
27.  In 1993, the Government launched a Public Service Reform Program (PSRP)
with a view to improving the quality of public services. Some progress has been made in
restructuring ministries to relate their organization more closely to their functions, to hive
off non-core functions, and to identify surplus positions. Although new plans have been
approved for most ministries and departments and some staff appointed to the new
positions, implementation continues to be hampered by the high cost of involuntary
retrenchment of surplus civil servants.
28.   A revised PSRP was adopted in September 1997, which aimed at substantially
reducing non-military public service employment, decompressing public-sector salaries
while simplifying pay scales and consolidating allowances, introducing new personnel
policies and procedures, including actuarially sound pension arrangements, strengthening



- 9-
the system for controlling the public payroll, and developing improved performance
management systems. The program would institute a full census of civil servants to
identify "ghost workers", use a combination of voluntary and involuntary separation
packages for those tenured civil servants identified as surplus, and implement
strengthened procedures for personnel management and a new program of performance-
based management. Some of the savings from reducing the wage bill by cutting public
employment would be allocated over the ensuing three years to decompress salary levels
with larger increases at the higher and middle levels. Donor contributions are expected to
meet a substantial share of costs of retrenchment.
29.  Improved delivery of public services also involves reforms at the sectoral level in
delivery mechanisms. In the health sector, those reforms are supported by a Sector
Investment Program (SIP) involving multiple donors, and center around decentralization
of decision-making and responsibility for service delivery to levels of government closer
to those being served. For a number of years now, funding for health services has been
allocated as block grants to the district level. Similar systems are being developed in
basic education. These reforms are expected to increase efficiency and responsiveness to
beneficiary needs.
30.   Of particular importance in the social sectors, reforms are currently underway in
the areas of nutrition and public welfare. Over the past year, an extensive study of the
National Food and Nutrition Council (NFNC) was undertaken, and the Government has
developed an agenda for reform including redirecting the functions of NFNC to be more
of a catalyst than a service provider, and providing it with adequate resources. The
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) is intended to help the poorest of the poor
deal with short-term disasters, to pay for health and school fees, and to assist the
chronically poor, such as widows, orphans, the aged and the handicapped. In the past, it
has suffered from design weaknesses, limited administrative capacity and low budget
allocations. The Governrnent has recently revamped the scheme, devising new eligibility
criteria and developing new operational guidelines. The Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services (MCDSS) has developed a pilot scheme to test the
revamped PWAS and will launch the new scheme over four years. An eligibility criteria
matrix has been developed, and implementation guidelines have been developed and field
tested. Critical to the success of this revised program will be adequate funding. About
K. 2.8 billion has been budgeted in 1999 for welfare transfer payments. A National
Poverty Reduction Unit has also been established in MCDSS to coordinate the
implementation of the Govermment's Poverty Reduction Plan.
D. FOSTERING PRIVATE SECTOR GROWTH
31.   Zambia's trade and investment policies have undergone substantial reform since
the adoption of an outward-looking and market-oriented growth strategy in 1991. These
reforms have helped to improve the climate for private investment and to enhance the
attractiveness of export-oriented production. Decontrol of prices, elimination of
subsidies, privatization of public enterprises, and removal of restrictions on private-sector
activity have all contributed to improving the business environment. The availability of
foreign exchange at the market-determined exchange rate, the elimination of quantitative



- 10-
import restrictions, and rationalization of the tariff structure with consolidation of tariff
bands and reductions in nominal tariffs have been of particular importance in reducing
the anti-export bias of the trade regime. Meanwhile, until late-1997, tariff revenues were
maintained by limiting the availability of tariff exemptions to clearly identified groups or
products while extending tariff coverage to most government imports.
32.   Tariff reforms since 1996 have enhanced the attractiveness of export production.
Nominal tariffs were lowered, particularly for raw materials and capital goods, and the
negative protection faced by many domestic businesses using imported raw materials was
reduced or eliminated. The maximum tariff rate was reduced from over 100 percent in
1994 to 30 percent in 1997 (including the 5 percent Import Declaration Fee) while the
average import-weighted tariff rate fell from 20.6 percent in 1994 to 11.4 percent in
1996, and the standard deviation fell from 12.6 percent to 9.9 percent over the same
period. The process of lowering tariffs continued in 1998 with the elimination in July of
the Import Declaration Fee (IDF), which had been assessed since late-1995 at 5 percent
of the import value as a temporary measure to compensate for the revenue losses due to
the first round of tariff reductions. While these tariff reductions have clearly increased
the profitability of export production, as reflected in the rapid growth of non-metal
exports (27 percent per year in value terms between 1994 and 1997), it is difficult to be
more precise about the exact contribution of these changes to export production since the
changes are recent and precise data on cost structures and effective protection rates are
not available.2
33.   In order to sustain the response of exports and private investment, continued
macroeconomic stability, strengthening of the financial sector, and improvements in
physical infrastructure will be essential in the medium term. Complementary policy and
institutional reforms are also needed in two main areas. First, to ensure that exporters
have access to their imported inputs at world prices, the existing schemes--the duty
drawback (DDB) scheme, which refunds import duties to eligible exporters, and the
manufacturing-under-bond (MUB) scheme, which exempts designated exporters from
import duties--need to be improved. Despite past attempts to improve their functioning,
both schemes have continued to suffer from implementation problems, and neither
scheme has had a perceptible impact on the profitability of export production. The
problems with the DDB have been that the availability of funding for the provision of
duty refunds is inadequate and unreliable, while the procedures and documentation for
claiming refunds are time-consuming and cumbersome. The MUB had suffered from not
being focused on exporters because it was not distinguished clearly from the Bonded
Warehouse (BW) scheme, which is available to all importers.
34.   Second, the institutional basis for export and investment promotion needs to be
strengthened by streamlining the investment approval process, including that related to
land acquisition, and reducing the number of often-overlapping consultative private and
public sector institutions. At the same time, wide-ranging investment incentives in the
form of fiscal exemptions need to be avoided.
2   The fall in non-metal exports in 1998 is likely to be an aberration on account of the recession and the
accumulation of arrears to businesses throughout the country by ZCCM.



- 11 -
E. MEDIUM TERMPROSPECTSAND FINANCING PLAN
35.   Among the most challenging aspects of Zambia's economic reform program is to
establish a viable and self-reliant balance of payments that is compatible with Zambia
meeting its external obligations and achieving steady economic growth. This is
particularly difficult because of the weakening of copper prices with little expectation of
significant recovery in the medium term. At the same time, Zambia's external debt of
almost twice its GDP (nearly half of which is multilateral) implies that substantial debt
service payments will be required even with successful negotiations with creditors. Thus,
even with success in expanding non-metal exports and limiting the growth in the demand
for imports, even modest levels of economic growth will mean an increase in the current
account deficit during the coming decade. Zambia is a severely indebted low income
country and, therefore, eligible to benefit from the HIPC initiative. Once a new ESAF
arrangement is agreed with the IMF and the necessary technical work is completed
during 1999, Zambia's case could be reviewed by the Bank and Fund Boards, provided
overall program performance continues to be satisfactory.
36.   With the suspension of bilateral balance of payments assistance in June 1996, a
larger share of Zambia's financing needs in 1996 and 1997 was met from foreign direct
investment and private capital flows, including privatization proceeds. Balance of
payments support in 1997 was about $120 million, mostly in the form of IDA Credits.
External financing requirements for 1998 were discussed at the Consultative Group
Meeting in May 1998. Although about US$235 million was pledged as program support,
it did not materialize due to delays in completing ZCCM privatization. In 1999, the
external financing requirement (excluding foreign-financed capital expenditure) is
estimated at about US$640 million. Of this amount, about US$190 million is expected to
come from multilateral sources (including IDA), about US$360 million is expected to
take the form of private capital inflows and new Paris Club debt relief, with the
remainder coming from bilateral donors. It is expected that the next Consultative Group
Meeting will be scheduled for the first half of 1999, following IMF approval of a new
three-year ESAF.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
37.   The proposed Credit would be the seventh adjustment operation for Zambia in the
past eight years. Zambia's economic reform program is well advanced, and the emphasis
is now on consolidating past reforms and improving their implementation. The central
theme of the proposed operation is on improving the performance of the public sector in
delivering key social services and in supporting private sector activity. To this end, it
explicitly supports important actions in four critical areas of Zambia's adjustment
program described above-ZCCM privatization, public service reform, export and
investment promotion, and investment in social sectors. These areas are consistent with
the priorities of the Bank program in Zambia as described in the most recent Country
Assistance Strategy reviewed by the Bank Board in July 1996. Many of the actions to be
supported under the proposed operation will be complemented by specific activities being
implemented under ongoing or new investment operations. Technical assistance and



- 12 -
other activities relating to the privatization of ZCCM have received ongoing support from
the Mining TA and ERIPTA Credits. Public service reforms already being supported by
the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project will be built upon in a proposed
follow-up operation to build public sector capacity. To support the private sector, the
Enterprise Development Credit provides credit and matching grants for project
development, while the ongoing Agriculture Sector Investment Project provides a Rural
Investment Fund. Complementary infrastructure is being funded under multi-donor roads
and power programs. Improved delivery of social services is being supported under the
Health SIP and the Social Recovery Project and will be supported by a Basic Education
SIP under preparation.
A. SUPPORTING ZCCM PRI VA TIZA TION
38.   The assistance under the Credit aims to facilitate the completion of the
privatization of ZCCM and improve the productivity of the copper industry by reducing
the labor component of overheads and centralized technical services, and by mitigating
the social cost of adjustment. The ZCCM redundancy program will be completed by
about June 1999. Government funds for this purpose will be lent to ZCCM on
commercial terms. The estimated cost of the program is US$65 million, net of the
obligations assumed by the new owners in respect of divisional personnel. Of the total
cost, US$58 million would be for payments to departing workers and US$7 million for
retraining and outplacement assistance programs, comprising financial counseling, job
search seminars, and skills bridging programs. The Government and ZCCM will agree to
a redundancy plan acceptable to IDA based on a draft plan that was agreed at
negotiations, which includes mechanisms for identifying those who would receive
payments and the terms of those payments. A loan agreement will be signed between the
Government and ZCCM for onlending the proceeds of the Credit to cover the costs of the
redundancy program. An audit without qualification by an independent auditor that
certifies that ZCCM has implemented the redundancy plan as agreed with IDA would be
a condition for release of the Second Tranche.
39.   As ZCCM sells more of its mining/core and non-core assets, it will be left with a
portfolio of assets that consists mainly of investments in mining companies for which the
organizational structure of a mining concern, such as ZCCM's current organization, is not
suitable. The residual ZCCM will be a company that has different objectives and
functions, and will have significantly different organizational and staffing requirements.
Specifically, it will have to emphasize the monitoring of investments and follow-up on
the commitments of the buyers of its assets under the development and other agreements.
It will also need far fewer staff (about 30) whose qualifications are by and large different
from those employed by ZCCM, the mining company. The change in the objectives,
functions, and organizational structure will require ZCCM to revise its Articles of
Association, shareholder agreements, administrative rules, and terms and conditions of
service. During Negotiations, IDA agreed with Government and ZCCM: (a) on a
"ZCCM Reorganization Plan,"; and (b) that ZCCM will seek the approval of the agreed
"ZCCM Reorganization Plan" by the ZCCM Board of Directors. A certified copy of the
Board's approval resolution will be provided to IDA, and satisfactory progress in



- 13 -
implementing this Plan is a condition for release of the Second Tranche. The transfer to
the new owners of ownership and control of the remaining core ZCCM assets for which
MOUs and/or sales agreements have been reached and decisions concerning the future
status of any major ZCCM assets that are unsold will also be conditions for release of the
Second Tranche.
B. PUBLIC SER vICE REFORM
40.   To achieve sustainable improvements in the performance of the public service, the
government recognizes that it must address the key issues of overstaffing, low and
compressed pay scales, and inadequate management controls. In September 1997,
therefore, it adopted a revised PSRP to address these problems decisively and
comprehensively by aiming to: reduce nonmilitary public employment substantially by
end-1999; decompress public sector salaries to bring pay levels and structures more in
line with those in the private sector while simplifying pay scales and consolidating
allowances; introduce new personnel policies, procedures, and practices, including
actuarially sound pension arrangements, as the basis for a new employment contract
between the government and the public service; strengthen the systems for controlling the
public payroll; and, develop improved performance management systems.
41.   Since the adoption of the revised PSRP, some progress has been made towards
these goals. A detailed action and implementation plan for the program was prepared and
approved by the Cabinet in April 1998. A full-time Director General was appointed in
early-1998 to oversee the implementation of the program, in consultation with a Steering
Committee of senior officials from various ministries. To ensure enforcement of tighter
establishment controls, a hiring freeze was instituted in August 1997. Initial reductions
in the public payroll have been made in 1998 with the retrenchment of over 15,500
classified employees (who are not eligible for the separation packages under the Pensions
Act), of whom about 12,300 have been paid their terminal benefits, averaging about K.
4.5 million each. The terminal benefits for the remaining 3200 will be paid by early-
1999. Staffing reviews have been initiated for the ministries that account for the bulk of
civil service employment.
42.   However, the original phasing of the program, as spelt out in the action plan that
was finalized in April 1998 has been modified. These changes in the implementation and
phasing of actions on PSRP reflect the deterioration in the economic situation during
1998 as well as delays in moving ahead in some areas due, in part, to unclear delineation
of responsibilities and inadequate coordination among the key agencies responsible for
action. Specifically, the pace of retrenchment of pensionable civil servants will now be
considerably slower than was originally envisioned, while the implementation of
improved management controls with regard to the payroll, establishment controls,
performance management, and the ministerial staffing reviews and restructurings will be
completed later than was anticipated in the action plan. The pace of retrenching
pensionable civil servants has been slowed because of a poor response to the voluntary
severance package announced in February 1998, in part, due to the worsening economic
situation.



- 14 -
43.   To agree on the details of this rephasing of actions on PSRP, management
arrangements for the program will be finalized and implemented in early-l 999.
Following this, a revised action and implementation plan for PSRP will be prepared, and
will include clearly-assigned responsibilities for time-bound actions and targets in areas
such as retrenchments, pay and pension policies, establishment and payroll controls,
ministerial restructuring, performance monitoring, and the mitigation of the social impact
of retrenchments. It is expected that this action plan will be finalized and approved by
Cabinet so that its implementation begins by June 1999. An important issue to be
addressed in revising the action plan is the evaluation of various options for retrenching
pensionable civil servants in an affordable manner. As the condition for release of the
floating Tranche, the Government will agree with IDA on this action and implementation
plan for PSRP and begin its implementation.
44.   Since successful public service reform is a long-tern process, the action plan for
PSRP will necessarily stretch beyond the implementation period of this operation.
Continued support from the Bank and other donors to the implementation of the action
plan will likely be provided under the framework of an Adaptable Program Credit aimed
at building public sector capacity, which is currently under preparation. The IDA Credit
would finance retrenchments as needed, depending on support from other donors, as well
as the necessary technical assistance to implement the reforms in such areas as public
service pay and employment, and performance management frameworks.
C. INVESTMENTAND EXPORTPROMOTION
45.   The reforms supported under this Credit relating to export promotion would build
on the trade and tax measures implemented since 1991, and would aim at accelerating the
supply response by: (i) ensuring that exporters have access to their imported inputs at
world prices by improving the workings of the DDB and MUB schemes, thereby
compensating for the residual anti-export bias of the tariff regime; (ii) reducing tariffs
further; and (iii) improving the institutional basis for investment and export promotion.
46.   Making the DDB and MUB schemes work better remains important because,
despite the recent reduction in tariffs, the average rate on intermediate inputs is still over
9 percent, while less than a tenth of the value of intermediate goods imports now receive
exemptions, compared to 43 percent of the value of capital goods imports. Hence, tariffs
on intermediate inputs continue to have an appreciable impact on production costs for
many promising export products. To address the problems with the working of the DDB
and MUB schemes, changes aim at providing exporters with access to duty-free inputs
quickly and transparently while ensuring that they can be administered and controlled
easily by the Zambia Revenue Authority. Therefore, the funding mechanism for the
DDB has been revamped to ensure adequate and timely financing for refunds, and the
necessary documentation and procedures will be simplified. In particular, the duty refund
mechanism, including procedures for verifying exports, builds on that already in place for
VAT refunds. The MUB has been redefined so that it focuses directly on exporters and
the provision of duty-free imports to them has been linked to the revamped DDB scheme.



- 15-
47.   As a condition of Board Presentation, several changes in the design and
functioning of the DDB and MUB schemes were announced and their implementation
begun in April 1998. These changes included: (a) for the DDB, introducing procedures
for computing the duty drawback based on coefficients that link duty paid to export
values; adopting the standard export documentation currently used for VAT refunds;
improving the mechanism for funding duty drawbacks; and, drawing up a code of
conduct for applying procedures, which includes tracking the elapsed time for payment of
duty refunds; and (b) for the MUB, streamlining procedures and documentation along the
lines for the DDB. As a condition of Second Tranche release, it would be verified that
both schemes are being implemented satisfactorily, in terms of agreed criteria including
the timeliness of processing of duty refunds and the implementation of simplified
processing and documentation for the schemes.
48.  In facilitating and supporting private investment, the process of investment
approvals needs to be clarified and streamlined. With the reduction of fiscal incentives as
a tool of investment promotion, the role of the Investment Center is now that of a
facilitator, especially for foreign investors. However, the investment approval process
still involves the need to deal with multiple agencies, and can be both confusing and
time-consuming. Streamlining the investment approval process by clarifying the role and
authority of the Investment Center is, therefore, a priority. Some measures for
streamlining the investment approval process have been implemented, including
broadening the composition of the Committee that considers Investment Certificate
applications and establishment of an independent consultancy company, which has
private-sector representation on its Board, to provide services to potential investors.
Additional actions are being considered by the Government to streamline the investment
promotion process. These proposals would be included in an action plan to be
implemented beyond the period of this Credit; and on which the Government will agree
with IDA as a condition of Second Tranche release.
D. SOCIAL SERVICES
49.   Although some progress has been made in recent years, the delivery of social
services in Zambia continues to be constrained by inadequate policies, shrinking financial
resources and poor institutional mechanisms. Under this Credit, budget allocations to the
social sectors would be agreed and monitored. In addition, two administrative reforms
would be included. Improving nutritional status is a cross-sectoral issue that could bring
significant benefits to a large share of the Zambia population at a relatively small cost.
Under the previous ESAC II operation, a study of the Government's efforts to address
nutritional problems and especially the role of the National Food and Nutrition
Commission was carried out and some policy recommendations adopted. Applying the
results of that study and developing in more detail the policies and institutional
framework to deal effectively with nutrition issues will be a focus of the government's
efforts. Specifically, the Letter of Development Policy reflects the Government's
commitment to begin implementation of these policies during the period covered by this
Credit. The second area is to improve the effectiveness of the safety net so as to assist
the poor by mitigating the transition costs of adjustment. The Public Welfare Assistance



- 16-
Scheme (PWAS) is the Government's main vehicle for meeting the needs of the poorest,
but its effectiveness has been limited in the past. PWAS has been reformed and
strengthened, and implementation of these reforms and the provision of adequate
sufficient funding for the revamped program will be supported by this Credit.
Specifically, the Letter of Development Policy includes the Government's commitment
to initiate implementation of the revamped PWAS during the PSREP period.
50.   Under agreements reached in previous adjustment operations, the share of the
discretionary budget going to the social sectors has increased from 28 percent in 1993 to
33.7 percent in 1995 and 34.6 percent in 1996. In 1997 and 1998, over 36 percent was
allocated to these budget categories although agreement on this figure was not a
condition under an IDA Credit. Under this Credit, the Government will again maintain a
minimum percentage (about 36 percent) of the total discretionary budget (i.e. excluding
debt service, donor funded development expenditures, and other statutorily required
expenditures) for allocations to and expenditures in the agreed social sector categories in
the 1999 Budget.
51.  In previous operations, there has also been agreement on a subset of items that
would be specifically protected from budget cuts. These items, which totaled 6 percent
of the budget in ESAC II, were felt to be the highest priority in achieving sector goals and
the most sensitive to expenditure shortfalls. Under this Credit, there is an agreement,
reflected in the Letter of Development Policy on protecting the budgeted amounts for key
non-personnel spending components in health, education, and public welfare, including
the level of transfers to the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme. However, for simplicity
of monitoring, only a few key categories would be monitored. The budget shares and the
mechanisms for monitoring actual expenditures have been agreed as a condition of Board
Presentation. Satisfactory implementation of the agreement on social sector spending as
reflected in actual disbursements at the time of program review in 1999 would be a
condition of Second Tranche release.
E. POVERTYIMPACT
52.   The proposed Credit will improve the economic prospects of the poor in Zambia
by supporting the Government's efforts to stay the course on policy reforms, thus
increasing the prospects for sustainable economic growth and increased investment in
Zambia's human resources. Economic growth should expand real income and
employment opportunities. Further improvements in the trade regime should expand
opportunities for non-mining exports, which analysis has shown to be more labor-
intensive than the import substitution industrialization efforts of the 1970s. Of particular
importance to the poor will be the efforts to maintain social spending. The long-term
efforts to eradicate poverty can only be successful if the Government is able to increase
the investment in Zambia's human resources for all population groups. This should also
be strengthened by specific commitments supported under this Credit to improve budget
allocations to the social services and to strengthen the administrative arrangements in the
areas of nutrition and public welfare. Of possible concern in terms of its short-term
impact on incomes will be the thousands of redundancies contemplated in both the public
service and ZCCM. Severance benefits averaging several years of pay are to be paid to



- 17-
these employees, but it will also be necessary to offer services and training to ease the
transition to the private sector, and careful follow-up monitoring will be needed to
identify and remedy any significant problems that these redundancies might create.
F. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
53.   Addressing the issues related to the environment has been a vital part of Zambia's
economic reform program. The Government was one of the first to complete a National
Environmental Action Plan, and an IDA-supported Environmental Support Program is
currently being implemented to strengthen the institutions that carry out Zambia's
environmental program and to increase the cooperation between the public and private
sectors in this critical area. In addition, the Government has recently issued revised
environmental regulations for the mining sector, and a new environmental department in
the Ministry of Mines has been established. These should ensure that future mining
investment take place with due regard to environmental considerations. The proposed
Credit does not have an environmental focus, but it should have an overall positive effect
by strengthening the capacity of the public sector to enforce environmental legislation.
G. SPECIFICAGREEMENTS
54.   The specific conditions for release of the Second Tranche and the floating
Tranche are summarized below. The maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
environment will be necessary to release both tranches.
55.   The proposed specific conditions for Second Tranche Release are:
(a)   Satisfactory audit of ZCCM's implementation of agreed redundancy plan;
(b)   Satisfactory progress in implementing the ZCCM reorganization plan;
(c)   Transfer of ownership and control of remaining core ZCCM assets for
which memoranda of understanding and/or sales agreements have been
reached;
(d)   Satisfactory operation of revamped DDB and MUB schemes;
(e)   Agreement with IDA on an action plan to streamline investment
promotion; and,
(f)   Actual spending in the first quarter of 1999 consistent with agreed social
spending targets.
56.   The proposed specific condition for release of the floating tranche is:
(a)   Agreement with IDA on a revised action and implementation plan for
PSRP, which is approved by Cabinet, and its initial implementation in
terms of arrangements for managing the program, strengthening



- 18-
management controls, and restructuring ministries (including the
necessary retrenchments).
H. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS
57.   The proposed Credit of US$170 million will assist Zarnbia in meeting its external
financing requirements in 1999 and will facilitate the retrenchment of redundant
employees of ZCCM to enable its privatization and conversion to efficient operation.
The Credit will be disbursed through the Bank of Zambia with US$65 million available at
effectiveness, US$40 million tied to a floating Tranche with a specific condition relating
only to the public service reform program, and the remaining US$65 million tied to the
second tranche with specific conditions in the three other areas, namely, ZCCM
privatization, export and investment promotion, and social services. Simplified
disbursement procedures under adjustment credits will apply. The Borrower will open an
account in the Central Bank. Upon IDA notification of tranche release for each tranche,
proceeds of the Credit will be deposited by IDA in this account at the request of the
Borrower. If after deposits in this account, the proceeds of the Credit are used for
ineligible purposes (to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or
services in the standard negative list), IDA will require the borrower to either (a) return
that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly
to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit.
Although routine audit of the account will not be required, IDA reserves the right to
require it. As has been the case with previous adjustment operations, the Ministry of
Finance will be responsible for the overall implementation and monitoring of reforms
supported by the PSREP Credit. This will involve continuing the monitoring and
implementation unit already established, and revising its terms of reference accordingly.
I. IMPLEMENTA TIONASSISTANCE
58.   Administrative capacity remains a constraint on the Government's ability to
achieve the objectives of its economic recovery program. The Bank has been assisting
the Government's efforts to upgrade this capacity while recognizing that the direction of
this program must remain firmly in Zambian hands. Several IDA-assisted projects are
directed primarily at capacity building, including the Financial and Legal Management
Upgrading Project (which includes administrative strengthening of public procurement),
the Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance Project, the recently-
completed Transport Engineering Project and the Economic Recovery and Investment
Promotion Technical Assistance Project. All investment projects have major components
addressing capacity issues, particularly the sector investment operations in health,
agriculture and roads (and under preparation in basic education). Use has also been made
of the Institutional Development Fund in building capacity in advance of project
investments. Considerable technical assistance is being provided in the public sector
management area by other donors and by the UNDP, and a possible follow-up capacity
building operation by the Bank is under consideration.



- 19 -
J. COFINANCING
59.   At this stage, the African Development Bank has expressed an interest in parallel
cofinancing. Indications are that bilateral donors will make their own arrangements for
providing balance of payments support.
K. PROGRAMBENEFITSAND RISKS
60.   The primary benefit of this Credit will be the advancement of policy reforms in
the critical areas of ZCCM privatization, public service reform, export and investment
promotion, and social service delivery. These reforms should help sustain
macroeconomic stability, accelerate economic growth and increase employment while
improving the delivery of social services. The measures related to ZCCM privatization
and investment promotion should enhance the prospects for medium-term growth while
the protection of social sector expenditures should increase Zambia's prospects for
sustainable growth in the longer term.
61.   There are two broad categories of risk. The first is that the Government's reform
program as a whole could falter. This could result from major policy reversals and/or the
impact of major external shocks, including a continuing shortfall in external donor
support because of either economic or governance-related concerns. The commitment of
this Government to economic reform has remained steadfast in the past seven years.
Many of the measures supported under this Credit and previous adjustment operations
have strengthened the capacity of the Zambian economy to withstand external shocks,
including the collapse in copper prices during the past year. Dialogue with donors on
governance-related issues, pledged by the Government at the last Consultative Group
Meeting, continues to be needed and is of high priority. The second source of risk for
this Credit concerns the possibility that the specific reforms supported under it are not
undertaken. While it is possible that the sale of the remaining core ZCCM assets could
be delayed beyond 1999, this risk is mitigated by the detailed agreements that have been
reached between the Government, ZCCM and the prospective buyers for the purchase of
the bulk of these assets. On public service reform, there is a risk that the agenda and
timetable for reforms could pose political problems. To mitigate this risk, the
Government will continue consultations with all major stakeholders during the
formulation of its action plan and implementation of the program, and rely on continued
support from the Bank and other external partners.
IV. BANK OPERA4TIONS
62.   The Bank's 1994 Poverty Assessment prepared with significant donor and
Government involvement, provides a focus for Zambia's development objectives and
frames the priorities of the Bank's assistance strategy for Zambia. The Bank is pursuing
a three-pronged strategy to assist the Government in implementing an action plan for
reducing poverty in Zambia: creating a stable macroeconomic enviromnent favorable to
growth; promoting private sector development and greater public sector efficiency; and,
targeting assistance to poor and vulnerable groups. Under the first prong of this strategy,



- 20 -
Zambia has achieved some notable successes, and on balance, seems to have emerged
from the most difficult first stages of its economic transition. Yet Zambia's high debt
burden and limited prospects for copper exports in the short term mean that continued
reform and balance of payments support will be needed for the next decade if economic
growth is to be achieved. Under the second prong, past reforms have resulted in the
economy being now among the most open and private-sector oriented in Africa. IDA is
supporting activities through specific investment projects and sector investment
operations (SIPs) to improve the efficiency of service delivery as well as helping to
increase the private sector's role in the economy through continued support for the
privatization program and through new initiatives aimed at providing enterprises with the
information, technology, and term finance to adapt to the new business environment. In
addition, IDA is assisting the Government to arrest environmental deterioration and to
put in place an effective environmental management system in Zambia.
63.   To help target assistance to poor and vulnerable groups (the third prong of the
strategy), stabilization and budget reform measures supported by IDA adjustment lending
include protection of core social expenditures. Similarly, the Bank's investment lending
emphasizes supporting community-based development initiatives, integrating growth and
poverty reducing activities better within sectors, improving the delivery of services to the
poor, and linking poverty reducing activities across sectors.
64.   The Bank's program in Zambia includes adjustment lending, investment lending,
economic and sector work, and aid coordination. Bank adjustment operations each year
have been aimed at strengthening macroeconomic stabilization and market liberalization,
supporting privatization and parastatal reform, reducing structural constraints on the
delivery of social services, strengthening the social safety net, and promoting public
sector reform. In addition, IDA is supporting thirteen investment operations in
agriculture, health, roads, power, urban water and sanitation, environmental protection,
private sector development and social recovery, and in technical assistance in mining, the
petroleum sector, privatization and financial and legal reforn. The Bank is now shifting
its investment lending towards SIPs, whose aim is to increase public efficiency by
avoiding the overlap, inconsistency, and administrative overload associated with a large
number of separate donor-funded projects within each sector. As umbrella operations in
which the Government takes the lead, SIPs are expected to promote dynamic growth both
broadly, through improving the efficiency of service delivery within the sector, and in a
targeted way, by financing pilot projects with a more immediate impact on the poor.
They also provide long-terrn capacity building within the sector. SIPs have been
approved in health (1994), agriculture (1995), roads and power (1998). Future IDA
investment operations will consist predominantly of similar operations in basic education
and vocational education, a public sector capacity building project and a small number of
narrowly targeted operations to achieve needed short-term gains. Preparation of a new
CAS, involving a series of consultations with the Government and other stakeholders, is
underway and will be presented to the Executive Directors early in FY00.
65.   The Bank's economic and sector work will include broader studies to provide
some of the analytical underpinning for the economic reforms. Recent examples of such
work are the Policy Framework Papers (PFPs), the Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs),



- 21 -
the Growth Prospects paper, and a Fiscal Management Review. In addition, the Poverty
Assessment has provided additional insights into the extent and determinants of poverty
in Zambia, explored the impact of the reform program on the poor, and recommended
further reformns and targeted investment programs. As Zambia is one of the most heavily
indebted of the low income countries, considerable attention will continue to be paid to
analyzing the country's prospects for further debt relief, and Zambia is one of the
countries highlighted in the joint Bank-Fund study on Debt Sustainability for Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries. Further work on Zambia's eligibility for HIPC will take place
in 1999. Aid coordination will continue to figure prominently in the Bank's strategy.
This includes: supporting the aid coordination that takes place in Lusaka under the
leadership of the Government; chairing the Consultative Group; providing country
consultations on Zambia in Special Program of Assistance for Africa (SPA) meetings;
and, maintaining frequent informal contacts with Zambia's principal bilateral partners.
V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF
66.   The programs of the Bank and Fund in Zambia have been closely coordinated
since assistance to Zambia resumed in 1991. Balance of payments needs are jointly
agreed among the Bank, the Fund, and the Government as part of the PFP and
Consultative Group processes. Bank proposals on trade, taxation, spending allocations,
privatization, public service reform and related structural policy benchmarks are
coordinated with the Fund's fiscal targets, while the Fund's macroeconomic benchmarks
are developed in close consultation with the Bank. The Fourth Policy Framework Paper
was approved by the Bank and Fund Boards in December 1995, and a new PFP for 1999-
2001 is being finalized. Zambia successfully completed its Rights Accumulation
Program in December 1995, and the Fund Board approved a three year SAF/ESAF
program, the mid-term review of which was concluded in February 1997. An IMF team
has reached understandings with the Government on a policy program for 1999,
including the macroeconomic framework, to be supported by a three-year ESAF
arrangement. These understandings are reflected in the draft PFP.



- 22 -
VI. RECOMMENDATION
67.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by: Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
December 30, 1998
Attachments



-23 -
ANNEXES
A. SOCIAL INDICATORS OF DEVELOPMENT
B. KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
C. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
D. STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
E. EVOLUTION OF POLICY REFORM AGREEMENTS
F. ZAMBIA AT A GLANCE
G. MATRIX OF POLICY AGREEMENTS
H. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY



- 24 -                                                      Annex A
Page I of I
Zambia Social Indicators
Latest single year              Same reglonflncome group
Sub-
Saharan          Low-
1970-75      1980-85       1990-96             Aftica       income
POPULATION
Total poptiation, mid-year (milions)             4.8          6.7           9.2              596.4        3,236.2
Growth rate (% annual average)                 2.9          3.1           2.8                2.7            1.8
Urban population (% of population)              34.8          40.9         43.3               31.7           29.1
Total fertility rate (births per woman)          6.9           6.7          5.8                5.6            3.2
POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                                                   86.0
Urban headcount index
Rural headcount index
INCOME
GNP per capita (US$)                            600           360           360               490            490
Consumer price index (1987=100)                                44        31,534               266            275
Food price index (1987=100)                                    46        40,020
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumption)
Lowest quintile                                                             3.9
Highest quinble                                                            50.4
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
Heafth (% of GDP)                                                         2.4                               1.5
Education (% of GNP)                                        4.7           2.6                5.3           3.6
Social security and welfare (% of GDP)         0.2          0.5           0.7
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age gmup)
Total                                                        77            77
Male                                                       81            78
Female                                                     73            76
Access to safe water
(% of populaion)
Total                                          42            48            43                45             76
Urban                                        86            70           64                 63             80
Rural                                        16            32            27                34             72
Immunizaton rate
(% under 12 months)
Measles                                                      49            78                56             80
DPT                                                          58            76                55             81
Child malnutrition (% under 5 years)              24           27            29
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                          47            46            44                 52            63
Male                                         46            45            44                51             62
Female                                       49            48            45                54             64
Mortality
lnfhnt(perthousandlivebiths)                  100           103           112                91             68
UnderS(perthousandlivebirths)                 181           149           202               147             94
Adult (15-69)
Male (per 1,W00 population)                 546           482          534                448            231
Femal (per 1,000 population)                460           413          494                376            206
Maternal (per 1 00,000 live births)                                       230
World Development Indicators 1998 CD-ROM, World Bank



- 25 -                                                Annex B
Page 1 of3
Zambia - Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001        2002
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture8                            13.5    16.2    15.4    16.3    15.7      15.8    15.9    15.9    15.9
Industry8                              34.7    31.6    30.4    30.4    29.9      31.0    31.3    31.6    31.7
Services'                              38.9    39.7    41.4    41.0    43.7    41.8    41.3    40.8    40.7
Total Consumption                        90.7    91.9    91.3    90.7    93.3      93.4    93.1      91.9    91.2
Gross domestic fixed                     13.3    13.6    14.5    13.1    15.2      15.5    16.0    16.3    16.5
investment
Government investment                   7.0     7.0      5.9     5.2     6.4      6.8      7.4      7.4      7.4
Private investment                      6.5     6.9      9.0     9.3     9.8      9.7      9.6      9.9    10.1
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFb)V                          35.1    37.6    33.8    31.7    28.5      30.4    31.9    32.8    33.2
imports (GNFS)                           39.3    43.4    39.9    37.0    38.1      40.3    42.0    42.0    42.0
Gross domestic savings                    9.3     8.1     8.7      9.3     6.7      6.6      6.9     8.1      8.8
Gross national savings'                   1.7    0.6      2.0      3.3     0.4     -0.4     0.1       1.5     2.2
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                  3347    3498    3298    3875    3356       3504    3757    4051    4364
(US$ million at current
prices)
Grossnationalproductper                 340.0   330.0   350.0   380.0   320.0   330.0   330.0   350.0   370.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1994
prices)
Gross domestic product at             -3.4%   -2.3%    6.5%    3.4%   -2.0%      3.0%    4.5%     5.0%     5.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                 -0.6%    0.4%    2.6%    5.4%   -5.2%     2.3%     4.5%     5.3%     5.4%
Real annual per capita
growth rtes (%, calculated
from 1994 prices)
Gross domestic product at             -6.1%   -4.9%    3.8%    0.9%   -4.3%     0.7%     2.3%     2.9%     2.9%
market prices
Total consumption                     -6.9%   -1.5%   -0.6%   -0.1%   -5.3%      0.0%    1.9%     1.6%     2.5%
Private consumption                   -6.0%   -1.0%    1.6%    0.1%   -5.3%      1.1%    0.4%     1.5%     2.7%
(Continued)



- 26 -                                                Annex B
Page 2 of 3
Zambia - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports(GNFSb                         1174.7  1316.0  1113.0  1230.2   955.8   1065.0  1199.1  1330.2  1450.8
Merchandise FOB                     1067.3  1186.0   993.0  1119.1   845.8   951.6  1074.8  1192.3  1285.3
Imports(GNFS)b                       1317.0  1518.0  1316.0  1432.4  1277.5   1413.1  1579.5  1700.1  1831.0
MerchandiseFOB                      1003.0  1194.0  1055.0  1056.0  1004.8   1102.6  1251.2  1357.6  1471.7
Resource balance                      -142.3  -202.0  -203.0  -202.2  -321.6  -348.1   -380.4  -369.9  -380.1
Net current trnsfers                   -19.0   -20.0   -17.0   -16.0   -16.8    -17.6   -18.5   -19.4   -20A
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                -59.7  -146.2  -122.0  -239.5  -308.9   -368.7  -417.0   -395.6   418.4
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct              40.0    97.0   117.0   125.4   163.5    170.0   200.0   220.0   242.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
Official                               87.1   116.6    86.0    87.0    74.1    176.7   -12.3    60.2    76.2
Private
Other capital (net, including             ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                   -155.0    -2.0   -52.0   -25.0   185.3   -1112    -84.6  -121.5  -190.4
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                 -4.2%   -5.8%   -6.2%   -5.2%   -9.6%    -9.9%   -10.1%    -9.1%    -8.7%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growh rates
(1994 prices)
Merchandise exports                    1.8%   4.9%   -0.1%   12.2%  -10.3%    11.1%       9.4%     7.8%     4.6%
(FOB)
Primary                              -2.7%  -10.4%   4.2%    7.2%         ..       ..
Manufactures                        -98.9%   22.6%   18.3%    4.4%   4.0%    10.0%    15.0%    14.0%    14.0%
Merchandise imports                    1.9%   10.1%   -7.6%    5.5%  -10.0%      8.0%    10.3%     5.8%     5.8%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as /o of GDP at current
market prices)
Currentrevenues                         20.1    19.9    20.6    19.8    18.1      18.9    19.3    19.4    19.4
Current expenditures                    27.9    24.2    18.5    18.4    18.2      16.2    18.0    17.8    18.6
(Continued)



- 27 -                                                Annex B
Page 3 of 3
Zambia - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Current account surplus (+j             -7.8    4.4      2.1      1.4   -0.1       2.7      1.3      1.6     0.8
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                      4.0     5.1     8.7      7.5     9.0     10.7    10.0    10.2    10.1
Foreign financing                        9.4     9.3     8.4      8.9     9.7     12.1      6.4      8.4     8.0
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                  15.5    18.0    18.3    17.4    17.5      17.9    18.2    18.2    18.2
prices)
Growth of M2(%)                         74.8    55.3    34.4    24.0    21.5      25.8    19.2    13.4    13.4
Price indices( 1994 =100)
Merchandiseexportprice                 114.1   133.3   111.7   112.1    94.5      95.6    98.8   101.7   104.8
index
Merchandiseimportprice                 124.5   134.7   128.8   122.2   129.2    131.3   135.0   138.5   141.9
index
Merchandise terms of trade              91.6    98.9    86.7    91.7    73.1      72.9    73.2    73.4    73.9
index
Real exchange rate                     169.2   162.0   169.5   203.0   220.7        ..
(US$/LCU);
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                  53.6%   34.2%   46.3%   24.8%   27.8%    20.8%    12.1%      7.7%     7.6%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                          56.6%   36.9%   24.3%   25.9%   23.2%    20.0%    12.0%      8.0%     8.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Data refer to central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



-28 -                                        Annex C
Page 1 of I
Extemal Financing Requirements
Millions of US$
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Exports of Goods and NFS                                  1113  1230   956  1065  1199
Imports of Goods and NFS                                  1316  1432  1277  1413  1579
Other Current Account excl. interest payments              -25   -40   -20   -52   -51
Current Account Balance excl.Grants and Interest Payments  -228  -243  -341  -400  -432
Debt Service Before New Rescheduling                       453   413   338   457   485
Gross Financing Requirements                               681   656   680   857   917
Changes in Net Reserves"                                   -52   -25   185  -111    -85
Debt Relief and Other 2                                    107   130   -82       0      0
Financing Requirements after Debt Relief                   626   551   577   968  1001
Identified Financing                                       627   550   599   779   681
Official Grants                                        304   198   222   223   217
Official Loan Disbursements '                          206   227   191   386   264
Direct investment                                      117   125   164   170   200
Financing Gap                                               -1      0     0    189   320
Memo item:
IMF Purchase                                               0    14       0    13    27
IMF Re-purchases                                           0      0      0      0     0
1/ Includes IMF purchases and re-purchases.
2/ Includes payments of arrears, debt relief, short term, portfolio investment and errors and omissions.
3/ Excludes use of IMF resources.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Zambia
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                             disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                            Purpose
IBRD       rDA       Cancel.      Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj         Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 56
Active Projects
ZM-PE-3251       1992   GOVERNMENT                        PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS                      0.00       10.00        0.00           .94          .59        0.00       S          S
ZM-PE-3221       1993   GOVT                              MKTG. & PROCESS.                          0.00       33.00        0.00         13.05       11.00         0.00       S          S
ZM-PE-3258       1994   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    FINANCIAL & LEGAL MA                      0.00       18.00        0.00          5.92        4.35         4.72       S          S
ZM-PE-3252       1994   GOVT                              PETROLEUM REHAB                           0.00       30.00        0.00         25.38       19.94         2.04      S           U
ZM-PE-3241       1995   GOZ                               URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                      0.00       33.00        0.00         16.29          .16       -2.13       S          S
ZM-PE-3239       1995   GOVT                              HEALTH SECTOR                             0.00       56.00        0.00         34.99       28.37         0.00      S           S
ZM-PE-3210       1995   GOVT                              SOCIAL RECOVERY II                        0.00       30.00        0.00          5.90        4.49         0.00       S          S
ZM-PE-3218       1995   GOVT.                             AGRICULTURE SECTOR 1                      0.00       60.00        0.00         36.32       23.61         0.00       S          U
ZM-PE-40642      1996                                     ERIPTA                                    0.00       23.00        0.00          8.28        4.47         0.00       5          S
ZM-PE-44324     1997   REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA                 ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                      0.00       45.00        0.00         41.87        9.78         0.00       S          s
ZM-PE-3253       1997   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    ENVIRONMENT                               0.00       12.80        0.00         12.27        2.06         0.00       S          S
ZM-PE-35076      1998                                     POWER REHAB                               0.00       75.00        0.00         76.38        8.90         0.00       S           S
ZM-PE-3236       1998   GOVT                              NATIONAL ROAD                             0.00       70.00        0.00         68.81        2.81         0.00       S           S
Total                                                                                               0.00      495.80         0.00       346.40      120.53         4.63
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  140.50            2,017.22            2,157.72
of which has been repaid:                    0.00              564.68              564.68
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  495.80            1,403.08             1,898.88
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                28.58               28.58
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               28.58                28.58
Total Undisbursed                :               346.40                 1.49              347.89
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0 >(
O x



-30 -                                            Annex D
Page 2 of 2
Zambia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1972/73               Bata Shoe ZA            0.00     .22    0.00    0.00    0.00     .22    0.00    0.00
1980/84               Kafue Textile           2.78    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983/91               ZHP                     2.73    0.00    0.00   13.59    2.73    0.00    0.00   13.59
1994                  AEF Big Five Car         .52    0.00    0.00    0.00     .52    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  AEF Kaila Lodge          .14    0.00    0.00    0.00     .14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF JY Estates           .89    0.00    0.00    0.00     .89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  AEF Pentire              .67    0.00    0.00    0.00     .67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Finance Bank            4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  IMDHZ                   0.00     .50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .50    0.00    0.00
1998                  AEF Amaka Cotton        1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Nicozam                 0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   13.53    1.02    0.00   13.59   11.03     .72    0.00   13.59
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  AEF DRILLTECH            .20    0.00     .15    0.00
1999                  AEF MPELEMBE             .70    0.00     .30    0.00
1998                  AEF PREMIER LAP.        0.00    0.00     .65    0.00
1997                  AEF ZAMBIA COFF.        1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  SAFARI INTL.            2.00     .75    0.00    0.00
1999                  ZAMCELL                 4.50     .60    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:          8.70    1.35    1.10    0.00



ZAMBIA
Evolution of Policy Reform Agreements
A. MACRO
ERC                   PIRC                 PIRC II                  ESAC                  ERIP                  ESAC 11                   RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                 (6/92)                (6/93)                 (3/94)                (7/95)
General fiscal and     General fiscal and     General fiscal and    General fiscal and     General fiscal and    General fiscal and       Primary fiscal balance changed from a deficit of
monetary perfomance    monetary performance    monetary performance   monetary performance    monetary performance   monetary performance  7 percent of GDP in 1991 to about I percent of
with specific limit on net                                                                                                                surplus in 1996
banking credit
Annual inflation reduced from over 100 percent
In 1991-1994 to 26 percent in November 1998
Harmonize sales tax on                       Time-bound action plan  Introduce VAT                                Zambia Revenue Authority has increased tax
imports and domestic                        for VAT;                                                              collection performance;
products                                     Ensure parastatal                                                    VAT introduced July 1995
Reform business                              dividends paid directly
taxation and broaden tax                     to Govemment
bases
Redirect budget to     Continue redirection of  Redirect budget to social   Social sector share of budget increased from 28
social sectors and within  public spending from    sectors and within those   in 1993 to over 36 percent in 1996 and 1997.
those to certain priority  low-priority areas to    to certain priority
categories, e.g., drugs    social services   categories, e.g., drugs and
and primary education                        primary education
Increase nominal                                                                                                   Interest rates completely decontrolled in 1993;
interest rates                                                                                                     Treasury Bill auction established in 1993
Improve budget        Prepare guidelines for  Cash budget eliminates excess of domestic
management           operation of the Cash    spending over revenues;
procedures to avoid   Budget;
arrears and unplanned                         System for monitoring arrears introduced
spending              Adopt and distribute
procedures and guidelines
for Zambia National
Tender Board;
Establish time bound
plan for public
procurement, covering
computerization, record
keeping, training,
administrative
strengthening and
extemal monitoring
Phase out maize        Eliminate maize and                                                                                                Maize and fertilizer subsidies eliminated
subsidies              fertilizer subsidies
0



B. TRADE
ERC                   PIRC                 PIRC 11                 ESAC                    ERIP                    ESAC 11                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                (6/92)                 (6/93)                 (3/94)                 (7/95)
Achieve market                                                                                                                               Exchange rate determined by market forces
clearing exchange rate
in second-window
forex market
Expand OGL to all but                                                                                                                        All quantitative restrictions on imports removed
a small negative list                                                                                                                        other than those for health, safety and
environmental resources
Remove export bans                                                  Eliminate remaining                                                      All export bans removed except for
(except for ivory, oil,                                             export ban on maize                                                      environmental reasons
maize, and fertilizer)
Compress tariffrates   Reduce top tarifffrom    More tariff reduction                      Provide relief from     Adopt a tariff structure   Highest tariffrate reduced from 100 to 25
1000/o to 50%; adopt    and compression                            transitional anomalies in  with a maximum rate of  percent, and number oftariff bonds reduced to 4
strategy for further                                                the tariff structure    25%. Many raw materials
tariffreduction                                                                             would be free of tariffs,  Mechanism for relief from tariff anomalies
Introduction of VAT     capital goods would bc    adopted in 1994
will automatically lower  charged 5%, intermediate
protection by          goods 15% and final goods  Most raw materials subject to zero tariffs
eliminating 'up-lift"   25%
factor                                            Transparency and simplicity oftariffstructure
Eliminate most tariff     improved with the elimination of most
exemptions, including for   exemptions in 1996
Govemment purchases,
and no introduction of new
exemptions; qualifying
NGOs to be given refunds
or vouchers for customs
duties
Simplify and liberalize                                                  Implementation of changes in the design of the
duty drawback system                                                     duty drawback scheme initiated in April 1998
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)T



C. PRIVATE SECTOR
ERC                   PIRC                   PIRC 11                  ESAC                  ERIP                    ESAC 11                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/9 1)                (6/92)                  (6/93)                 (3/94)                 (7/95)
Reform Investment       Evaluate effectiveness                                                                          Investment Act of 1991 replaced with new Act
Law; prepare            of reformed Investment                                                                          in 1993;
investment guidelines;    Act and Investment                                                                            Investment Center reorganized
streamline operations of  Center                                                                                        Investment Guidelines issued in 1995
Investment Center                                                                                                       Measures to streamline investment approvals
l____________________  _____________________                             implemented   in   1997
Liberalize licensing                          Prepare action plan for                                                                         Licensing requirements reviewed and
for small-scale                               SSE deregulation                                                                                simplified for new businesses
enterprise
Develop action plan for   Create legal basis for                     Implement 1995 Land Act   Market for leasehold land liberalized and
land market             market in leasehold                          including the Land         regularized in 1995
land and facilitate                          Tribunal and the Land
subdivision of land                          Development Fund;
and property                                 The Ministry of Lands to
establish a baseline
performance assessment of
its leaseholds grants;
Informal urban settlements
to be regularized
Increase budget                                                         Road Maintenance Fund established, funded
allocation for road                                                     by excise tax on fuel
maintenance                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
National Housing Policy    National Housing Policy issued in 1995
Amend Employment, and
Industrial and Labor
Relations Acts
Begin liberalization                                                                                                                           Marketing of all crops liberalized in 1992
of maize marketing   _ _        _ _        _-__i_es_for_                                                                                                             __g_
Decontrol fertilizer                                                                                                                           All prices for agricultural products and inputs
decontrolled
Begin reducing        Eliminate consumer                                                                                                       Consumer subsidies ended in 1993
consumer maize        maize subsidy
subsidy
Adopt new mining sector    Mining policy statement approved by Cabinet
policy to encourage private  in 1995
sector investment;
Adopt new legal, fiscal and
environmental              New legal, environmental, and fiscal
frameworks;                frameworks for mining adopted in 1995
Strengthen capacity of
Ministry of Mines to       Training and reorganization plan prepared       ID
oversee new legal, fiscal  under mining sector technical assistance       oa
and environmental
frameworks                                                                 O   C



D. FINANCIAL SECTOR
ERC                 PIRC                 PIRC II                ESAC                    ERIP                  ESAC 11               RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)              (6/92)                (6/93)                (3/94)                  (7/95)
Reform Securities Law                                                                                            Foreign Exchange transactions liberalized,
and exchange rate market determined;
Eliminated all interventions in credit
allocations and interest rates;
BOZ introduced Treasury Bills weekly
Establish stock                                                                                                  auctions;
exchange and adopt                                                                                               Reduced high reserve and liquidity
capital market                                                                                                   requirements for commercial banks;
regulations                                                                                                      Changed Banking and Financial Services
Law to place all financial institutions under
Amend Bank of                                                                              BOZ supervision;
Zambia Act to                                                                              Issued BOZ regulations for banks;
strengthen prudential                                                                      Developed a Stock Exchange and
regulations of banks                                                                       established a Securities Exchange
commission to regulate it
End public         Reform business       Adopt business        Implement simplified    Reform insurance industry                     Opened the insurance industry to private
monopoly on        legislation           legislation           procedures of 1993    policies and laws                               companies; new insurance law adopted
insurance industry                                             Investment Act        (including pension-fund
management companies)
and set up new regulatory
and supervisory agency   _
Prepare action plans                        Adopt policy framework                         Adopted new policy and strategy for term
for DBZ, Eximbank                           and strategy for provision                     finance in 1995
and Lima Bank                               of term finance to private
sector;                                        Decvelopment Bank of Zambia has ceased
Restructure DBZ as apex                        new lending since 1997
bank and create collection
agency for DBZ loan                            Apex established to on-lend external funds
portfolio;                                     to private sector through commercial banks
Privatize or close down
Eximbank and Lima Bank;                        Stopped budget allocations to agricultural
Reform rural credit and                        credit institutions in 1995
reorient Govemment-
owned credit institutions                      Eximbank and LIMA Bank in liquidation
J I



E. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
ERC                    PIRC                  PIRC II                ESAC                        ERIP                       ESAC 11             RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                 (6/92)                 (6/93)                (3/94)                      (7/95)
Eliminate "ghost     Eliminate surplus civil                        Improve retention                                        Maintain adequate    Approved use of in-kind benefits for
workers" by physical   service staff and "ghost                    incentives for high                                       information system    severance payments in 1994
survey               workers"                                       level staff                                              with reliable data on
number and
Identify staffing    Retrench 10,000 workers                        Reduce up-front cash                                     deployment of        Nearly all workers now paid by check
needs in line        and develop deeper                             costs of severance                                       teachers
ministries           restructuring program;                         benefits                                                                      Launched a public sector reform
include compensation                                                                                                        program; about 15,000 public
measures                                                                                                                    employees retrenched since 1997;
restructuring plans for 14 ministries
_ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~approved
F. PRIVATIZATION
Announce             Adopt overall             Update Privatization   Begin sale of state-                                                        Adopted Privatization Act in 1992
privatization policy  privatization plan/strategy   Program         owned firms
and develop                                                                                                                                       Established Zambia Privatization
modalities           Enact Privatization Law                                                                                                      Agency (ZPA) in 1992
Offer at least 6     Complete sale of at least   Offer for sale 60                                                                                Offered for sale 280 entities;
parastatals for sale  10 companies; and offer    companies;
for sale companies       Reach point of sale                                                                                Completed sale or liquidated 223
accounting for 10 percent  for 20 companies;                                                                                entities by December 1998
of total turnover of     Complete sale or
companies in program     liquidate at least 15
companies;
Offer for sale additional    Offer for sale a total
10 parastatals           of 60 companies
Recruit all key ZPA                                                                                ZPA operational since 1992
staff
Establish                                                                                          PTF set-up in 1993
Privatization Trust                                                                                PTF received shares in Chilanga
: ________________    ____________________     Fund  (PTF)                                                                                         Cement in  1995
Study options to                                                                                   Study completed; privatization under
privatize ZCCM                                                                                     way
Complete assessment                                                                                Initial impact assessment completed
of impact of
privatization on
specific target groups                                                                             First_stage
Adopt and begin implementing plans                      First stage of the two-stage
to privatize and restructure ZCCM                       privatization plan, which split
Adopt plans to develop Konkola Deep                     ZCCM's operations into packages, is
project on urgent basis in joint-venture                almost complete. Two packages were
with private sector in manner resulting                 subject to direct negotiations of which
in majority private-sector ownership                    one has been sold. The other
and management                                          packages were offered publicly, and
several of these and other major assets   t 
have been sold. Negotiations for the      O
four largest remaining packages are
advanced and these are expected to be
sold in early-1999.



G. PARASTATALS MANAGEMENT
ERC                      PIRC                  PIRC II                   ESAC                    ERIP                    ESAC 11                   RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                   (6/92)                  (6/93)                  (3/94)                   (7/95)          _ _ _-mbia_ __-_ys
Complete studies of                                                      Adoption of acceptable                                                       Zambia Airways liquidated in 1994
Zambia Airways, Post                                                     financial plan for Zambia
and Telecoms, and                                                        Airways                                                                      Telecoms separated from Post and
Zambia Railways                                                                                                                                       commercialized in 1995
Grant autonomy to all                                                                                                        UBZ closed in 1995
other parastatals
ZIMCO to be                                                                                                                  ZIMCO closed in 1995. Directorate of
restructured and sub-                                                                                                       State Enterprises set up under Ministry of
holding companies                                                                                                           Finance
abolished
Establish autonomy of    Study long-tern                                                                                    Utilities given authority to set their prices
key parastatal utilities  regulatory                                                                                        based on agreed mechanisms
and establish transitional   arrangement for
regulatory system,       utilities
including price
I adjustment mechanisms  I
H. SOCIAL SECTORS
ERC                      PIRC                  PIRC 11                   ESAC                       ERIP                   ESAC 11                 RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                   (6/92)                  (6/93)                   (3/94)                    (7/95)
Implementation schedule   Develop improved social
for Social Action        action program and
Program                  begin implementation
Increase budget                                                          Meet minimum budget        Meet minimum budget       Maintain a social       Overall budget allocations improved
allocation for education                                                 and spending targets for    and spending targets for    sector budget of at
key social services in    key social services in     least 35 percent in     Social sector share of budget increased
1994                      1995                       1996                    from 28 in 1993 to over 36 percent in
1996 and 1997
Expand role of NGOs in                               Formulate a policy on    Sector strategies adopted
social services delivery                             collaboration with      Decentralization of service delivery begun
NGOs
Decentralize delivery of
health and education
services
Adopt comprehensive                                                          Water sector policy adopted in 1994
water sector policy
Prepare an Education
Sector strategy
Formulate a national
drug procurement
policy



I. SOCIAL SECURITY
ERC                   PIRC                  PIRC 11                 ESAC                     ERIP                    ESAC 11                RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/9 1)                (6/92)                 (6/93)                 (3/94)                   (7/95)
Reform Social                                     New Social Security Act Passed by
Security/Pension Fund                             Parliament.
System
Adopt action plan to                              Adopted refonn strategy by NSSRISC
cover unfunded liabilities                        based on joint Bank/lLO study in 1995
of existing statutory
pension funds                                     Draft legislation under preparation
Repeal 22-years-of-
service compulsory
retirement law and
modify benefit formulae
and early retirement
conditions
Adopt action plan to
improve administration
and operations of Zambia                          Approved Cabinet Memorandum on
National Provident Fund                           Social Security Reform in 1995
riQ



- 38 -
Annex F
Zambia at a glance                                                                 Page Iof 2
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Zambia    Africa  Income        Devtopmnt dlamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (flYJkos)                       9.4       614     2.048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfas method, USS)                   380       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, USS$ bons)                        3.6       309       722
Avrage annual growth, 19914J7
Population (X)                                       2.7       2.7       2.1     G
Laborforce(s)                                        2.8       2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gmrss
per                  .        primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991.97)                            capita                       enrollment
Poverty (X opopulaton below naflonal poverty ne)      86
Urban population (% of total Population)              44        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      43        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lAS bArhs)               113        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of dukfen under5)               29        27         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (X ofpopulatfon)                 43        44        71
Illiteracy (% ofpopulaon age 15+)                     22        43        47                  Zambia
Gross primary enrofment    odshoo-age populafion)     89        75        91
Male                                                92        82       100                  Lowincorme group
Female                                              86        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996     1997
Economic ratios
GOP (USS olidons)                            2.7     1.7        3.3      3.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP              31.5    23.8        14.9     14.5                    Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP          43.3    42.2        33.8     31.7
Gross domestic savingsGDP                  36.4    22.1         8.7      9.3
Gross national savingstGDP                  27.0      1.3       2.0      3.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -4.5   -22.5      -12.9    -11.3      .oxlsti
Interest payrments/GDP                      2.5      4.2       2.2       1.5     Dongs    ;Investmnent
Total debt/GDP                             69.2   345.2      217.8    174.4        avings
Total debt service/exports                  16.1    50.9       21.7      21.6
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..
Present value of debt/exports                 ..I..b..n..
Indebtedness
197646  198747      1996      1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 0.2      0.8     6.5        3.4      4.4                   Zambia
GNP per capita                     4.1      -0.9     4.8        1.4      2.3                   Low-income group
Exportsofgoodsandservices          -4.2      1.8     4.8       14.6      8.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1996     1997      Growth ratesofoutputandlnvesb.nt ()
(% of GDP)                                                                       eo
Agriculture                                 15.5    13.6       17.7     18.6
Industry                                   44.3    49.4        34.9     34.6    40..
Manufactufing                             15.7    25.2       13.5      13.5    20
Services                                    40.2    37.0       47.5     46.7
Pdvate consumption                          38.4    51.0       78.8     79.4    -20      9
General govemnent consumption               25.2    26.9       12.5      11.3              -GD1           *-GDP
Imports of goods and servlces               38.4    43.9       39.9     37.0
197646  198747       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growt)                                                           e
Agrtcufture                                  0.9    -4.5       -0.6     -5.1       .
Industry                                    -0.9    -2.8        0.2      8.7    40
Manufactudng                               1.2    -9.9        5.5       7I      20
Servines                                     0.2      6.9      152        3.2
0
Pdvate consumption                           0.0      0.4       4.2      2.6   -20 s     2 o46  97
General govemment consumption               -1.3    -9.3      -10.5      0.7
Gross donmstic invtment                     -9.9     9.0        9.6     25.4   -40
Imports of goods and servces                -6.9    -1.6       -3.6     19.2             -    Expofs    -e--imports
Gross national product                      -1.0     2.0        7.6      3.9
Note: 1997 data are prliminary edimetes.
The diamonds show four key indiators in the country Qn bokld oompared with its inome-group average. If dala are nissing. the dibmond wiN
be Incomplete.



-39 -
Annex F
Page 2 of 2
Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT RNANCE
1976    1986       1996     1997      inflation %)
Domestfc ptrcest
(% change)                                                                       2.
Consumer prces                              18.8    51.8       46.3     24.8    150
Implicik GDP deflator                       15.2    82.0       24.3     25.9       _ _       _    _     _    _     _
Govermrent finance                                                                o.
(% of GOP, kcAiades curmnt grants)
Current revenue                               ..    23.4       20.6     19.8             92   93   94  9f   9s   97
Current budget balance                        ..   -22.3        2.1      1.4             -     GDPderfator    0  CPI
Overall surphis/deficit                       ..   -28.2       46.7     -6.2
TRADE
(UiS$ ,nitik,s)                            1976    1986       1996      1997     Export and Inport levels (USS nmions)
Total expols (fob)                         1,029     698       993    1,119    1,400
Copper                                       ..    572        567      623    1.200
Z'inc                                         .      49       187      185    1.0
Manufactures                                          *-      168      180      c           _ I_ ri-1
Total impots (cit)                          668      580      1.055    1,056      coo am     111111
Food                                         ..      17        25       12      40DlIIl
Fuel and energy                                      72        51       87      2_
91  92  93  94  ff  sc  97
Export pdoe index (19958100)                   ..     67        84        84
Import price index (1995.100)                38       68        96        91              cExports      Dtmporls
Terms of trade (1995.100)                      ..     99        S8        93
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ Sditions- 1976    1986                                   1996      1997     Currnt account balance to GDP ratio (%
Exportsofgoodsandservlces                  1,112     748      1,113    1,230      0 ---  -
Imports of goods and services               979      778      1,316    1,432        1911 92  93 1 1          s
Resource balance                            133      -29       -203     -202    -4
Net income                                  -147    -307       -206     -219    -10 .11
Net current transfers                          .       ..       -17      -16
Current account balance                     -125    -375       -426     -438
Financing iRems (nat)                        72      -77       478       463    -20
Changes in net reserves                      53      452        -52      -25    -25
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (USSnltiions)        115       71       211       238
Conversion rate (DEC, !ocMUSS)               0.7      7.8   1,20a7   1,333.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996     1997
(USS nl'J5s)                                                                     Compositon of total debt, 1997 (USS mnillons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,898    5,745     7,181    6,758
IBRD                                      254      460       105        62                    G G.62
IDA                                         0      190      1,406    1,493              F: 155                         |
Total debt service                          180      386       246       282
IBRD                                       19       60        58        40
IDA                                         0        2        12        14
Composlion of net resource Nlova
Official grants                                    124       276       378       E 2,8t4
Official credioms                         129      197        86        87                                    C: 1,138
Ptivate credItors                          35      127        -25        9
Foreign ded investment                      ..       0        58        70
Portfolio equity                            ..       ..        ..       ..                           D:672
Wodrd Bank program
Commitments                                45       70       125       187     A - laRD                    E - Blateal
Disbursements                              74      114       181       169     B-IDA     D-Otrmutwilatwal   F-Private
Prncipal repayments                         4       27        50        38     C-IMF                       0- Shoat-tern
Neltlooto                                  70       87       131       131   1
Interet paymenbt                           1S       34        20        16
Net Iransfeam                              5        53       111       115
Development Ecocnomis                                                                                            1218198



PSREP MATRIX OF POLICY AGREEMENTS
AREA AND OBJECTIVE                   BOARD PRESENTATION                      SECOND TRANCHE                    FLOATING TRANCIIE
ZCCM PRIVATIZATION - Facilitate   *   Agreement reached on draft ZCCM    *   Satisfactory audit of ZCCM's
implementation by assisting with ZCCM    redundancy plan                        implementation of agreed
labor reduction program.             *   Agreement reached on ZCCM              redundancy plan
reorganization plan for which     *   Satisfactory progress in
approval will be sought from ZCCM     implementing ZCCM
Board                                 reorganization plan
*   Transfer of ownership and
control for remaining ZCCM
assets
PUBLIC SERVICE REFORM -              *   Action Plan on PSRP adopted by                                         *   Agreement on revised action and
Improve efficiency by streamlining        Cabinet covering public sector pay,                                       implementation plan for PSRP,
staff, aligning salaries, and improving   employment levels, and                                                    which is approved by Cabinet,
management.                               management procedures and                                                 and its initial implementation
proposals for conducting civil
service census and private sector                                                                                         0
pay survey
* Progress in implementing PSRP
action plan, particularly in reducing
payroll and tightening establishment
controls
PRIVATE SECTOR GROWTH -              *   Changes to enhance DDB and MUB   *   Satisfactory operation of DDB
Improve investment climate and            schemes announced and                 and MUB schemes
incentives, especially for exports.       implementation begun              *   Agreement on an action plan to
*   IDF eliminated                        streamline investment promotion
*   Measures for streamlining the
investment promotion process
publicized and under
implementation
SOCIAL SERVICES - Improve            *   Agreement reached on funding       *   Actual spending in 1999, at time
delivery of social services               levels for social services in 1999    of program review, on social
and on a plan for monitoring actual   services consistent with
expenditures                          agreement
>Ix



- 41 -                            Annex H
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT
Performance Indicators
Several indicators of economic and social performance will be used to assess the impact
of this operation. These relate to economic outcomes expected as a result of policy
changes, rather than the agreed policy and institutional changes themselves. They will be
reviewed during supervision and after the operation has been completed and there has
been time for the changes to have had an effect, typically two to five years after the
closing date. These assessments will inevitably entail a large degree of judgment, as it is
very difficult to trace causality between actions taken under the proposed operation and
these performance outcomes. Moreover, performance indicators do not substitute for in-
depth assessments and analyses of overall economic performance over time.
The following variables will be monitored as part of this effort to assess performance:
A. Macroeconomic Management
* government revenue and expenditure as a share of GDP
* external reserves
* inflation
* external debt and debt service relative to GDP
* domestic savings and investment relative to GDP.
B. Public Sector Management
* perceived quality of public services as indicated by beneficiary assessments
and private sector business climate surveys
C. Fostering Private Sector Growth
* growth of non-traditional exports
* copper and cobalt production and exports
* number of public sector companies offered for sale and sold and/or liquidated



- 42 -
Annex H
Page2of2
* direct foreign investment, in general and in copper and cobalt mining, in
particular.
D. Investing in Human Resources and Other Social Services
*  school participation rates by age, sex and geographic distribution
*  school achievement (as measured by pass rates)
*  infant and child mortality rates
*  nutrition indicators, especially of children



43 -                             Annex I
Page I of 13
29th December, 1998
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President, Africa Region
World Bank
Washington, DC
USA
RE: PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM AND EXPORT PROMOTION CREDIT:
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Govemment has negotiated a new Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) covering the period 1999-2001.
Concurrently, a new Policy Framework Paper 1999-2001 (PFP), which outlines the
Government's main economic objectives and the accompanying strategies, has been
formulated in collaboration with the staff of the World Bank and the IMF and has been
adopted by the cabinet.
2.    The main macroeconomic objectives for the period 1999-2001 are to lay the basis
for sustained economic growth of 4Y/2 percent per year, further reduction in inflation and a
strengthening of the external payments position. The ultimate objectives of these policies
will be to reduce the incidence of poverty in Zambia from the current estimate of 70
percent to 50 percent by the year 2004.
3.    During the programme period, the Government will continue with its stabilisation
efforts through prudential fiscal and monetary policies. These policies will be
complemented by structural and institutional reforms, of which the most fundamental
ones relate to the privatisation programme, public service reform, export promotion and
strengthening of the banking sector. Other reforms and measures that will be
implemented are measures to improve the framework for energy pricing, provision of
growth-enabling infrastructure, rural development and targeted poverty reduction and
alleviation programmes.
4.  The purpose of this Letter is to inform you about policy reforms in these areas of
reform and adjustment. We are seeking IDA assistance to support these reforms through
the Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Credit (PSREP)



- 44 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 13
II. RECENT ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS
5.    Since the end of 1991, far-reaching policy reforms have been implemented.
These include:
* the decontrol of agricultural prices and the liberalisation of maize marketing;
*  substantial progress on a comprehensive parastatal reform and privatisation
programme;
* the decontrol of commodity prices and interest rates;
* the removal of exchange controls;
* the liberalisation of the financial sector, in particular the banking and insurance
sub-sectors; and,
*  the dismantling of quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, as well as the
reduction of the level and dispersion of customs tariffs.
6.    These reforms, coupled with efforts to pursue stable financial policies, have
started to improve the economic outlook. The domestic budget balance, which was one
of the chief destabilising factors, was reduced and subsequently turned positive in 1995.
In 1996 and 1997, the overall cash balance was maintained at 1.2 percent of GDP. The
fiscal policy stance combined with tight moretary policies contributed to a steady decline
in the level and rate of inflation, falling from over 100 percent in 1991 to about 18
percent by the end of 1997. Similarly, the exchange rate and interest rates were also
stabilised during the period. Economic growth, however, has been uneven due partly to
adverse weather conditions, and the weaknesses in the performance of the mining sector.
Between 1991 and 1995, the economy declined by an average of 1 percent annually.
Consequently, real per capita Gross Domestic product (GDP) declined by 13 percent
during the period. Economic activity recovered significantly in 1996 and 1997, with real
GDP expanding by 6.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively.
7.  As a result of adverse weather conditions, the sharp decline in copper exports and
copper prices, and the weakening financial position of ZCCM, real GDP contracted by an
estimated 2 percent in 1998. Inflation increased from the beginning of 1998 to 26 percent,
reflecting mainly increases in domestic food prices and pass through effect of the
depreciation of the Kwacha since late 1997. In addition, due to the delay in donor support
for balance of payments, the budget experienced cost overruns mainly on public service
retrenchment and arrears. As a result, the targeted domestic budget surplus of 1.9 percent
of GDP was not realised and the foreign exchange reserves were depleted.
III. OBJECTIVES OF POLICY 1999-2001
8.    The Government medium term programme aims at achieving macro-economic
stability, accelerating economic growth through investment and exports, and reducing
poverty. These objectives are consistent with the Government's long term vision of the
Zambian economy as one with a rapidly growing private sector operating in a
competitive and stable economic environment, with the public sector focusing on the
provision of support services and enforcement of laws and regulations. To this end, we
propose to take measures in three areas: (1) stabilisation measures to establish and



-45 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 13
maintain internal and extemal balance; (2) structural adjustment measures to strengthen
the basis for a market based and outward oriented economy; and (3) social-sector policies
aimed at poverty reduction and human resource development.
9.    The objectives for the 1999-2001 period are to achieve economic growth of about
5 percent on average per year while reducing the rate of inflation from 26 percent in 1998
to 15 percent in 1999 and further down to 4 percent by 2001. To bolster our ability to
respond to external shocks, gross official reserves will increase to 1.2 months import
cover in 1999 and rise further to 2.2 months import cover by 2001. The external current
account deficit is expected to widen from 7 percent of GDP in 1998 to 8.3 percent of
GDP in 2001, largely on account of foreign investment in the copper sector, which will
be financed from private capital inflows. Government's role will be centred on the
provision of infrastructure, the maintenance of a favourable policy environment for
achieving high growth rates in mining, agriculture, tourism and manufacturing, and the more
effective delivery of social and other support services.
10.   The annual growth projections over the 1999-2001 period are based on an annual
increase in copper production of 6 percent, agricultural output growth of some 51/2
percent, and an increase of non-traditional exports of 15 percent annually. The
completion of the privatisation process will enable an increase in manufacturing output
by 5 percent per year. These growth prospects are underpinned by an expected increase
in gross investment, from 17 percent of GDP in 1998 to 20 percent in 2001. The increase
is to come from private investment in the mining sector, export agriculture,
manufacturing and tourism, while public investment is expected to rise from 6.1 percent
of GDP in 1998 to 7.4 percent of GDP by 2001. The increase in investment is expected to
be financed by the inflow of foreign private capital and rising public savings. Private
domestic savings are expected to remain constant at 3.8 percent of GDP over the 1999-
2001 period.
11. Zambia's heavy external public debt burden will require continued reliance on debt
relief and concessional balance of payments assistance for the foreseeable future. We
hope to qualify for assistance under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
Initiative, as it is not expected that the external debt burden can be reduced to sustainable
levels without such supplementary debt relief. The Government recognises that continued
assistance from Paris Club creditors and the qualification for the HIPC Initiative will
depend on a strong track record under IMF and World Bank-supported programmes in
the coming years.
IV. STABILISATION MEASURES
Fiscal Policies
12.   Key fiscal targets for 1999-2001 are to bring the overall fiscal deficit of
(including grants) to below 1 percent of GDP by 2001 and to generate domestic budget
surpluses of some 1.3 percent of GDP, which would create the necessary room for the
expansion of private sector activity. The fiscal stance will also allow the Zambia to
reduce over the medium-term its dependence on external assistance as a source of budget



- 46 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 13
financing. The principal key to achieving fiscal objectives will lie in the strengthening cf
tax administration and public expenditure management system. Tax administration will
be improved to increase effective tax yields, particularly with respect to income and
corporate taxes. The public expenditure management system will be strengthened to
avoid domestic arrears and ensure the proper execution of the budget.
13.   The revenue-GDP ratio is programmed to increase by I1/2 percentage points over
the medium-term. The Government will build on the progress already made in
restructuring the tax system, which will involve a further shift of the incidence of taxation
towards domestic sources away from international trade. Given the limited scope for
raising tax rates, the bulk of domestic revenue improvements will be found in a more
efficient tax administration. The performance of the Value Added Tax system will be
improved by further reducing fraud, while the current one rate structure will be
maintained. In addition, the company income tax rate structure will be reviewed with a
view to its unification. Efforts to combat smuggling and customs frauds will be
intensified by strengthening customs administration and intensifying co-operation with
customs officials in neighbouring countries.
14.   The Government recognises that public expenditures need to be restructured to
safeguard priority spending in the social sectors and infrastructure development. A
specific area to be addressed is the public service wage bill. The reduction in the size of
the public service will allow the Government to reduce wage payments in percent of total
domestic non-interest expenditures from 34 percent in 1998 to 25 percent in 2001, while
decompressing and maintaining the wage bill relative to GDP at 5 percent in 1999. The
reduction in the stock of domestic debt and declining interest rates will lead to a drop in
interest payments of almost 3/4 percentage points of GDP between 1999 and 2001. Lower
wage and interest payments in relation to GDP will create room for the needed increases
in domestically financed capital investment and social expenditures. Between 1998 and
2001, domestically financed public investment is projected to increase by almost 2
percentage points to 3 Y2percent of GDP. This increase will be realised in the context of a
medium term Public Investment Programme that identifies the priority infrastructure
projects in support of the development of the agriculture and agro industrial production,
tourism and exports, as well as through an improved delivery of social services.
Monetary and Exchange Rate Policies
15.   Monetary and credit policies will play a crucial role in reducing the rate of
inflation. A strong anti-inflationary policy will require improvements in the effectiveness
of monetary policy, including the broadening of instruments. In this context, the Bank of
Zambia (BOZ) will intensify the use open market operations and reduce the reliance on
cash and liquidity reserve requirements as instruments of credit control. An enhancement
of confidence in the internal and external value of the Kwacha will also help the BoZ
develop a market for medium and long term Government bonds. This will widen the
available options for open market operations and reduce the sensitivity of the
Government budget to short term fluctuations in interest rates. In addition, the
supervisory and inspection functions of the BoZ will continue to be strengthened in order
to ensure public confidence in the banking system.



- 47 -                                Annex I
Page 5 of 13
16.   The exchange rate of the Kwacha is market determined, and the BOZ intends to
continue its policy of refraining from interventions in the foreign exchange market that
go against the underlying market trends. The authorities will closely monitor conditions
in the exchange market and price and exchange rate developments in major trading
partner countries and will adjust policies if exchange rate developments jeopardise
inflation objectives or the profitability of Zambia's tradable goods sector.
V. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT MEASURES
Privatisation
ZCCM
17.  In the mining sector, the key challenge is to complete the privatisation of ZCCM,
thereby mobilising the capital, technology and management needed to develop new ore
bodies and restore the sector to financial health. To accomplish this, a two-stage
Privatisation Plan has been adopted. During the first stage, ZCCM is disposing of its
majority interests to private investors. In the second stage, the residual ZCCM will
collect outstanding receivables, settle short-term liabilities, manage ZCCM's long term
liabilities and its minority interest in the privatised companies, and oversee a programme
to reduce the residual labour force from about 7,400 people (25 percent of ZCCM's
current labour force) to about 30 over the first half of 1999. The structure of the holding
company has been designed and approved by the ZCCM board as part of a transformation
plan, which will be in place by March 1999. Government shares in the residual ZCCM
will then be sold through public flotations to the Zambian public and other investors.
18.   The first stage of this plan is close to completion. As of end-December, 1998,
Memorandum of Understandings on the sale of all publicly-offered ZCCM asset
packages has been finalised, including the Nchanga and Nkana Divisions, the largest of
the units. The new owners have undertaken to take over most of the existing labour force
and to honour existing terms and conditions of service. Government has aimed to
facilitate the privatisation of ZCCM by improving productivity through the reduction of
the labour component of overheads and centralised technical services and by minimising
the social cost of adjustment. In addition, all self-contained non-mining assets of ZCCM
have been offered to the public through management buyouts or public auctions. The
Schedule for completion of the sales transactions is:
* January 1999:         Anglo-American relinquish Mufulira smelter and
signing of sales agreement for Mufulira
* February 1999:        Transfer of Mufulira Mining Assets to new owners
* February 1999:        Signing of Sales agreement for remaining mining assets
*  March 1999:          Transfer of remaining assets to new owners
* March 1999:           Completion of sale of non-mining assets
19.   The labour reduction programme will be implemented over the period January
1999-March 2000 and will in part be financed out of the proceeds of the PSREP Credit to



- 48 -                            Annex I
Page 6 of 13
Government which will be on-lent to ZCCM. The estimated cost of the programme is US
$67 million. Government and ZCCM have developed a redundancy plan which has been
approved by the ZCCM Board and includes, mechanisms for identifying those to receive
payment, the terms of those payments, and the on-lending agreement between
Government and ZCCM.
20.   To minimise potential abuses of the redundancy programme and encourage
preference for continued employment in the privatised operations, ZCCM will:
* actively promote the skills and services which are found in the Corporate Head
Office, the Operations Centre and the operating mines prior to hand-over to the new
owners;
* consult with the new owners to ensure that those workers that are needed by the latter
are not inadvertently retrenched; and
*  agree with the new owners that the redundancy compensation will be paid back to
ZCCM by the new owners, if the retrenched worker is re-employed by the new
owners within a two-year period of the date of transfer of ownership.
Non-ZCCM Parastatals
21.   Privatisation of state owned enterprises is a key element of Government's efforts
to raise efficiency and bolster economic growth. Since 1992, significant progress has
been made in the implementation of the privatisation programme. As of December 1998,
223 state enterprises were privatised out of Zambia Privatisation Agency's (ZPA) total
working portfolio of 280. Among the assets sold, seven are ZCCM assets. Other major
companies still in negotiations are Zambia Forest and Forestry Industries Limited,
Nitrogen Chemicals Limited, Kafue Textiles Limited and Ndola Lime Limited.
22.   Over the medium term ZPA will focus on the large utility companies, parastatals
in the petroleum and transport sectors, and financial institutions. The Government intends
to offer a minority shareholding and management rights in the telecommunication
company (ZAMTEL) and intends to study options for the commercialisation of the
electricity company (ZESCO). The parastatals in the petroleum sector (INDENI refinery
and ZNOC) have been added to ZPA's portfolio. As regards, the transport sector, the
Government has entered into a management contract for Zambia Railways and Mulobezi
Line, and intends to put out for tender the granting of concessions with regard to the
railway system. The Zambian and Tanzanian privatisation agencies have started
discussions on options for private sector participation in the commonly owned TAZARA
railway and TAZAMA pipeline. Management rights on the operations of the National
Airports Corporation in Livingstone, Ndola and Mfuwe will be tendered as well. The
Government also intends to hand over the remaining parastatals in the communication
sector, notably ZAMPOST, to ZPA. Substantial progress is planned on the privatisation
of financial institutions. In this regard, ZPA has been requested to explore options for
divestiture of Zambia National Commercial Bank, the National Savings and Credit Bank
and Zambia State Insurance Corporation.



-49 -                                Annex I
Page 7 of 13
23.   Pending their privatisation, the energy sector companies will remain free of
political interference in their pricing policies and management decisions and will not
receive public subventions. Government has established regulatory arrangements for the
utilities. Our objective is that utility prices provide an adequate return on capital and
facilitate a sound level of performance and investment, while the utilities are making
maximum efforts to improve their efficiency and do not exploit their monopoly positions.
The Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP).
24.   The cost effectiveness of the public service has declined significantly over the
past 10 years. Personnel costs take 32 percent of domestic fiscal resources and crowd out
expenditure on essential supplies and capital spending. As wage levels and pay
differentials have been compressed, it has become difficult to attract and retain skilled
personnel. Moreover, even the available manpower is not used efficiently because of
inappropriate management and organisational structures. Consequently, the public service
has become generally unresponsive to the country's needs.
25.   In 1993, a Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP) was initiated, with the goal
of strengthening the effectiveness, efficiency and quality of services delivered by the
public service. This was to be achieved by, amongst other things, restructuring ministries
and provinces, introducing Performance Management and Human Resource Management
Systems and decentralising certain functions to district level. A core objective was also to
reduce spending on personal emoluments (PEs) by reducing public servant numbers, so
improving the ratio of Recurrent Departmental Charges to PEs. On September 1 1997, a
revised PSRP was adopted that targeted a reduction in public sector workers from
136,984 as at June 1997 to 80,000 by the end of 1999. The new PSRP also included the
decompression of salaries so as to improve remuneration for the higher/skilled grades.
26.   Substantial progress has been made during 1998. 15,524 casual employees have
been approved for separation, with 12,375 (80 percent) having been paid their benefits
(amounting to K 57.45 billion) by end October 1998. This class of employee now
accounts for about 12 percent of the civil service compared with around 22 percent in
mid 1997. Further by 31 October 1998, 2,059 civil servants on permanent and
pensionable terms have submitted applications for voluntary separation, 939 (45.6
percent) of whom are administrative staff and 172 (8.4 percent) secretarial. The hiring
freeze is firmly in place. New hires are allowed only in critical skills required by GRZ,
i.e. doctors, lawyers and police. In other skills, new recruitment has been allowed to
replace those that have died, resigned or retired. All new hires are approved by the
Steering Committee. During the first half of 1998, 3,863 civil servants were lost through
natural attrition, while 2,400 new hires were recorded, resulting in a net loss of 1,463.
27.   During 1998, other activities that have been carried out are:
* The ongoing exercise on identifying and eliminating "ghost" employees from the
payroll, which continues to receive special attention by the Government. During
1998, the payroll has been decentralised to ministries and provinces. This has led



-50 -                                Annex I
Page 8 of 13
to a further reduction in numbers on the payroll as controlling officers are now
better placed to verify those being paid than the centralised salaries section in the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development.
*  Cabinet has approved the re-structuring plans for 12 ministries and 4 institutions,
resulting in abolition of 8,068 posts. Out of this figure, a total of 4,733 posts will
be realised through the proposed hiving-off of some Government departments and
functions with actual abolition of post contributing 3,335
*  In addition, three other institutions - the Vice President's Office, PSMD and
Cabinet Office have also had their restructuring plans approved by Cabinet. All
the remaining ministries restructuring plans will be submitted by the end of
December 1998. The Performance Management Package has been introduced into
four of the already restructured Ministries and institutions (Agriculture, Local
Government, PSMD and Environment) and will be introduced into other
restructured institutions throughout 1999.
*  Cabinet decisions have been taken to commercialise 4 institutions, (the National
Institute for Public Administration, the Registrar of Companies, Patents, Trade
Marks & Business Names and the National Parks & Wildlife Department and the
Technical Education & Vocational Training Authority). The commercialisation of
these will remove 3,754 persons from the civil service. A further two institutions
recommended for commercialisation are awaiting Cabinet approval, while three
have been recommended to Cabinet for privatisation. Two institutions are
recommended for abolition and another has been recommended ifor merger.
*  The decentralisation of payroll management has already been referred to above.
As of November 1998, there are 46 payroll centres. A second level
decentralisation of payrolls, applicable to large ministries with geographically
dispersed staff, will be implemented in 1999. Under the reformed payroll system,
each person on the payroll must be identified with a post in the establishment
register and a job title before payment is processed.
*  An analysis of the composition of the civil service has been carried out. Following
the retrenchments and natural attrition that have taken place during 1998, the size
of the civil service has dropped to 117,166 persons by end October 1998. Of this
number, 66,939 (55.1 percent) has been in service for 10 years or less.
*  The largest group of civil servants (46,395 or 39.6 percent) are those in the
ES/TES scales i.e. primary and secondary school teachers (excluding untrained
teachers) or technical education lecturers, with another 523 being school
heads/inspectors or education officers. Police and prison service officers account
for another 15,733 (13.4 percent), while medical personnel account for a further
11,803 (10.1 percent). Technical officers, employed in the fields of agriculture,
forestry, infrastructure construction and water supplies number 6,103 (5.2



Annex I
- 51 -                          Page 9 of 13
percent). These critical areas account for 80,557 Civil Servants, which is already
above the PSRP target of 80,000.
*  Of those remaining, the bulk (l9,124 or 16.3 percent) are in the GAS/GMS scales
and include untrained teachers (over a third), accounts and administrative
personnel. The next biggest group is the rump of classified employees who now
number 14,271 (12.2 percent) having been more than halved in number during
1998 through the retrenchment programme. The remaining civil servants are
lawyers and other graduates, judges, magistrates, local courts officers and
permanent secretaries.
*  The drafting of the Decentralisation Policy was completed and the draft policy
was submitted for consideration by the Social Restructuring and Development
committee of Cabinet in August 1998. The policy was approved in principle and
is now being amended in light of the Committee's decisions, before presentation
to the full Cabinet. The policy will entail further reduction in the establishments at
provincial and line ministry levels, with the devolution of functions to districts.
However, this may require creation of some posts at the district levels to
strengthen the capacity of service delivery.
28.   It is clear from the above that the 80,000 target by the end of 1999 is not realistic
or feasible. Further widespread/across the board retrenchments would seriously
undermine, if not destroy, the public sector's ability to deliver public services like health,
education and law and order and to maintain publicly owned socio-economic
infrastructure. The government is currently carrying out more detailed work to determine
the optimal size of the civil service in the medium term.
29.   Nonetheless, an additional 7,000 Civil Servants will be removed from the payroll
in 1999 through retirement, natural attrition, and the hiving off of public institutions. To
keep the reform momentum going, detailed management arrangement for PSRP will be
implemented in early 1999 along with a timetable for completing the preparation of a
revised action plan for PSRP. This plan will include clearly assigned responsibilities for
time bound actions in areas such as retrenchment, pay and pension policies, establishment
of payroll controls, ministerial restructuring, performance monitoring, and the mitigation
of the social impacts of retrenchments. It is expected that the implementation of this
action plan will begin by mid-1999. In addition, a new Civil Service remuneration
structure will be introduced after the substantial completion of retrenchment, which will
address, inter alia, the problem of compression in pay scales.
Investment and Export Promotion
30.   The Government is committed to maintaining the liberal trade and exchange
regime, and to continuing trade liberalisation as part of the Cross-Border Initiative (CBI).
The trade weighted average rate of import taxation has been reduced to below 15 percent,
and the tariff schedule consists of three non-zero rates with a maximum of 25 percent.
Over the medium term the Government aims to reduce the weighted average import tax
to 10 percent. To this effect, the maximum rate will be reduced to 20 percent in 2001.



-52 -                               Annex I
Page IO of 13
31.   Decontrol of prices, elimination of subsidies, privatisation of public enterprises,
and removal of restrictions on private sector activities have all helped to improve the
business climate and profitability of export oriented production. In particular, tariff
reduction and consolidation, and the elimination of foreign exchange controls and import
restrictions have reduced the anti-export bias of the trade regime. To build on these
achievements and sustain the supply response, the Government has undertaken the
following reforms:
*  To ensure that exporters have access to imported inputs at world prices, the Duty
Drawback Scheme (DDS - which refunds import duties to eligible exporters) and the
Manufacturing Under Bond scheme (MUB - which exempt designated exporters
from import duties) have been improved, as described in SI No. 48 of 27 March 1998,
and workshops to publicise the new procedures have been held.
*  Measures to streamline the investment approval process, including broadening the
composition of the Committee that considers Investment Certificate applications and
the establishment of a consultancy company to provide services to potential investors
with a Board of Directors that includes private sector representation, have been taken.
* To improve the process of consultation between government and the private sector on
economic policies, the joint private-public Zambia Industrial Partnership Council
(ZIPC) has been established. The Council is intended to be the main consultative
body and has broad representation from the private sector as well as the Government.
*  Eliminated the Import Declaration Fee as of July 1, 1998.
32.   The Government intends to follow these measures up as follows:
* Undertake, jointly with IDA by mid-1999, an evaluation of the working of the
revamped DDB and MUB schemes focusing in particular on the timeliness of
processing of duty refunds and responding to new exporters who wish to use the
schemes, and, the implementation of the simplified procedures and documentation for
the schemes
*  Consider additional actions to streamline the investment promotion process, including
steps needed to access infrastructure services and options for revamping and merging
concerned agencies. Before any proposals are submitted to Cabinet for approval,
these will be discussed with IDA to ensure that they are consistent with earlier
agreements and measures in these areas, with a view to agreeing on an action plan to
be implemented beyond the period covered by this Credit
 Monitor experience with ZIPC as a consultative mechanism between the Government
and the private sector
*  Ensure that trade missions/offices abroad are effective in investment and export
promotion by posting experienced trade attaches to key markets



- 53-                                 Annex I
Page II of 13
Sector Policies
Agriculture Reforms
33.   The primary objective of agricultural policies is to promote more efficient small
holder agricultural production, with the view to increasing agricultural output and export.
The Governrment's aim is to reduce the bottlenecks on the supply side, notably through
improved roads, increased access of farmers to new production and harvest technologies,
and wider access to financing. The Government will also emphasise the role of the
private sector, and from 1999/2000 refrain from intervening in the marketing of
agricultural products and input supply, except in the context of officially declared
emergencies and specifically targeted poverty reduction schemes. An important vehicle
for the co-ordination of agricultural policies is the Agricultural Sector Investment
Programme (ASIP), which combines donor support into one programme.
Tourism
34.   The slow development of Zambia's tourism sector has been due largely to limited
infrastructure and unsatisfactory management of the parastatal lodges. Several recent
developments have affected the sector positively. These include the establishment of a
number of private airlines and the leasing to the private sector of government lodges. In
order to facilitate private sector investment in the tourism sector the Government will
undertake appropriate investments in supporting infrastructure. The Zambia Wildlife Act
was passed by Parliament and will come into effect on S't January 2000 and the Tourism
and Hospitality Bill is being processed. These measures are expected to contribute to a
reduction in wildlife poaching and ensure an increase in tourism.
Transport
35.   In order to develop an efficient transport network, the Government aims to adopt
a national transport policy by mid-1999. A significant ingredient of the plan is a major
ten-year road transport investment programme (ROADSIP), which was launched in 1997
to improve and rehabilitate the road network and to eliminate the maintenance backlog.
The programme aims to increase the proportion of main roads in good condition to 45
36.   Due to poor infrastructure, coupled with past poor management, traffic handled
by ZR declined by 66 percent from 1990 to 1996. The shift in traffic to road has been
costly in terms of damage to the roads. The rehabilitation of railway transportation will
assist in the reduction of road maintenance costs. Consequently, ZR has started a track
rehabilitation programme. In addition, Government aims at private operation and
management of ZR possibly through a concessioning arrangement.
Energy
37.   In the electricity sector, the Government's main priorities are to attain financial
viability of ZESCO, restructuring it for commercialisation, facilitate private sector
investment in generation and transmission, and improving the management of the Rural



- 54 -
Annex I
Page 12 of 13
Electrification Fund. In line with the understanding with the World Bank under the
Electric Power Rehabilitation Project, ZESCO's accounts for its generation, transmission
and distribution has been separated. In addition, a new hydro power and transmission
policy has been articulated in order to promote private sector involvement in the sector.
VI. POVERTY REDUCTION
38.   The widespread poverty in Zambia is a key concern, which can only be tackled by
sustained growth in per capita income. Government intends to follow the strategies
contained in the National Poverty Reduction Plan. These strategies include, amongst
others, investment in human resources by providing more adequate and reliable social
services and improving social safety nets, which will contribute to Zaimbia's long term
prospects for growth and enhance the quality of life for its citizens.
39.   The Government's strategy for improving the delivery of social services includes
improving the policy and institutional framework, maintaining public expenditures to
specific social sector categories, and improving the effectiveness of social safety net
programmes.
40.  Improving education and training and reversing recent declines in coverage and
quality will be central to the success of the economic reform programme. Government is
embarking on an integrated Basic Education Subsector Investment Programme (BESSIP)
with the aim of increasing enrolment in primary and secondary education and improving
the quality of education as measured by student learning achievements and other
indicators. Government plans to increase the number of trained teachers with a view to
eliminating the use of untrained teachers over the medium-term.
41.   To improve the quality of health care, Government is reforming the delivery
system, encouraging private sector provision, and implementing cost sharing. The
Government will continue implementing the medium term strategy, adopted in 1995
under the Health Sector Reform Programme, which focuses on extending the provision of
an essential package of primary health care services to all Zambians. Family planning and
AIDS prevention programmes will be part of the basic package of services under the
health programme.
42.   Allocation for social sector spending has been maintained at about 36 percent of
the discretionary domestic budget of 1998. As detailed in the Annex to this Letter this
allocation will be maintained in 1999. In addition, spending on the seven specific budget
categories of non-personnel spending on health, education and social welfare shown in
the Annex will also be maintained.
43. The Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS), which is the main social safety
net programme for the poorest, has been revamped both in terms of its eligibility criteria
and operational guidelines. The new PWAS is intended to become more community
based over the coming years. Meanwhile, the Public Welfare Assistance Management
Unit and a National Poverty Reduction Unit have been established in the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services to manage PWAS and co-ordinate the



Annex I
Page 13 of 13
implementation of the Poverty Reduction Plan, respectively. To improve the nutritional
status of the population, the Govenmment has adopted recommendations based on the
recent study of nutritional problems and the role of the National Food and Nutrition
Commission (NFNC). An expanded Board of Directors for the NFNC was appointed in
January, 1998. A policy document will be presented to Cabinet by July, 1999, which
would provide the context for new institutional arrangements for implementing
nutritional programmes and the basis for reviewing the legislation in this area.
VII. PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
44.   The Economic Recovery Programme imposes formidable challenges for
successful implementation. For these reasons, and due to the need to co-ordinate the
multiple policy initiatives among ministries and agencies of Government, management of
the programme has been entrusted to a Technical Committee of Permanent Secretaries to
be chaired by the Secretary to the Treasury.
VIII. CONCLUDING REMARKS
45.   The PSREP Credit will help meet Zambia's external financing needs for
1998/1999, support macro-economic reform further and reduce poverty. IDA's assistance
is also essential to help us mobilise contributions from other donors.
Yours sincerely,
(SIGNED)
EDITH Z. NAWAKWI, MP
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



- 56 -
Annex A
Page I of 2
Social Sector Spending in 1999
The 1999 Budget reflects Government's continuing commitment to enhancing social service
delivery systems and poverty alleviation by maintaining the share of core social sector
expenditures in the health, education and water & sanitation sectors and for social safety net
operations, at over 36 percent of the discretionary domestic budget.
The actual budget figures and percentages for these social sectors and safety net programmes are
attached to this appendix.
The discretionary domestic budget is total tax revenues less domestic debt service costs,
(including the domestic surplus used to reduce government's domestic indebtedness), the
contingency reserve and the provisions made for (a) paying the domestic arrears carried forward
from 1998, (b) a civil service pay award in 1999 and (c) awards made against Government in the
courts of law.
The sectoral allocations are specified as percentages of the total discretionary domestic budget to
allow Government to adjust the absolute expenditures depending on fluctuations in revenues and
domestic expenditures during budget implementation in 1999.
In addition, allocations to seven specific social sector programmes are specified and will be
monitored during 1999. These are: -
Programme                             Budget Code
1. The Social Recovery Programme                 37/1/5/2/027
2. The National Social Safety Net Committee           44/1/3/1/002
3. Water and Sanitation O&M grants to councils   29/6/3/1/001
4. Market Rehabilitation and Maintenance         29/6/3/1/004
5. Poverty Alleviation                           45/1/3/1/005
6. The Public Welfare Assistance Scheme          45/2/3/1/022
7. The Drought Relief Fund                       2/1/3/1/003
Monitoring Social Sector Releases
Releases to these core social sectors and safety net programmes will be monitored using a sub-
programme of Budget Office's "Funding" programme.
The releases monitoring report will be produced monthly and will be available by the 1 5th of the
following month.



-57-                                              Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Kwacha          Percent
Total Expenditure on the basis of which share Is computed   . 1.033,000,000,000    100.00%
Total Expenditure for the year                                 2,120,187,335,280   205.25%
Less
Foreign Project Financing (inc. foreign financed RDCs and Pes)   558.187,335,280  54.04%
Domestic Debt (inc. surplus of K 107 bn)               177,000,000,000     17.13%
Foreign Debt Service                                   102,000,000,000      9.87%
Wage Adjustment                                         75,000,000.000      7.26%
Contingency Reserve                                    147,000,000,000     14.23%
Compensations and Awards                                 5,000,000,000      0.48%
1998 Arrears                                            23,000,000,000      2.23%
Sub-total                                             1,087,187,335,280   105.25%
Sectoral Expenditures                                           372,844,124,442     36.09%
Health                                                          140,839,014,293     13.63%
Recurrent and Capital expenditure of the MoH (46)               136,868,996,774     13.25%
o/w PEs                              33,714,968,938.00
Defence Medical Services (77105)                                  3,970,017,519      0.38%
o0w PEs
Less: Foreign capex (46)                                          -         0.00%
Education and Training                                          193,247,024,788     18.71%
Recurrent and Capital expenditure of the MoE (80)               235,049,404,299     22.75%
o/w PEs                             100,303,290,248.00
Recurrent and Capital expenditure of the MSTVT (65)              32.052,407,147      3.10%
olw PEs                               3,929,628.381.00
Less: Foreign capex (80)                                61,667,800,000      5.97%
Foreign capex (65)                                 12.186,986,658      1.18%
Social Safety Net                                                12,493,815,100      1.21%
Grants and capex (45)                                             9.323,974,338      0.90%
olw Poverty Alleviation (4511/311/005)                            1,050,434,000
PWAS (4512/3/11022)                                            2,802,614,000
Provincial Community Development (9-/40)                          1,468,037,892      0.14%
o/w PEs                               1.214,809.693.00
Provincial Social Welfare (9-/24)                                  471,063,353       0.05%
olw PEs                                 318,719,022.00
Provincial Cultural Services (91/25)                               150,739,517       0.01%
olw PEs                                  70,770.476.00
Social Action Programme (371115/2/026)                                     -         0.00%
Social Recovery Project (37/1/512/027)                           16,798,000,000      1.63%
National Social Safety Net Committee (44/113/1/002)                200,000,000       0.02%
Less: Foreign capex (45)                                          -         0.00%
Foreign capex (37/1/5/2/027)                       15,918,000,000      1.54%
Foreign capex (45/215/21012)                                 -         0.00%
Foreign capex (37/1/5/2/030)                                 -         0.00%
Water and Sanitation                                             21,264,270,261      2.06%
M oLG H                                                          12,014,000,000      1.16%
Loans & Investments (20) net of non water projects               39,400,000,000      3.81%
Less: Foreign capex (20) net of non water projects      32,386,000,000      3.14%
Water and Sanitation O&M grants to councils (29/6/3/1/001)        4,000,000,000      0.39%
Market Rehabilitation and Mainrenance (29/6/3/1/004)              1,000,000,000      0.10%
M EWD                                                             9,250,270,261      0.90%
Recurrent & Capex of the Dept. of Water Affairs (13/3)           29,254,681,937      2.83%
otw PEs                                 419,301,278.00
Provincial Water Affairs (9/19)                                   1,642,324,333      0.16%
o0w PEs                                 911,701,313.00
Less: Foreign capex (13/3)                              21.646,738.009      2.10%
urougnt KelT                                                      b,UUU,UUUUUU       U.457
Drought Relief Fund (2/1/3/1/003)                                 5.000,000,000      0.48%
140,U83,189,349.00 PE eenment                  13.64%



