Report No. PID6766
Project Name                     Zambia-Public Sector Reform and Export...
Promotion Credit
Project ID                       ZMPA35641
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Telex: (965)-42221
Fax: 250586
Date of this PID                 August 25, 1997
Project Appraisal Date           September 22, 1997
Project Board Date               December 11,1997
Background
Following the resumption of IDA assistance in 1991, there have
been six adjustment operations in support of the Government's economic reform
program. These ongoing reforms have transformed many aspects of the Zambian
economy and helped establish a firmer foundation for the resumption of
sustained growth. Major steps have been taken towards restoring macroeconomic
stability, liberalizing external trade, deregulating domestic markets, and
promoting private sector activity. Specifically, the government's fiscal
deficit has been reduced; the exchange rate and interest rates are now market
determined; quantitative restrictions on trade have been eliminated and the
levels and dispersion of tariffs has been reduced; price controls and
restrictions on private-sector involvement have been revoked; and, an
ambitious and time-bound program to privatize and/or commercialize the
operations of the parastatal sector has already made considerable progress.
Despite this progress, growth has been slow to resume. GDP has
barely grown since 1990, and consequently per capita GDP has fallen by about a
sixth. While droughts in three of the past six years contributed to this
stagnation, the phasing and implementation of reforms in some policy areas
have slowed recovery. With the reforms supported by the last adjustment loan,
some of these issues, especially in the area of trade policy, have been
addressed. However, gaps remain in three policy areas. On public sector
reform, little has been done to reduce overstaffing, retain skills,
restructure ministries and decentralize operations. In expanding exports and
investment, obstacles still remain in terms of the anti-export bias due to
tariffs on imported inputs, difficulties in acquiring and using land, and the
ineffectiveness of promotional mechanisms. And, In delivering public services
to the poor, their coordination and integration into an overall poverty
reduction strategy remains problematic. In addition, there are pressing
financial needs arising from needed personnel reductions in the mining sector
that will facilitate the urgently needed privatization of that sector.
Objectives
This Credit would support the Government's ongoing reform program
in five areas, which are related to the goals of the Bank's assistance program



in Zambia, as specified in the most recent Country Assistance Strategy.
Specifically, the Credit aims at promoting sustained and broad-based growth
by: (i) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (ii) promoting private sector
activity by reducing the biases against exports and investment; (iii)
improving public sector management by restructuring the civil service and
enhancing the transparency of public procurement; (iv) facilitating
privatization in the mining sector by assisting with the financial costs of
the redundancy program; and, (v) targeting public assistance and services more
effectively to the poor.
Description
This Credit would build upon the reforms supported under the
previous adjustment operations -- the Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
II. Besides the emphasis on maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework
through continued monetary and fiscal restraint, it would support the
Government's reforms in four broad areas: (i) Public sector management. This
would include steps to: begin the process of restructuring ministries and
reforming salary and staffing structures; initiate implementation of a
decentralization strategy; and promote greater transparency and accountability
in financial management. (ii) Export and investment promotion. To accelerate
the supply response, these measures would: compensate for the residual anti-
export bias by improving the access of exporters to imported inputs at world
prices; reduce the barriers faced by private investors in acquiring and using
land; and, improve the institututional basis for investment and export
promotion. (iii) Facilitating mining privatization. To ease the transition to
private sector ownership of the mining sector, the Government will provide
financing needed to pay for the separation costs of the vast bulk of personnel
that will remain behind after the productive units have been sold. (iv)
Targeting of public services. To ensure that social services and public
assistance are delivered to the poor more efficiently and cost effectively,
these reforms would: better coordinate such programs; maintain their budget
allocations; and, improve delivery mechanisms so that they are better
targeted.
Environmental Aspects
The recommended environmental assessment category is C. The
proposed operation would not have any direct environmental impacts.
Implementation
The Credit would be disbursed through the Bank of Zambia in two
tranches. The first, of US$85 million, would include US$40 million designed
to facilitate the mining labor reduction program and US$45 million in balance
of payments support. The remaining tranche (US$45 million) would be available
when specific conditions relating to the reform agenda are achieved. While
the Ministry of Finance and Planning would be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the reforms supported under the operation, the specific
measures would be formulated and implemented in consultation with the Bank of
Zambia, the Cabinet Office, and the Ministries of Legal Affairs; Mines and
Minerals Development; Commerce, Trade and Industry; Health, Education, and
Community Development and Socal Services.
- 2-



Financing
The amount of this proposed IDA Credit would be $130 million. As
a balance of payment operation, it would finance 100t of the foreign exchange
costs of eligible imports.
Benefits and Risks
This Credit would help meet part of Zambia's balance of payment
needs for 1998. In addition, the Bank would play a key role in mobilizing
additional resources from the other bilateral and multilateral donors through
the CG process. The reforms that would be supported under the Credit would
also be central to completing the ongoing transformation of the Zambian
economy and in stimulating a sustained private sector investment and export
response.
The main risks faced by this operation are: (i) the public sector
reform effort could falter due to lack of political will and opposition from
various interest groups; and (ii) macroeconomic conditions could deteriorate.
The first risk is reduced by the high-level commitment to improving public
sector management and by designing this component of the operation in close
consultation with officials of various government agencies. The risk of
macroeconomic stability is mitigated by the Government's recent track record
in maintaining fiscal stringency even in the face of adverse domestic and
external conditions.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 21, 1998.
- 3 -



