Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H559-ST 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Social Sector Support Project) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 22, 2010  
 
Page  2
-2- 
 
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER 559-ST 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 22, 2010, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 
SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE
 
(the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) for the purpose of providing 
additional financing for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the 
Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
1.03. 
The Original Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the Appendix to 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to one 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR1,400,000) 
(“Financing”) to assist in financing  the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollar. 
 
Page  4
-2- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project and the 
Program.   To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.     
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that any 
event listed in Section 5.01 of the Original Agreement occurs. 
4.02. 
The additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that any 
of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of the Original 
Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period of sixty (60) days after notice of 
the event has been given by the Association to the Recipient.  
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Planning and Finance, or any 
successor thereto.  
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Largo das Alfandegas 
 
Caixa Postal 168 
 
São
Tomé 
 
República Democrática de São Tomé e Príncipe 
 
Facsimile:  
 
E-mail 
address: 
 239-2222182 
  MPFC@CSTOME.NET 
 
Page  5
-3- 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written.
 
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE 
 
By 
/s/ Ovídio Manuel Pequeno 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
/s/ Mary Barton Dock 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-4- 
 
SCHEDULE I 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are those of the Original Project as stated in 
Schedule 2 to the Original Agreement.  
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional 
subcomponents in Parts B and C of the Original Project:  
Part B
:
Delivery of Basic Health Services
1(c) Construction of approximately four (4) residences
 for MOH’s health 
personnel to improve the availability and quality of health services in the 
Recipient’s territory.    
Part C
:
Cross-Sector Social Issues HIV/AIDS and Malaria
1
(c):  
(i) 
Capacity development of the Recipient’s health training school, through 
the provision of Training and technical assistance; and  
(ii) 
Training of MOH’s health personnel, including nurses, to enhance their 
administrative and technical capacities.        
Page  7
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements
 
Sections 3.01, and 3.05 (Execution of the Project) of the Original Agreement; 
and Schedule 4 (Implementation Program), to the Original Agreement, as 
amended by paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement, are 
hereby incorporated by reference in this Part A.1 and shall apply 
mutatis 
mutandis
,
to this Agreement, and the Recipient undertakes to comply with the 
provisions thereof to the same extent as if such provisions had been set out in full 
in this Agreement.      
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Original Project and the Project are carried 
out in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the PIM.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the Association not later than one month after the end of the period covered by 
such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management system is maintained in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.   
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  8
-6- 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding
.
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding 
 
(b) Shopping
 
(c) Direct 
Contracting 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-Based Selection.
 
Page  9
-7- 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-Based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
Least Cost Selection 
(b)   
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  
Single Source Selection 
(d)  
Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Page  10
-8- 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR)
 
Percentage of the 
Expenditures to be 
Financed(inclusive of 
taxes)
 
Goods, works, Training,   
consultants’ services, and 
Operating Costs for the 
Project  
1,400,000 100% 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
1,400,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
Not later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
updated the accounting software for the Project, in a form and substance 
acceptable to the Association.    
2. 
Not later there (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
updated the FAPM and the PIM, all in a form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
Not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have 
hired the external auditors for the Project, with qualifications and experience, and 
pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.    
 
Page  11
-9- 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in paragraph A.2 of Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
3. 
“CDI Subproject” means a community driven development project under  
Parts A.2, B.2, and C.2 of the Original Project and further described under 
Section V of Schedule 4 to the Original Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“FAPM” means the Financial and Administration Procedural Manual that sets 
out the financial management arrangements, organization structure (including 
internal audit functions), staffing, standard accounting forms, books, and ledgers 
for the implementation of activities under the Project and as referred to in  
Section I, paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Original Agreement. 
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section III of this 
Appendix.   
6. 
“HIV/AIDS” means human immune deficiency virus; 
7. 
“MOH” means the Ministry of Health of the Recipient or any successor thereto. 
8. “Operating 
Costs
”
means reasonable recurrent Project expenditures, based on an 
annual budget previously approved by the Association, that would not have been 
incurred by the Recipient absent the Project, including: (i) office equipment and 
supplies; (ii) office utilities; (iii) office rental expenses; (iv) Project’s vehicles 
maintenance costs, fuel and spare parts; (v) travel expenses and 
per-diem
 for 
official Project staff (excluding salaries of Recipient’s government staff); and (vi) 
operation and maintenance of office equipment, financed with proceeds of the 
Financing , all needed for the supervision of the Project.  
9. 
“Original Agreement” means the development financing agreement for a Social 
Sector Support Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated  
Page  12
-10- 
 
June 24, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit Number 3902- 
STP and Grant Number H088- STP). 
10. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original 
Agreement. 
11. 
“PIM” means the Project Implementation Manual referred to in 
 
Section 1, paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to the Original Agreement, adopted by the 
Recipient, setting forth, all procedures and arrangements governing the 
implementation of the Project, such as procurement and disbursement 
procedures, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term shall 
include any schedules, tables and annexes to the PIM, as well as the Project 
Performance Indicators. 
12. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
13. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 31, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
14. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s national strategies for education, health, 
malaria and HIV/AIDS, describing a program designed to improve the delivery 
of basic health and education services in the country as set forth in the letter 
dated February 18, 2010, from the Recipient to the Association. 
15. 
“Training” means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual budget previously 
approved by the Association (other than those for consultants’ services), incurred 
by the Recipient, to finance transportation costs and 
per diem
 of trainers and 
trainees, workshops, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training 
equipment and material needed for the implementation and supervision of the 
Project. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the Original Agreement
1. 
Section 2.03 of the Original Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
 
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date.” 
 
Page  13
-11- 
 
2. 
Section 3.04 of the Original Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 4.04, 4.05, 4.06, and 4.07 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, land acquisition, use of goods, works, services, maintenance of facilities, 
plans, documents, and records) shall be carried out by AFAP.” 
 
3. 
Sub-Paragraph (c) of paragraph 13 of Section V of Schedule 4 to the Original 
Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:    
 
“(c) 
The Borrower’s right to: 
(i) 
Inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, and plants 
included in the Sub-Project, the operations thereof and any 
relevant records and documents; 
(ii) 
Obtain all information as the Borrower or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of the Beneficiary; and 
(iii) 
Suspend or terminate the right of any Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform 
any of its obligations under the Subproject Agreement. 
 
(iv) 
Protect its interests and those of the Association, including the 
right to: (i) suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the Sub-Grant , or obtain a refund of all or 
any part of the amount of the Sub-Grant then withdrawn, upon 
the Beneficiary’s failure to perform any of its obligations under 
the Sub-Project Agreement; and (ii) require each Beneficiary to:  
(A) carry out its Sub-Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, 
managerial, environmental and social standards and practices 
satisfactory to the Association, including in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Borrower; (B) provide, 
promptly as needed, the resources required for the purpose; (C) 
procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
Sub-Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; 
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the progress of the Sub-Project and the 
achievement of its objectives; (E): (1) maintain a financial 
Page  14
-12- 
 
management system and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Sub-
Project; and (2) at the Association’s or the Borrower’s 
request, have such financial statements audited by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, and promptly furnish the statements as so audited to 
the Borrower and the Association; (F) enable the Borrower and 
the Association to inspect the Sub-Project, its operation and any 
relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish to 
the Borrower and the Association all such information as the 
Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing.” 
Section III.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
Page  15
-13- 
 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”
 
