                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                         Report No: 52100-ST




                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                            ON A

                             PROPOSED ADDITIONAL GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.4 MILLION
                              (US$2.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

               INCLUDING SDR 0.7 MILLION IN PILOT CRW RESOURCES

                                           TO THE

                DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE

                                          FOR THE

                           SOCIAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT

                                       March 25, 2010




Human Development
Education Sector Unit
Central Africa 1 (AFCC1)
Africa Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2010)
                             Currency Unit: Dobras
                             US$1 = STD 17632.51
                             SDR 1 = US$1.53258
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1 ­ December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AF        Additional Financing
AFAP      Agência Fiduciária e Administrativa do Projecto (Project Fiduciary and
          Administrative Agency)
AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
AWP       Annual Work Plan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBO       Community-Based Organizations
CDI       Community-Driven Initiatives
CRW       Crisis Response Window
DA        Designated Account
DAF       Departamento de Administração e Finanças (Administrative and Financial Unit)
DFA       Development Financing Agreement
EFA-FTI   Education for All-Fast Track Initiative
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
FONG      Federation of Non-Governmental Organizations
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GER       Gross Enrollment Rate
HIV       Human Immune Deficiency Virus
IDA       International Development Association
IFR       Interim Financial Reports
ISDS      Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
KPI       Key Performance Indicators
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG       Millennium Development Goals
MICS      Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey
MoH       Ministry of Health
MWMP      Medical and Waste Management Plan
NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCMC      Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee
PCU       Project Coordination Unit

                                       ii
PDO    Project Development Objective
PER    Public Expenditure Review
PRSC   Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
RPF    Resettlement Policy Framework
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SIL    Specific Investment Loan
SSSP   Social Sector Support Project
STP    São Tomé and Príncipe
UNDP   United Nations Development Agency




                    Vice President:         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                  Country Director:         Mary Barton-Dock
                   Sector Director:         Yaw Ansu
                   Sector Manager:          Christopher J. Thomas
                 Task Team Leader:          Geraldo João Martins




                                      iii
                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE

                                     SOCIAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
                                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                                                  TABLE OF CONTENTS


I.        INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................. 1 

II.       BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING ................ 2 

III.      PROPOSED CHANGES .................................................................................................. 5 

IV.  CONSISTENCY WITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) AND
THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPER (PRSP) ............................................... 6 

V.        APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES............................................................ 6 

VI.       EXPECTED OUTCOMES .............................................................................................. 9 

VII.      BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................................................................. 9 

VIII.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION READINESS ......................................................... 10 

IX.  FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL
FINANCING ............................................................................................................................... 10 

List of Annexes:
Annex 1: Revised Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators ............................................... 12 
Annex 2: Project Costs.................................................................................................................. 18 
Annex 3: Risk Identification Worksheet....................................................................................... 19 
Annex 4: Procurement Arrangements for the Additional Financing ............................................ 21 
Annex 5: Financial Management Arrangements and Flow of Funds ........................................... 25 

List of Tables:
Table 1: São Tomé and Príncipe ­ Summary of Key Social Indicators, 2004-2009 ...................... 2 
Table 2: Project Costs by Component .......................................................................................... 18 
Table 3: Project Costs of Original Activities and Additional Activities ...................................... 18 




                                                                    iv
                DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE

                SOCIAL SECTOR SUPPORT (ADDITIONAL FINANCING)

                                     PROJECT PAPER

                                         AFRICA

                                          AFTED
                            Basic Information (Original Project)
Project ID: P075979                            Project Name: Social Sector Support Project
Team Leader: Geraldo Joao Martins              Expected Closing Date: June 30, 2010
Environmental category: B                      Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan
Partial Assessment                              Education (47); Health (26%); Other social
                                               services (14%); Central government
                                               administration (13%)
                                               Themes: Education for all (67%); Population
                                               and reproductive health (33%)
                          Basic Information (Additional Financing)
Date: March 25, 2010                           Team Leader: Geraldo Joao Martins
Democratic Republic of São Tomé and            Sectors: Health (76%); Other social services
Príncipe                                       (14%); Central government administration
Social Sector Support Project Additional       (10%)
Financing
Project ID: P113113
Country Director: Mary A. Barton-Dock
Sector Manager: Christopher J. Thomas

                                              Environmental category: B Partial Assessment
                                              Additional Financing Type: Scale Up
                                  Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [X] Grant [ ] Guarantee [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 2.10
Proposed terms:
                                 Financing Plan (US$m)
                 Source                      Local            Foreign            Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                              0.00              0.00             0.00
IDA Grant                                        0.3              0.7               1.0
CRW                                              0.3              0.8               1.1
Total:                                           0.6              1.5               2.1

Borrower:
Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe
São Tomé and Príncipe


                                               v
Responsible Agency:
Agência Fiduciária e Administrativa do Projecto
Largo das Alfandegas
Edifício da Planificação Económica, 1E
São Tomé and Príncipe
 CP 1029
Tel: /Fax: (239) 224-665
afap2@yahoo.com.br
Ministry of Health
São Tomé and Príncipe

                           Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY              2010     2011
Annual           1.00     1.10
Cumulative       1.00     2.10
Project implementation period: Start: June 1, 2010 End: December 30, 2011
Expected effectiveness date: May 20, 2010
Expected closing date: December 31, 2011
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities                                         [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                          [ ]Yes [ ] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
                                                                                     [ ]Yes [X] No
Ref. Section Project Risks and Mitigating Measures
Project development objective Ref. Section Bank Response
The project development objective, which remains unchanged, is to contribute to improving the
delivery of basic health and education services with a focus on greater and equitable access,
better quality, and improved local governance of services. The Additional Financing includes
project restructuring as new activities and new indicators have been added, few indicators
dropped, and the targets revised. The Key Performance Indicators (KPI) have been revised to
include the health and education core indicators and the contraceptive prevalence rate (to better
address the issue of the country's high fertility rate) and to drop some indicators of limited
relevance (percentage of disbursement of sub-grants for CDI projects; line ministries implement
100 percent of their agreed work plan agreement; percentage of health facilities rehabilitated,
extended or constructed according to plan; percentage of training material available in the health
school according to plan; and percentage of health facilities with new treatment (amodiaquin and
artusanate).
Project description Ref. Section Bank Response
The proposed Additional Financing (AF) is sought to provide additional resources to scale up the
original project activities and to implement two additional activities under component B,
Delivery of Basic Health Services, and component C, Cross-Sector Issues (Malaria and
HIV/AIDS). The original activities to be scaled up include: (i) rehabilitation of health facilities;
and (ii) institutional support to the Ministry of Health (MoH). The proposed additional activities
include the (i) construction of residences for health staff in remote areas in order to improve the
availability of health services in those areas; and (ii) capacity development of the Health
Training School, and training of health personnel, including nurses, in order to increase the
availability and quality of human resources in the sector.

                                                 vi
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. Section Appraisal of Project Activities
No new safeguard policies are triggered.




                                               vii
I.     INTRODUCTION 

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
grant in an amount of SDR1.4 (US$2.1 million equivalent) to the Democratic Republic of São
Tomé and Príncipe for the Social Sector Support Project (SSSP) (P075979, Credit 3902-STP;
Grant H088-STP). The proposed Additional Financing (AF) is sought to provide additional
resources to scale up the original project activities and to implement two additional activities
under component B, Delivery of Basic Health Services, and component C, Cross-Sector Issues
(Malaria and HIV/AIDS). The Additional Financing will cover only the health and the cross-
sector HIV/AIDS and malaria components of the SSSP, as the Government's education program
has recently benefited from a US$3.6 million Catalytic Fund Grant. The original activities to be
scaled up include: (i) rehabilitation of health facilities; and (ii) institutional support to the
Ministry of Health (MoH). The proposed additional activities include: (i) construction of
residences for health staff in remote areas in order to improve the availability of health services;
and (ii) capacity development of the Health Training School, and training of health personnel,
including nurses, in order to increase the availability and quality of human resources in the
sector. All activities to be financed under the Additional Financing are part of the AWP under
the original project, which was agreed upon between the Government and the Bank in October
2009.

2.       Approximately 50 percent of the additional resources will be provided through the
Crisis Response Window (CRW) as part of the Bank's strategy to help the country mitigate
the crippling effects of the financial and food crisis. At present, the government of São Tomé
and Príncipe is unable to provide sufficient funding for the proposed health-related activities.
Other donors, particularly Taiwan, China and Portugal, are supporting the health sector, but their
contributions are unlikely to be increased in the near future. The Additional Financing will help
protect core investment in the sector, as they represent about 40 percent of the projected public
investments in the health sector in 2010, and therefore will help consolidate and expand the gains
in order to fully meet the Project's development objectives. It is expected that 50 percent of the
available funds will be used for capacity development and interventions likely to ensure
sustainability of results, including human resources training and deployment, monitoring and
evaluation, and financial management of the health system. The remaining funds will be used to
complete infrastructure works and the equipment of health facilities.

3.       The original development objective and the project implementation modalities remain
unchanged. The proposed activities to be supported by the AF are intended to consolidate the
important, but still fragile, gains obtained so far by the well performing project. Expected
outcomes include the further improvement of maternal and child health, and the sustainability of
malaria and HIV/AIDS interventions. The AF includes project restructuring. The Key
Performance Indicators (KPI) were revised to include the health and education core indicators as
well as the contraceptive prevalence rate (to better address the issue of the country's high fertility
rate). Some indicators have also been dropped because they are not relevant. Indicator targets
have been updated to reflect the expected progress over the next two years (see Annex 1).
II.          BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING 

4.      Country Context: São Tomé and Príncipe is Africa's smallest economy and one of the
poorest countries in the world. The per capita income of US$424 places the country below the
average for Sub-Saharan Africa. While economic performance improved and the real GDP
growth increased to an average 5 percent over the period 2001-2007 from 2.0 percent in 1994-
2000, approximately 54 percent of its population of 166,000 is poor and 15 percent live in
extreme poverty. The country ranks 131 out of 182 countries in the 2009 UNDP Human
Development Index. Life expectancy is 67 years and adult literacy rate is estimated at 83 percent.

5.       Steady progress in education and health has been achieved in recent years. Structural
reforms aimed at reaching universal primary completion by 2015 are underway. Survey data
shows considerable success in the area of infant mortality which is, at 38 per 1,000 live births,
well below the Sub-Saharan average. There has also been huge progress in malaria control that
has helped reduce the under-five mortality rate from 96 per 1,000 live births in 2004 to 63 in
2009. Maternal mortality has also dropped significantly, reaching 73 per 100,000 live births in
2009, compared to 143 in 2005. This is largely the result of a major increase in the proportion of
births attended by skilled professionals, from 70 percent in 2003 to 86 percent in 2009.

         Table 1: São Tomé and Príncipe ­ Summary of Key Social Indicators, 2004-2009

Indicators                                               2004   2005   2007    2009
Education

Net Enrollment Rate (%)                                  81.8   83.1   84.1
Survival rate from 1 to 6 grade (%)                      47.0          60.3    66.7
Repetition Rate, Primary (%)                             27.0   24.9   25.6    16.4

Health

Life Expectancy at birth, years                          63     65      65     67
Immunization, DTP (% children 0-12 months)               95.2   96.8    97.8   98.4
Immunization, measles (% children 0-12 months)           84.0   88.3    85.8   93.0
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 47.8   45.9    43.9   38
Under 5 mortality rate (per 1,000)                       96              97     63
Maternal mortality (per 100,000 live births)             296     143     85    73
Source: Ministry of Health; Ministry of Education.



6.       Rationale for Additional Financing: At present, the government of São Tomé and
Príncipe is unable to provide sufficient funding for the proposed health-related activities. The
country was hit hard by the increase in international food and fuel prices in 2008 and has been
affected in 2009 by the global economic downturn through lower than expected tourism receipts
(exports declined by 11percent) and donor assistance, lower remittances (25 percent lower than
expected), and postponement of foreign direct investment (expected to fall 50 percent from
projections). As a consequence, fiscal revenues decreased 30 percent in the first semester of
2009, GDP growth projections for 2009 have been revised downward from 6 percent to 4
percent, and per capita incomes have declined in 2009.

7.       The Additional Financing is being proposed to ensure greater sustainability of project
outcomes and to capitalize on the momentum achieved under the SSSP to further improve health
services. The proposed activities are complementary interventions to scale up the project's

                                                     2
impact, results and development effectiveness in the health sector. The SSSP has been
instrumental in providing better access to health services, reducing the incidence of malaria,
increasing child vaccination coverage, and helping to reduce the incidence of HIV/AIDS, which
are important achievements. But maintaining further progress will depend on the continuation of
key reforms in the health sector. Sustainability of ongoing interventions is a current priority
which may be threatened by inadequate financing and/or weak institutional capacity in the
Ministry of Health.

8.       Some of the critical institutional development interventions have already been launched
under the project and need to be consolidated. For example, the Health Information System was
introduced and most of the preparatory work to install the computerized data system at the
central and district levels has been done, but needs to be finalized. Two important studies have
been completed recently ­ a Public Expenditure Review (PER) and a study on institutional and
organizational reform of the health sector. A study of health financing is also about to be
launched. Follow-up will be necessary to draw lessons from these studies in order to implement
recommendations that would improve health financing and strengthen the institutional capacity
of the health sector.

9.         Since the outcomes of the current project are satisfactory, and the implementation
arrangements are in place, the Additional Financing is an effective and efficient way to quickly
channel resources to the sector while using well-established project systems. In the medium-
term, it is expected that the reduction of the negative impact of the financial and fuel crisis on the
economy, and the expected improvement of the country macro-economic outlook will leverage
domestic resources to ensure sustainability of the proposed interventions.

10.     São Tomé and Príncipe is fully committed to the proposed Additional Financing and
considers it the best available mechanism to maximize the project development impact. It has
prepared an Action Plan acceptable to the Bank to complete the project. There are no unresolved
issues with audit and social safeguards, which are rated satisfactory, and no outstanding audits on
the Credit or the Grant. Furthermore, neither the Credit/Grant nor the country is subject to a
suspension of disbursements. Furthermore, for the processing of this proposed Additional
Financing, the Task Team has complied with the relevant provisions embedded in Operational
Policy and Bank Procedure 13.20 (on Additional Financing for Investment Lending) and the
Guidelines for the Implementation Arrangements for the Association's Crisis Response Window,
approved on December 10, 2009.

11.      Project Background: The Development Financing Agreement for the provision of a
Credit of SDR 3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent), and of a Grant of SDR 1.1 million (US$1.5
million equivalent), was signed on June 24, 2004. The Social Sector Support Project became
effective on December 18, 2004, and the original closing date was June 30, 2009, which was
extended to June 30, 2010. It is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). As of December 31, 2009
cumulative disbursements amounted to SDR 3.3 million (94 percent disbursed) for the Credit and
SDR 1.09 million (99 percent disbursed for the Grant).

12.      The project's development objective, which remains unchanged, is to contribute to
improving the delivery of basic health and education services with a focus on greater and
equitable access, better quality, and improved local governance of services. The original project
has four components:
                                                  3
13.      Component A: Delivery of Basic Education Services through: the (i) construction and
rehabilitation of primary schools; (ii) improvement of the quality of basic education services,
including pre-service and in-service teacher training, curriculum reform, and provision of
textbooks and pedagogical material; and (iii) provision of sub-grants for Community-Driven
Initiatives (CDI) subprojects in basic education.

14.      Component B: Delivery of Basic Health Services through the: (i) improvement of
access and equity to basic health services including establishment of clinical maternity services,
construction, extension and rehabilitation of health centers; (ii) improvement of the quality of
basic health services, including capacity building for sector management, training of health
personnel, revision of training curricula, and establishment of a basic health information system;
and (iii) provision of sub-grants for Community-Driven Initiatives (CDI) subprojects in basic
health.

15.      Component C: Cross Sector Issues: HIV/AIDS and Malaria. This component aims to
(i) strengthen the performance of the Borrower's National HIV/AIDS and malaria programs; and
(ii) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Borrower's Centro Nacional de Endemias
(National Center for Endemic Diseases) to better coordinate the national multi-sector response to
malaria.

16.     Component D: Program Management and Implementation Support This
component (i) supports the Agência Fiduciária e Administrativa do Projecto (Project Fiduciary
and Administrative Agency, AFAP) in order to meet the Borrower's administrative and fiduciary
responsibilities and the Project Coordination and Monitoring Committee (PCMC) for the overall
supervision of project implementation; and (ii) assists the Federation of Non-Governmental
Organizations (FONG) in order to meet the Borrower's fiduciary responsibilities with respect to
the implementation and monitoring of CDI Subprojects.

17.     Project implementation is and will remain the responsibility of the MoH. The AFAP will
continue to play a key role in ensuring satisfactory fiduciary support to project implementation.
An Annual Work Plan (AWP) is agreed upon between the government and the Bank each
calendar year. The FONG participates in project implementation by ensuring the management
and coordination of CDIs implemented by Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and
Community Based Organizations (CBO) in conjunction with beneficiary communities. Project
oversight is ensured by the PCMC, which is comprised of the Minister of Finance (chair), the
Minister of Health and the Minister of Education. The involvement of both government and non-
governmental actors has proven an effective tool to foster transparency and cooperation.

18.      Project Performance. The project has been consistently rated satisfactory since
effectiveness. The implementation of the project, including compliance with loan covenants, has
also been rated satisfactory. The last assessment of project performance took place in October
2009. Overall, key performance indicators continue to show progress, and a few indicators have
exceeded the end of program target level. The education component of the project has
successfully been completed and the sector is now supported by an Education for All-Fast Track
Initiative (EFA/FTI) Catalytic Fund Grant. The Grant will further support strategic interventions
in terms of access and quality of primary education in order to consolidate recent gains in the
sector. Examples of those gains include the Gross Enrollment Rate (GER), estimated at 121
                                                4
percent, and the completion rate in primary education at 64 percent. The survival rate from grade
1 to 6 rose to 66.7 percent in 2009, from 47 percent in 2003, and the transition rate from grade 4
to grade 5 increased to 84.2 percent from 60 percent in the same period. The percentage of
schools working on a triple shift regimen has dropped to 8 from 27 in 2003, and the ratio of one
textbook per student has been achieved.

19.      The health sector is also demonstrating encouraging results, particularly in the areas of
maternal health and child health care. Most of the original project KPIs have been reached or
surpassed. The proportion of births attended by skilled professionals increased to 86 percent in
2009 from 70 percent in 2003 (surpassing the project target of 85 percent) as a result of
improvements in service delivery, particularly in rural areas. At the same time, the proportion of
pregnant women receiving antenatal care increased from 65 percent to 82.3 percent during the
same period. Progress was also registered in child health care. The immunization rate for
measles in 2009 is at 93.1 percent, and São Tomé and Príncipe has been a success story on the
malaria front: the incidence of the disease in children under five years old has decreased to
34/1,000 in 2009 from 1,273/1,000 in 2004, primarily as a result of the use of bed nets, and the
treatment of malaria cases with a combination of amodiaquine and artesunate. Mortality from
malaria has dropped to close to zero in 2009. The HIV prevalence among pregnant women has
dropped from 5.4 percent at the beginning of the project to an estimated 1.5 percent in 2009, but
some concerns still remain. For example, although a growing proportion of women are getting
correct knowledge of HIV/AIDS forms of transmission, this proportion (49 percent) is still below
the project target.

20.      Civil society organizations, through the FONG, are participating in project
implementation with satisfactory performance. In 2009, FONG implemented nearly 70 percent
of its planned activities (awareness campaigns among communities on the use of bed nets,
distribution of condoms, construction of latrines, etc.), and 12 subprojects have been approved
out of the 17 subproject proposals submitted during that same year. All 12 subprojects are under
implementation by various NGOs.


III.    PROPOSED CHANGES 

21.     The original Project Development Objective for the project remains unchanged. The
Additional Financing is not intended to support activities under component A (Delivery of Basic
Education Services). It will only focus on component B (Delivery of Basic Health Services), and
component C (Cross Sector Issues HIV/AIDS and Malaria). The construction of four residences
for health staff will be added to component B; and capacity development of the Health Training
School, as well as training of health personnel, including nurses, will be added to component C.
Activities to be financed under the Additional Financing are expected to be completed by June
30, 2011, and as a result, the Project closing date will be extended to December 31, 2011.

22.     Ongoing activities to be financed include the rehabilitation of health facilities and
capacity development of the MoH, including the completion of the implementation of the Health
Information System; the adoption by the government of a policy on health financing; and the
development of a new strategy on human resources management. The construction of residences
for health staff (doctors and nurses) in remote areas will help reduce the attrition rate among staff
and increase the availability of health services in these areas. The envisaged capacity

                                                 5
development of the Health training School is aimed at increasing its capacity to deliver high
quality training for the health personnel.

23.       Costs: The total cost of the proposed activities, based on current unit costs, is estimated
at US$2.1 million and will be fully supported by the proposed Additional Financing. The costs
are allocated as follows: (i) delivery of basic health services (US$1.56 million equivalent); and
(ii) cross-sector issues (US$0.54 equivalent). The incremental operating costs will be financed by
the remaining funds of the original project. In addition, part of the AFAP's operating costs will
be financed by the Education for All Project, whose fiduciary functions are also managed by
AFAP.


IV.  CONSISTENCY WITH THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) 
AND THE POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY PAPER (PRSP) 

24.     The SSSP and the Additional Financing are in line with the 2005 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) covering the period 2006-09. The CAS aims at supporting the country Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) agenda, which seeks to: (i) reduce poverty to less than 1/3 by
2015; (ii) provide the entire population with access to basic services by 2015; (iii) considerably
reduce the social and gender gap between districts as well as between rural and urban areas; and
(iv) promote and build institutional capacity and a policy of good governance. The CAS focuses
its support on two critical development issues: (i) governance capacity building, notably in
public finance management and petroleum management in order to build up the institutions
required to adequately manage petroleum once exploitation starts and to raise the efficiency of
the public sector; and (ii) social sectors to provide direct financial and technical assistance to
support on-going reforms in education and health. Both the base case and the high case scenarios
in the CAS included the possibility of an additional financing for the ongoing projects.

25.     The original project and the support from this Additional Financing will put the country
closer to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) since activities funded address
five out of the eight MDGs. It also supports the implementation of the PRSP and the national
social sector strategies. The project was a key element of the Bank's FY01-05 CAS as it
contributes to the CAS goal of broadening access to social services and improving their quality
and continues to be aligned with the current strategy. The project contributes to a re-definition of
the role of government because it involves NGOs and civil society in project implementation.


V.     APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES 
26.    The Bank completed the pre-appraisal of the additional financing on October 23, 2009,
which was upgraded to appraisal on March 9, 2010 after having met the necessary criteria. The
economic, financial, technical, fiduciary, environmental, and social aspects of the proposed
additional activities have been appraised. The Bank has confirmed that all institutional
arrangements and fiduciary controls are in place, and the client is ready and has adequate
capacity to implement the additional activities. Procurement would be carried out in accordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
May 2004, revised October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised October 2006. "Guidelines on Preventing and

                                                 6
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants", dated October 15, 2006 shall apply to the project. The implementation systems are
expected to continue to operate satisfactorily during the remainder of the project.

27.     Economic Analysis: The project interventions are economically sound and sustainable.
The economic soundness of the project design is ensured by: (i) basing the project concept on the
Country's PRSP and social sector strategies, as well as the Country Assistance Strategy; (ii)
selecting cost-effective options for the health components of the project that complement the
activities of other donors in the sector; (iii) including the implementation of key policy reform
measures aimed at fiscal sustainability, such as the health financing system and the human
resources management policy; and (iv) strengthening institutional capacity.

28.     A cost-benefit analysis of HIV/AIDS interventions shows that direct and indirect benefits
resulting respectively from the costs of the HIV/AIDS treatment saved and the HIV/AIDS deaths
averted are significant. The net present value of investing in HIV/AIDS is economically well
justified as shown by an internal rate of return of 23.25 percent by the end of the project.

29.     For the malaria interventions, direct benefits are expected to result from cost savings of
malaria treatment by averting malaria cases as a result of the intervention. The indirect monetary
benefits are expected to result from the malaria deaths averted as a result of the project
intervention. The cost-benefit analysis shows that the net present value of the project is expected
to be a positive gain of near US$1.0 million, with a gain that is more than double the amount of
the investment in this sub-component.

30.    The health interventions to be covered under the Additional Financing include mother
and child health (child immunization and provision of maternal services, HIV/AIDS and malaria
preventions), which are indispensable services for human development and the well-being of the
population at risk.

31.     Technical Analysis: The design of the on-going project is technically sound. The
Additional Financing will keep the same project design, focusing on health and cross-sector
issues. Increasing the availability and quality of basic health services is expected to have a
significant impact towards the achievement of the MDGs. The Additional Financing will address
the same issues but with more ambitious targets. The proposed additional activities were
prepared according to technical and economic studies, as well as lessons learned during the past
years, and regional and international norms and practices. They will be implemented within well-
recognized standards.

32.     Fiduciary Management: The Additional Financing will be executed through the same
fiduciary arrangements of the original project, which have proven effective, with AFAP as the
fiduciary agency for the project. A financial management system with standards acceptable to the
Bank is in place; a procurement specialist, a financial management specialist, and an accountant
are part of the project team; and Interim Financial Reports will continue to be submitted to IDA
on a quarterly basis.

33.      The Project Coordination Unit (AFAP) is in place and its Financial Management (FM)
staff is adequate. The PCU will use the existing FM system to manage and account for project
funds. The existing ring-fenced arrangements will be maintained and the FM performance of the
                                                7
initial project is satisfactory. The existing staff and information system as currently designed are
deemed adequate to handle the additional funds. The PCU annually prepares a work plan that is
agreed with the Bank prior to execution. The computerized accounting system used under the
original project was deemed satisfactory for the closing phase of the original project. It provides
the basic framework to generate accurate and timely financial reports. For the additional phase,
however, the system will be upgraded and carried-forward for the proposed Additional
Financing, as recommended by the last external audit report. This will allow the project to fully
take advantage of a more comprehensive reporting functionality.

34.     In addition, the controls described in the current manual of procedures will be revised and
strengthened to take into account the lessons learned over the past years. Under the
implementation of the original project objectives, the project performed well by submitting
timely and reliable quarterly consolidated Interim Financial Reports (IFR), and annual audited
financial statements were provided on time. As of December 31, 2009, there are no overdue IFR
or audit reports. The project plans to maintain the same reporting arrangements. As in the case of
the original project, the annual financial statements of the Additional Financing will be audited
by external auditors.

35.     Disbursement: Disbursement methods will remain the same and will continue to use a
transaction-based disbursement mechanism. Flow of funds will be made into a new segregated
Designated Account, which will be opened by the AFAP. AFAP will disburse from its
Designated Account a small sum in local currency to cover project operating costs. All project
accounts are subject to annual audits.

36.    Counterpart funding: There are no counterpart funds for the Additional Financing.

37.     Social Analysis: While the project targets the total population, its primary beneficiaries
are poor communities in both rural and urban areas, women of reproductive age, and children.
Progress in the provision of health care services over recent years was not enough to erase
inequitable access to a quality services. In particular, girls and women of reproductive age are
still vulnerable to risks associated with early sexual initiation and weak reproductive health
practice. Only 33 percent of women age 15-49 use some form of contraceptive. There are clearly
unmet needs of family planning, which partly explains the prevailing high fertility rate in the
country (at 5.1 in 2009).

38.     The successful intervention on malaria has had a dramatic impact on children's health.
Because prevalence rate of malaria in children under five years old has dramatically decreased
over the last five years, society as a whole is enjoying the benefits of this tremendous gain (less
costs for health centers and households; free time for mothers to engage in productive activities;
increased attendance in primary education). The achievement, while impressive, is still fragile.
The Additional Financing will contribute to the strengthening of the institutional capacity of the
Centro Nacional de Endemias (the National Center of Endemic Diseases), the department in
charge of the malaria program.

39.    Environmental Analysis: The original project was rated B for environmental safeguards.
The Africa Region Safeguard Specialists have decided to maintain the same rating for the
Additional Financing. The project will be implemented throughout São Tomé and Príncipe. The
planned activities include the construction of residences for health staff and the rehabilitation of
                                                 8
health centers. Although the project does not anticipate any activity that may require involuntary
resettlement, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) prepared under the original project has
been updated. The original Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), and the
Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) were also updated. These safeguard instruments
were cleared by the Bank's internal safeguards team and disclosed by the government on
December 11, 2009. The RPF was disclosed at the Bank's InfoShop on January 11, 2010; the
ESMF was disclosed on January 13, 2010; and the MWMP was disclosed on March 5, 2010.

40.     Analysis of the project activities led to the decision not to trigger OP/BP 4.04 and 4.11 at
this stage but to rely on the ESMF as an appropriate screening tool. In the case of
OP 4.04, it was agreed that the project will not encroach on any natural habitats and that the
ESMF screening process is sufficient to identify sensitive areas and help devise appropriate
mitigation measures to protect them. Regarding OP/BP 4.11, it was decided that if any cultural
artifacts are found, appropriate measures will be taken to safeguard them. A "Chance Find"
approach will be applied and appropriate measures taken if necessary in collaboration and
consultation with Beneficiary Communities (BC). Options to be considered are: i)
displace/relocate the artifacts or cultural burial sites with the agreement of the local community;
ii) avoid the area if possible; or iii) remove them. If none of the aforementioned options are
viable, relevant project activities will be stopped.


VI.    EXPECTED OUTCOMES 

41.    The health-related results framework for the original project has been revised to include
the health core indicators and the contraceptive prevalence rate (to capture the need to streamline
interventions in reproductive health care. The targets however have been updated, in view of the
expected impact of new interventions and policy reforms under the Additional Financing. The
Results Framework with the revised targets is presented in Annex 1. Indicators will be monitored
by the MoH with support from the Project M&E specialist.

42.      The proposed changes of targets reflect the need to consolidate the outcomes in a still
fragile context. This is, for example, particularly relevant for the malaria incidence for children
under five years old and HIV/AIDS prevalence among pregnant women. This is in line with the
explicit objective of the Additional Financing of consolidating the outcomes achieved so far and
enhancing the impact of current interventions.


VII.  BENEFITS AND RISKS 
43.     Benefits: The Additional Financing will continue to support the government health
strategy and will build on the results achieved under the original project. Specific benefits
include the following:

       Rehabilitation of health centers and construction of residences for health staff in remote
       areas of the country are likely to improve the availability and quality of health services in
       those areas.


                                                 9
         Capacity development of the Health Training School and training of health personnel,
         including nurses, will increase the availability of skilled human resources in the sector.

         Strengthening the institutional capacity of the health institutions at the central and local
         level for delivery of basic health services is likely to benefit primarily poor communities,
         as they are the most affected by the weak capacity of the system.

44.     Risks: The proposed Additional Financing poses limited anticipated risks, besides those
already identified for the ongoing project (see Annex 3) and for which mitigation measures have
been successfully adopted during the course of implementation. A new risk identified during pre-
appraisal of the Additional Financing is the high attrition rate among trained health personnel
(doctors, nurses, etc.), who are prone to emigrate to Portugal and Angola in search of better
opportunities. The government is now reflecting on a set of incentives to reduce the intensity of
this problem, and the Additional Financing will support the development of a human resources
strategy and plan, which seeks to bring solutions for more efficiency in the allocation,
deployment and retention of staff.


VIII.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION READINESS 

45.      The project implementation readiness has been assessed as follows:

         Results Framework Assessment: The results framework has been discussed and agreed
         upon with the government (Annex 1).

         Fiduciary Arrangement: The fiduciary system in place is functional and judged
         satisfactory for the additional financing. A procurement plan for 12 months of activities
         dated October 31, 2009 was submitted to IDA and found satisfactory.

         Staffing: Staff with adequate qualifications and skills are in place to fulfill their
         responsibilities for the Additional Financing, and AFAP is well staffed. A technical
         advisor in the MoH will continue to ensure technical coordination of project
         implementation between the Ministry's departments, including the malaria and
         HIV/AIDS programs.

         Disclosure Requirements: All disclosure arrangements have been met. The Project
         Information Document and the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet were disclosed at the
         Bank on March 11, 2010.


IX.  FINANCIAL  TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS  FOR  THE  ADDITIONAL 
FINANCING 
46.     The financial terms and conditions of the Additional Financing are: (a) an IDA Grant
with the Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (b) the closing
date of the additional financing is December 31, 2011.

                                                 10
47.     The only condition of effectiveness as required under Section 8.02 of the Association's
General Conditions for Credits and Grants, dated July 1, 2005, as amended through October 15,
2006, is the receipt by the Bank of a legal opinion from the São Tomean Attorney General
certifying that the Financing Agreement for this proposed Additional Financing has been duly
authorized or ratified and executed and delivered on behalf of São Tomé and Príncipe and is
legally binding upon São Tomé and Príncipe in accordance with its terms.




                                              11
                Annex 1: Revised Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators




               PDO                           Outcome Indicators                 Use of Outcome Information
Improve the delivery of basic health   Education                                Education
and education services with a focus    (i) Increased survival rate from         Determine the availability of
on greater and equitable access,       grades 1 to 6 from 47% to 65%            student places offered by schools or
better quality, and improved local                                              a network of schools offering six
governance of services.                (ii) Improved promotion rate from        grades of continuing education.
                                       grades 4 to 5 from 60% to 75%
                                                                                Determine Repetition rate.
                                       Health (per district):
                                       (i) Increase in the immunization rate    Determine the situation in
                                       for measles from 84% to 95%              underserved areas as regards school
                                                                                enrollment and presence of teachers,
                                       (ii) Increase in coverage of pregnant    and the use of multi-grade teaching
                                       women receiving antenatal care from      and access to 5th grade.
                                       90% (1st visit) to 95% (at least 4
                                       visits)                                  Health

                                       (iii) Increase in % of births attended   Determination of inequities in
                                       by a skilled birth attendant from        availability or use of health services
                                       70% to 90%                               amongst districts.

                                       (iv) Increase in contraceptive
                                       prevalence rate from 29.9% to 35%
                                                                                Assessment of the number of people
                                       (v) Direct project beneficiaries         with access to basic package of
                                       reaches 103,000, of which 60%            health services.
                                       female

                                       Cross-sector Issues                      Cross-cutting Issues
                                       (i) HIV prevalence among pregnant        Assessment of the effectiveness of
                                       women remains below 2%                   the overall national HIV/AIDS
                                                                                strategy, and possible adjustment of
                                       (ii) % of women who identify             World Bank support.
                                       correctly ways to prevent HIV
                                       infection increases from 10% to 55%      Assessment of the effectiveness of
                                                                                the overall national Malaria strategy,
                                       (iii) Incidence of malaria in children
                                                                                and possible adjustment of World
                                       <5 years old remains below 35 per
                                                                                Bank support.
                                       1,000

                                                                                Local governance of services
                                       Local governance of services
                                                                                Address constraints in disbursement
                                        (i) Successful implementation of
                                                                                of sub-grants and implementation of
                                       90% of CDI subprojects
                                                                                subprojects.




                                                        12
     Intermediate Results                Results Indicators for Each             Use of Results Monitoring
     One per Component                           Component
Component One:                          Component One:                         Component One:
Delivery of basic education
services

1.1 Better access and equity of basic   Sixty percent of schools offered       Number of network of schools, and
education                               continuous six grades education        reorganization of large schools.

                                        About 350 additional students access   Elimination of national exams at
                                        5th grade in underserved areas         grade 4.

                                        Additional classrooms built or         Monitor the construction of 10
                                        rehabilitated (number)                 additional classrooms and the IEC in
                                                                               underserved areas.

                                        Triple shift teaching eliminated
1.2 Better quality and efficiency of                                           Monitor the implementation of the
basic education                         Repetition rate (grades 1-6) reduced   sub-cycles approach and the
                                        from 27% to 15%                        elimination of repetition at first year
                                                                               and the limitation of repetition at
                                                                               15% at the second year of each sub-
                                                                               cycle.

                                        Additional qualified primary           About 600 teachers trained or
                                        teachers (number)                      retrained at EFOPE and or through
                                                                               the decentralized training approach.

                                                                               The majority of schools applied
                                        Effective learning time reached 4h30   double-shift teaching.
                                        per day
                                                                               Monitor the reprinting of textbooks
                                        One textbook per student in            and the distribution. Books will be
                                        principal subject matters              loaned free of charges.

                                        Textbooks purchased and distributed
                                        (number)

                                        Learning assessment
Component Two:                          Component Two:                         Component Two:

Delivery of basic health services       Health facilities constructed,         Adjustment of annual work plans.
2.1 Better access and equity to basic   renovated, and/or equipped (number)
health services.


2.2 Better quality of basic health      People with access to a basic
services.                               package of health, nutrition, or
                                        population services (number)

                                         Health personnel receiving training
                                        (number)


                                        Children immunized (number)

                                        Pregnant women receiving antenatal

                                                         13
                                         care during a visit to a health
                                         provider (number)


                                         Regular reporting by districts to
                                         Health information system,
                                         according to plan
Component Three:                         Component Three:                         Component Three:
Addressing Cross-sectoral Issues ­
HIV/AIDS and Malaria                     Condom availability at central level     Adjust supply to increasing demand.
3.1 HIV/AIDS                             at least 5/inhab/yr and increasing


3.2 Malaria                              Long-lasting insecticide-treated         Adjust annual work plan.
                                         malaria nets purchased and/or
                                         distributed (number)

                                         Condoms purchased and distributed
                                         (number)


                              Revised Arrangements for Results Monitoring
               PDO                       Outcome Indicators            Baseline     Actual     Target by     Proposed
                                                                        (2004)      (2009)      closing       Target
                                                                                                 date          Addit.
                                                                                                             Financing
Improve delivery of basic          Education1:
health and education services,     (i) Increased survival rate from    47%        66.7%        65%           NA
with a focus on equity and         grades 1 to 6 from 47% to
quality                            65%

                                   (ii) Improved promotion rate        60%        84.2%        75%           NA
                                   from grades 4 to 5 from 60%
                                   to 75%

                                   Health (per district):              84%        93.1%        95%           95%
                                   (i) Increase in the
                                   immunization rate for measles
                                   from 84% to 95%

                                   (ii) Increase in coverage of        90%        82.3%        95%           95%
                                   pregnant women receiving            (one       (4 visits)    (4 visits)   (4 visits)
                                   antenatal care from 90% (1st        visit)
                                   visit) to 95% (at least 4 visits)

                                   (iii) Increase in % of births       70%        86%          85%           90%
                                   attended by a skilled birth
                                   attendant from 70% to 90%

                                   (iv) Increase in contraceptive      29.9%      33%          NA            35%
                                   prevalence rate from 29.9% to
                                   35%2

1
    The education component is not included in the Additional Financing.
2
    2003. New indicator for the Additional Financing.


                                                            14
                                  (v) Direct project beneficiaries   0           78,000   NA           103,000
                                  103,000, of which female 60%                   (55%)                  (60%)
                                  (core indicator)

                                  Cross-sector Issues:
                                  (i) HIV prevalence among           5.4%    1.5%         <5%         <2%
                                  pregnant women remains
                                  below 2%

                                  (ii) % of women who identify
                                  correctly ways to prevent HIV      10%     49%          70%         55%3
                                  infection increases from 10%
                                  to 55%
                                  (iii) Incidence of malaria in
                                  children <5 years old remains
                                                                     1,273   34           <650        <35
                                  below 35 per 1,000

                                  Local governance of services
                                  (i) Successful implementation
                                                                     0       70           90          90
                                  of 90% of CDI subprojects




    Intermediate Results           Results Indicators for
    One per Component               Each Component
Component One:                    Component One:
Delivery of basic education
services

1.1 Better access and equity of   Sixty percent of schools
basic education                   offered continuous six grades      4       28           60          NA
                                  education

                                  About 350 additional students
                                  access 5th grade in underserved    0       1,514        365         NA
                                  areas

                                  Additional classrooms built or
                                  rehabilitated (number) (core       0       22           22          NA
                                  indicator)
1.2 Better quality and
efficiency of basic education
                                  % of schools using triple shift    27      8            0           NA
                                  teaching eliminated


                                  Repetition rate (grades 1-6)       27      16           15          NA
                                  reduced from 27% to 15%




3
 The 70 percent target is unlikely to be achieved by 2011. The target was revised to 55 percent to reflect a more
modest but realistic progress.

                                                         15
                                  Additional qualified primary
                                  teachers (number) (core            0      780       1,000     NA
                                  indicator)


                                  Effective learning time
                                  reached 4h30 per day               2:30   4:00      4:30      NA

                                  One textbook per student in
                                  principal subject matters          1:2    1:1       1:1       NA

                                  Textbooks purchased and
                                  distributed (number) (core         0      244,000   312,000   NA
                                  indicator)

                                  Learning assessment
                                                                     0      0         0         NA

Component Two:                    Component Two:

Delivery of basic health          Health facilities constructed,
services                          renovated, and/or equipped         0      16        16        20
2.3 Better access and equity to   (number) (core indicator)
basic health services


2.4 Better quality of basic       People with access to a basic
health services                   package of health, nutrition, or   0      78,000    NA        103,000
                                  population services (number)
                                  (core indicator)

                                  Health personnel receiving
                                  training (number) (core            0      52        NA        150
                                  indicator)


                                  Children immunized (number)        0      5,098     NA        5,468
                                  (core indicator)


                                  Pregnant women receiving           0      5,256     NA        5,485
                                  antenatal care during a visit to
                                  a health provider (number)


                                  Regular reporting by districts     50     100       100       NA
                                  to Health information system,
                                  according to plan (%)




                                                          16
 Component Three:                  Component Three:
 Addressing Cross-sectoral
 Issues ­ HIV/AIDS and             Condom availability at central
 Malaria                           level at least 5/hab/yr and      5           15           9            20
 3.1 HIV/AIDS                      increasing


 3.2 Malaria                       Long-lasting insecticide-        0           1,800        1,800        1,800
                                   treated malaria nets purchased
                                   and/or distributed (number)
                                   (core indicator)


                                   Condoms purchased and            0           1,800,000    1,500,000    2,250,000
                                   distributed (number) (core
                                   indicator)


Source: MoH. Most of the data are collected regularly as part of the project monitoring and evaluation assessment.
NA: Not Applicable.




                                                         17
                                           Annex 2: Project Costs



                                  Table 2: Project Costs by Component

                                 Component                                        Estimated Cost (US$)
A. Delivery of Basic Education Services                                                   N/A


B. Delivery of Basic Health Services                                                        1,510,000

B1. Improving equity and access to basic health services                                      775,000

B2. Improving quality to basic health services                                                735,000

C. Cross-Sectoral issues                                                                      540,000

C1. HIV/AIDS                                                                                  145,000

C2. Malaria                                                                                   395,000
D. Program Management and Implementation Support                                               50,000
TOTAL                                                                                       2,100,000




              Table 3: Project Costs of Original Activities and Additional Activities

                   Component/Sub-Component                          Costs of Ongoing        Costs of
                                                                       Activities          Additional
                                                                                           Activities
A. Delivery of Basic Education Services                                        N/A                N/A
B. Delivery of Basic Health Services                                      1,275,000           235,000
B1. Improving equity and access to basic health services                    775,000
B2. Improving quality to basic health services                              500,000            235,000
C. Cross Sector Issues                                                      135,000            405,000
C1.HIV/AIDS                                                                  85,000            200,000
C2. Malaria                                                                  50,000            205,000
D. Program Management and Implementation Support                                                50,000
Total Program Costs                                                       1,410,000            690,000




                                                           18
                               Annex 3: Risk Identification Worksheet



        Risk               Risk Rating Before           Mitigation Measure          Risk Rating
                               Mitigation                                              With
                                                                                    Mitigation
Political instability   Substantial                  The project was technically Moderate
poses high risk in                                   designed to avoid
the achievement of                                   substantial political
the project                                          interference on its
objectives.                                          activities. AFAP is staffed
                                                     with skilled staff recruited
                                                     on a competitive basis. A
                                                     close and frequent policy
                                                     dialogue between the IDA
                                                     team and the Ministry of
                                                     Health will continue to be
                                                     carried out. The PCMC
                                                     will continue to oversee
                                                     project implementation in a
                                                     technical and professional
                                                     manner as it has done since
                                                     the beginning of the
                                                     project.
High attrition rate     Substantial                  This is a critical risk that  Moderate
among health                                         was not identified by the
personnel threatens                                  original project. The
the stability of the                                 project focus on training an
health system and                                    increased number of staff
poses a risk for the                                 will augment the
achievement of the                                   availability of health staff;
project objectives.                                  the ongoing development
                                                     of a human resources
                                                     strategy and plan,
                                                     supported by the original
                                                     project and the additional
                                                     financing, is likely to bring
                                                     solutions for more
                                                     efficiency in the allocation,
                                                     deployment and retention
                                                     of staff.
Weak institutional      High                         Training of staff is a        High
capacity of the                                      central mitigation measure.
MoH poses risks                                      Incentive mechanisms such
for the effective                                    as the development of
implementation of                                    career paths and incentive

                                                19
the project.        schemes to reward high
                    performance are likely to
                    encourage public service
                    managers and staff to work
                    effectively.




               20
             Annex 4: Procurement Arrangements for the Additional Financing


I.    General

      The Bank assessed the implementing agency capacity to implement the Additional
      Financing and determined that the procurement arrangements for the original project
      should be the same for the Additional Financing.

1.    Project information:
      Country: Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe
      Project Name: Social Sector Support Project
      Grant Number: H088-STP
      Credit Number: 3902-STP
      Grant Number: H559-STP
      Project Implementing Agency (PIA): Project's Fiduciary and Administrative Agency

2.    Bank's approval Date of the procurement Plan October 31, 2009


3.    Period covered by this procurement plan: January 2010 ­ December 2010


II.   Goods and Works and non-consulting services

1.    Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as
      stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement:

                Procurement Method            Prior Review Threshold          Comments
1.    ICB and LIB (Goods)                  $150,000
2.    NCB (Goods)                          < $150,000                  Post review
3.    ICB (Works)                          $200,000
4.    NCB (Works)                          < $200,000                  Post review
5.    ICB (Non-Consultant Services)



2.     Prequalification: Not applicable

3.     Proposed Procedures for Components (as per paragraph. 3.17 of the Guidelines):
       Not applicable

4.     Reference to (if any) Project Operational/Procurement Manual: Available

5.     Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements: Not applicable




                                             21
6.       Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule

 1                  2                   3                4              5              6            7            8

Ref.            Contract             Estimated    Procurement        Domestic       Review       Expected    Comments
No.           (Description)            Cost         Method          Preference      by Bank        Bid-
                                      (USD)                          (yes/no)       (Prior /     Opening
                                                                                     Post)         Date
        Purchase of HIV test kits                                                               September
 1.     and male condoms              30,000            DC             N/A           Prior          9,        UNPF
                                                                                                  2010
        Purchase of equipments                                                                  August 17,
 2.     and materials to the         220,000            ICB            N/A           Post         2010
        Victor Sá Machado
        Institute
        Purchase of formative and                                                                July 23,
 3.     informative materials to      40,000            NS             N/A           Post         2010
        the National Center of
        Education for Health
        Construction       of    4                                                               June 24,
 4.     residences for the medical   200,000            ICB            N/A           Prior         2010
        staff
        Rehabilitation of health                                                                  July 8,
 5.     centers                      415,000            ICB            N/A           Prior         2010
        Purchase of 2                                                                            July 16,
 6.     ambulances, 12               250,000            ICB            N/A           Prior         2010
        motorcycles and 1 vehicle
        Purchase of computer                                                                      July 2,
 7.     equipment                     62,500         NCB               N/A           Post          2010
        Purchase of medical                                                                      June 18,
 8.     equipment and materials       75,000         NCB               N/A           Post          2010
        Purchase of furniture                                                                    June 25,
 9.                                   62,500         NCB               N/A           Post          2010


III.     Selection of Consultants

1. Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated in
   Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:

                       Selection Method                           Prior Review Threshold             Comments
1.     Quality and Cost-based Selection (Firms)                          $100,000
2.     Quality and Cost-based Selection (Firms)                         < $100,000             Post review
3.     Single Source Selection (Firms)
4.     Least-cost Selection                                             < $100,000             Only Audits and
                                                                                               Supervision of Works
5.     Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications                    $50,000
6.     Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications                   < $50,000              Post review

2. Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for services,
    estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national
    consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.


                                                             22
3. Any Other Special Selection Arrangements:

3.1. Lost-cost Selection

3.2. Selection Based on the Consultant's Qualifications

4. Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule

 1                       2                          3              4           5            6            7

Ref.         Description of Assignment           Estimated      Selection   Review       Expected     Comments
No.                                                Cost         Method      by Bank      Proposals
                                                                            (Prior /    Submission
                                                                             Post)         Date
1.     Project audits                                                                  November 30,
                                                  18,000          LCS        Post          2010
2.     Supervision of the rehabilitation                                                  July 1,
       works                                      15,000          LCS        Post          2010
3.     Supervision of the construction works                                             June 17,
                                                  20,000          LCS        Post          2010
4.     Technical Assistance to support the                                                June 5,
       Health Ministry to define the National     40,000         SBCQ        Post          2010
       Health's Financial System
5.     Technical Assistance to collect
       information to support the Health          15,000         SBCQ        Post        July 31,
       Statistics System and update the                                                   2010
       project indicators
6.     Technical Assistance to support the                                              August 31,
       Health Ministry to elaborate bulletins,    30,000         SBCQ        Post         2010
       materials and TV programs
7.     Technical Assistances to teach basic                                             October 4,
       health care to primary education           50,000         SBCQ        Post         2010
       teachers
8.     International Technical Assistance to                                            October 6,
       develop the national health financing      22,000         SBCQ        Post         2010
       system
9.     Technical Assistance to develop the                                              October 6,
       national health financing system           6,000          SBCQ        Post         2010
10.    Technical Assistance to support the                                               July 9,
       Health Ministry to elaborate the           25,000         SBCQ        Post         2010
       Strategic Plan for non communicable
       diseases
11.    Technical Assistance to support                                                    July 8,
       communities driven initiative             100,000           SS        Prior         2010        FONG
12.    Technical Assistance to support the                                               July 31,
       Health Ministry to define and              40,000         SBCQ        Post          2010
       implement the Strategic Plan for
       primary health care
13.    International Technical Assistance to                                            August 24,
       support the Health Ministry to             48,000         SBCQ        Post         2010
       elaborate formative and informative
       material and to develop capacity of
       the technical staff
14.    National Technical Assistance                                                    August 26,



                                                           23
      elaborate formative and informative      22,000        SBCQ            Post         2010
      materials and to develop capacity of
      the technical staff
15.   International Technical Assistance to                                             June 30,
      support the Health Ministry to           45,000        SBCQ            Post         2010
      implement the "SIS"
16.   National Technical Assistance to                                                   June 7,
      support the Health Ministry to           17,000        SBCQ            Post         2010
      implement the "SIS"
17.   National Technical Assistance to                                                 August 27,
      support the Health Ministry to revise    50,000        SBCQ            Post        2010
      the "PNDS, and Carta Sanitária "
18.   Technical Assistance to translate the                                           September 17,
      "PCIMAA"                                 20,000        SBCQ            Post         2010


IV.     Training


N     Expected outcome /                            Estimated       Estimated       Start Date        Comments
      Activity Description                          Cost            Duration

1.    Informatics and Statistics on Health              18,000      30 days            July 24,
                                                                                         2010
 2    Post-graduation in human resources                30,000      30 days             June 4,
                                                                                         2010
3.    Training of the TV personnel on audiovisual       20,000      30 days         September 27,     2 persons
                                                                                         2010
4.    Validation and dissemination of the primary       10,000      1 week           October 25,
      health care protocols                                                              2010
5.    Validation and dissemination of the Health        5,000       2 week             June 31,
      Information System (SIS)                                                           2010
6.    Workshops to disseminate the activities of        15,000      5 days            August 16,
      the Health Ministry                                                                2010
7.    Training on the Health Information System         3,000       2 days             June 16,
      (SIS) personal                                                                     2010
8.    Training of the technical staff on non            20,000      2 days             June 30,
      communicable diseases                                                              2010
9.    Training of the technical staff on "PCIMAA"       50,000      90 days            June 28,
                                                                                         2010
10.   Training of the technical consultant              12,500      90 days            June 21,
                                                                                         2010
11.   Two workshops for the managing directors          25,000      90 days          October 7, 8,
      of the Health Ministry                                                        November 4, 5,
                                                                                         2010



                                    




                                                        24
             Annex 5: Financial Management Arrangements and Flow of Funds

The FM performance of the initial project is Satisfactory. As a result, it is agreed that the FM
arrangements for the proposed AF will build on the achievements of the original project. The AF
will continue to be directly implemented under the same arrangements as agreed during the
original project. Below are the main changes and adjustment needed to implement the proposed
AF with the existing PCU.

1. Staffing: The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will not appoint any additional FM staff to
   maintain the existing FM system, account for and manage project funds.

2. Budgeting and planning: the activities to be financed under this AF are well identified as
   described in the two categories of allocation. In addition, the PCU will continue the
   preparation of the annual work plans during the Additional Financing implementation period
   and translate it into budget to be approved by IDA prior to execution. The PCU will monitor
   its execution and report on quarterly basis along with variances analysis to be included in the
   quarterly interim financial reports.

3. Upgrade the financial information system: the computerized accounting system used
   under the existing project was satisfactory and was able to generate accurate and timely
   financial reports. The computerized financial system will be expended to meet the specifics
   of the proposed AF project. The computerized FM system will be upgraded to a more current
   version to address the previously identified areas of improvement in Reporting noted by the
   external auditors. It will require few adjustments on the chart of accounts to record all
   transactions and generate the financial reports in a timely manner. The prevailing accounting
   policies and procedures in São Tomé and Príncipe will apply.

4. Internal controls: the existing controls designed in the current manual of procedures will be
   revised - along with the manual - and strengthened to take into account the fiduciary changes
   relative to FONG and the PCU over the past years. This revision will also factor in the
   lessons learned from the implementation of the original project so as to ensure a smoother
   implementation of the AF.

5. Internal audit: no internal auditor will be recruited for the AF.

6. Reporting: under the original project, the project performed well by submitting timely and
   reliable quarterly consolidated Interim Financial Reports (IFR) and the annual audited
   financial statements. As of Q4 2009, there is no overdue IFR or audit report. Subsequently, it
   is agreed to maintain the same reporting arrangements, whereby quarterly consolidated IFR
   will be submitted by the PCU to IDA within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter.
   The IFR will comprise the sources and use of funds and the detailed expenditures by
   component under the same format used under the original project, taken into account lessons
   learned and improvement proposed during the different supervision missions. At the end of
   each fiscal year, the PCU will issue the Project Financial Statements which will be audited by
   external auditors.




                                                25
7. Disbursement arrangements: The overall project funding will consist of IDA grant and
   Crisis Response Window (CRW) funds. These funds will finance all components and will be
   managed by the PCU through a new designated account denominated in US dollars opened
   and maintained in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The ceiling of the DA is
   US$200,000.

8. Disbursement methods: The transaction-based disbursements will apply given the PCU's
   lack of experience in using the report-based disbursements. As outlined in the Disbursement
   Letter, four disbursement methods (Advance, Reimbursement, Direct Payments and Special
   Commitments) are available to the PCU. Detailed disbursement procedures are documented
   in the Manual of procedures under revision and in the Disbursement Letter including the
   World Bank Disbursement Guidelines (May 2006).

9. Summary of Funds Flow Diagram
   No changes to the flow of funds from the original project, taking into account that no
   counterpart funds are applicable for the AF.

                       AFAP
Sources of Funds
Donors                IDA / 



Project               Designated                Project
Bank Accounts          Account                  Account
                       Dollars                  Dobras
(Commercial bank)


Upon grant effectiveness, an initial advance up to the ceiling amount will be made into the DA.
Subsequent advances will be disbursed against submission of statements of expenditures (or
records, as the case may be) which documents the use of the previous advance for eligible
project expenditures. Payments of project activities will be reconciled with the project account
and bank statements by the PCU Accountant and approved by the Financial Manager on a
monthly basis as during the original phase. Detailed banking arrangements, including control
procedures over all bank transactions (e.g. direct payment, check signatories, transfers, etc.) will
be maintained and documented in the Manual of Procedures under revision.

10. Counterpart funding: no counterpart funds apply for the AF.

11. Audits: similarly to the original project, the project annual financial statements will be
   audited by qualified external auditors and will cover activities under AF. The audit reports
   comprising the audited financial statements, a single audit opinion and a management letter
   will be submitted to IDA not later than 6 months within the end of each fiscal year. The
   tentative due date of the audit reports are June 30, 2011, June 30, 2012. The TOR of audits
   have been discussed and agreed upon. The 2010 audit will cover the original project and the


                                                26
    AF. Not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall have hired the
    external auditors for the Project, with qualifications and experience, and pursuant to terms of
    reference satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of Section III of
    Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

12. Fraud and corruption: the risk of fraud and corruption in education and health is substantial
    given the fragile country context. The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
    accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

13. Supervision plan: the project will be supervised on a risk-based approach. Supervision will
    focus on reviewing the acceptability of FM system in order to ensure that the project
    resources are used for the intended purposes and providing support where needed. Based on
    the current residual risk which is Moderate, the project will be supervised once a year
    including transactions reviews where adequate.

14. Action Plan

Actions                                            Completed by                       Responsible
1. Upgrade the computerized accounting             Within 3 months after              AFAP
system                                             effectiveness
2. Update the manual of procedures                 Within 3 months after              AFAP
                                                   effectiveness
3. Hire external auditors for the AF               Within 4 months after              AFAP
                                                   effectiveness

15. Risk identification worksheet: key FM risks are summarized as follow:

Risk                            Risk      Risk Mitigation Measures incorporated into Residual
                                Rating    the Project                                Risk
Inherent Risk
Country level                      S      None                                                S
Weak PFM system
Entity level                       S      Existing PCU adequately          staffed   with     M
Weak capacity of the Ministry             qualified fiduciary personnel.
of Health
Project level                      S      Fiduciary functions will be centralized at the      M
                                          PCU.
Overall Inherent risk              S                                                          M
Control Risk
Budgeting                          S      The annual work plan combined with the              M
                                          existing integrated financial system will be
                                          used to monitor the budget execution.
Accounting                         S      The PCU is already equipped with a                  M
                                          functioning integrated FM system which will
                                          be upgraded for the AF project.
Internal controls                  S      Strengthen the existing internal controls with      S
                                          application of controls by the fiduciary staff.
Funds flow                         S      No counterpart funds applicable.                    M


                                                 27
Risk                           Risk     Risk Mitigation Measures incorporated into Residual
                               Rating   the Project                                Risk

Financial reporting               S     The PCU will develop a mechanism to obtain       S
Management reports will not             financial data from FONG on a monthly basis
be consolidated and prepared            for preparation of IFRs.
timely
Auditing                          S     Contract of existing external auditors will be   M
                                        amended within 4 months after effectiveness.
Fraud and Corruption              S     Robust fiduciary arrangements are in place       S
The Grant's proceeds may be             comprising     a    qualified    FM     staff,
diverted from their intended            complemented by disbursement and auditing
purposes.                               arrangements.
Overall control risk              S                                                      M
Overall risk rating               S                                                      M




                                              28
