Report No. PID9279
Project Name             Croatia-Croatia Karst Ecosystem (@)
Conservation Project
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Natural Resources Management
Project ID               HRPE42014
Implementing Agency
KEC Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Kornelija Pintaric, Director
Ministry of Environmental Protection
and Physical Planning
Hvrore Glavac
Phone: 385 1 610 6566
Email: kornelija.pintaric@duzo.tel.hr
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        April 18, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      October 17, 2001
Bank Approval Date       May 23, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Croatia is endowed with internationally recognized karst ecosystem assets
which are in need of conservation. The main issue facing Croatia is the
challenge of balancing economic development of an impoverished region with
conservation of globally significant natural resources. Accelerated
economic development, including that of the tourism industry, in the
absence of a strong national and local level capacity to protect natural
resources could damage Croatia's ability to safeguard its biodiversity.
The government must cope with scarce resources and competing interests in
dealing with the following obstacles: (i) insufficient capacity within
the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP) to
conserve biodiversity in the karst region; (ii) lack of collaboration
between sectors to sufficiently incorporate biodiversity conservation into
physical planning and sectoral strategies, and (iii) a general lack of
environmental awareness regarding karst ecosystems; and (iv) a tradition
of limited public participation in the decision making process.Global
Significance of the Croatian Karst Ecosystem Croatia enjoys an unusually
rich biodiversity of global significance due to its geography, between the
Mediterranean and Central-European continental climatic regions, and its
geology, which is predominantly karst. The term "karst" originated in
Croatia and is applied to a specific landscape and morphology
characterized by the presence of limestone or other soluble rocks, where
drainage has been largely diverted into subterranean routes.     Croatian
karst ecosystems host 3,500 species of flora (283 endemic), 12 species of
amphibians, 36 species of reptiles, 200 species of resident birds, 79
species of mammals, and 64 species of freshwater fish (11 endemic). Much
of Croatia is karstic. The project selected for its focus the karst
region located within the Dinarid Mountain range, which runs through
Croatia from Slovenia to Bosnia.    The project region was selected because
its biodiversity is the most globally significant. The Dinarids include



hundreds of sinkholes, chasms, underground streams, and caves. Its
estimated 8,000 caves are among the deepest and most extensive in the
world and render the region a global hot-spot of subterranean
biodiversity. These subterranean karst habitats support an ever
increasing list of newly discovered endemic troglodytic (eyeless and
adapted for an entirely subterranean existence) species and families.
These include one new species, genus and family of leech Croatobranchus
mestrovi, which was found in a 1300 meter deep cave in the Velebit
mountain in 1994. Additional unique species found in Croatian karst
ecosystems are the only known cave sponge, cave clam, and cave
polychaete worm. Croatia is famous for its karst freshwater ecosystems
which include travertine/tuffa-building communities of micro-organisms.
The travertine barriers, some estimated to be over 40,000 years old,
created by these communities have led to the spectacular lakes and
waterfalls now protected within two national parks, one of which is
included in the KEC project, Plitvice Lakes National Park. Large areas of
the Dinarids, particularly in the Velebit Mountains, are densely covered
by forest communities of beech, fir, spruce and black pine, a relict
alpine sub-species found only in the Velebit area. The Karst region
contains the largest part of unfragmented forest in Croatia (almost 50t of
forests), the integrity of which is evidenced by the presence of viable
populations of large carnivores (wolf, brown bear, and lynx). The global
significance of Croatia's karst ecosystem is evidenced by the
international recognition it has received. Plitvice Lakes National Park
is on the UNESCO's World List of Natural and Cultural Heritage. The
Velebit Mountain Range is part of the UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere
Program, and has been identified by the WWF's Forest Hot-spot Initiative
as one of the ten most important forest areas in the Mediterranean
region.Threats to Karst Biodiversity. The impacts of threats to the
karst ecosystem's biodiversity, with the exception of eutrophication in
the surface waters of Plitvice Lakes National Park, have not been
scientifically documented to date, but are believed to be significant.
The Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan (BSAP) and Nation Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) note that the lack of systematic inventory and
monitoring of the ecosystem and species status has resulted in an
insufficient basis for determining the exact nature and magnitude of
threats to biodiversity. However, in light of observed habitat changes
and fragmentation; water and air pollution; extensive exploitation of
natural resources; and introduction of foreign species experienced in the
project region, all threats to biodiversity, the BSAP assumes that the
karst ecosystem biodiversity is declining. Both the subterranean and
terrestrial karst ecosystems are fragile, interconnected, and dependent
upon the maintenance of a delicate balance between relief, hydrology,
climate and vegetation. The surface ecosystems of predominantly natural
forest and traditional pastoral land generally serve to buffer the
subterranean ecosystems but the effectiveness of this function can be
significantly reduced by subtle changes in land-use and vegetation cover.
For instance, land-use changes can lead to the rapid influx of water in
all parts of a karst cave system, resulting in significant changes in the
subterranean ecosystems. In recent years, these threats have been
partially averted by reduced economic activity, particularly in tourism
and agriculture, during and after the   war (1991-95).     Today, post-war
Croatia is on a fast track of economic development, spurred, in part, by a
new government (February 2000) and the opening of EU accession
discussions.  Tourism, once a mainstay of Croatian economy,    has
- 2 -



traditionally been carried out on a "mass tourism" basis, as opposed to
"nature-based tourism". As the tourism industry rebounds it could have
serious implications for biodiversity conservation. Other sector
development projects which traditionally hurt biodiversity, e.g. roads,
hydropower, are also proposed for the project region. Obstacles to
Biodiversity ConservationLimited capacity for conservation management.
The primary form of biodiversity conservation in Croatia is its protected
area system.  About 8.2 % of Croatia's area is under some form of
protection.   There are eight types of protected areas in the country with
national parks (8) and nature parks (10) being the highest level of
protection. National and nature parks are managed by the state; other
protected areas are the responsibility of the counties within which they
lie. Biodiversity conservation is governed by the Law on Nature
Protection, noted by the Croatia Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan (BSAP)
to be inadequate for purposes of biodiversity conservation and now under
revision. Parks are financed by a combination of self-generated revenues,
generally from visitor fees, and a minimal allocation from the MEPP
budget. The designation of newly protected areas has outpaced the
capacity for their management both in terms of human and financial
resources. Overall, staffing is inadequate particularly on the local
level. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning
(MEPP) faces serious challenges managing the growing number of protected
areas while also dealing with growing economic pressures. MEPP nature
protection division currently has fourteen staff. The nature protection
inspection department has four staff. MEPP has no staff on the county
level in the project region and only four in the entire country. Some
counties have taken the initiative to hire environmental specialists
(Primorsko-Goranka), and it is in these counties where one can see best
practice of incorporating biodiversity conservation concerns into physical
and protected area plans.     Capacity for biodiversity conservation is
also limited by inadequate quality and quantity of data, as previously
mentioned. The lack of a systematic inventory and monitoring of the
ecosystem and species status has resulted in an inability to accurately
identify trends and patterns in biodiversity and their impacts. This also
limits MEPP's ability to ensure appropriate conservation measures.     For
the scientific information that does exist, no one institution is
responsible for collation, analysis, processing or dissemination of the
karst biodiversity studies that have been conducted by museums, university
faculties, NGOs, and others. Thus decision making and analysis are often
based on fragmented and unrelated results of specific scientific
research.   Inadequate integration of biodiversity conservation into
physical plans and sectoral strategies Physical planning. Land use plans
in Croatia are referred to as "physical plans." Physical plans are
governed by the "Law of Physical Planning"(1994, amended in 1998).
Physical plans define: natural, cultural or other characteristics meriting
special consideration; the basic organization of the space; measures of
use; development and protection of the area, with all activities that
have priority; measures for improvements and protection of environment;
and if needed, the contents of more detailed, physical development plans
for narrower areas. Croatia has a national Physical Planning Strategy;
county level physical plans; physical plans for areas with particular
features (e.g. Velebit Mountain), and protected area physical plans.
Responsibility for all types of physical planning falls under the MEPP.
On the county level, the county physical planning offices prepare and
implement the county physical plans as well as those for the protected
- 3-



areas, reporting to the MEPP. Implementation of physical plans is
reviewed every two years with recommendations for improvements adopted as
needed. The management of national parks and nature parks is based on
physical plans and in some cases specific park, protected area management
plans such as in Paklenica NP. Land-use of the areas surrounding the
national parks is managed via county level physical plans. Lack of
coordination between physical management plans and protected area
management plans is one of the problems for biodiversity conservation.
Physical plans are developed independently of protected area plans and do
not incorporate biodiversity conservation. Protected area physical plans
are generally inadequately integrated with local land-use needs as
identified in county physical plans. Protected areas, specifically
national and nature parks, have no overall management plans that would
typically include business management plans. As part of Project
preparation, a review of existing county physical plans and protected area
physical plans was conducted and the resulting recommendations were
incorporated into project design. Another problem is that intersectoral
coordination in developing physical plans is limited. Methods for
intersectoral collaboration and guidelines are needed for the integration
of biodiversity concerns into county level physical plans, sectoral plans,
and protected areas physical and management plans. Sectoral Strategies.
Biodiversity conservation is not incorporated in most sectoral strategies,
notably in those of the tourism, forestry, and agriculture sectors which
have potentially great impacts on biodiversity. Sectoral strategies are
not subject to review by the MEPP.    Tourism.   In the pre-war period,
tourism was an economic pillar for Croatia accounting for nearly 12; of
the GDP. Although much of the country's attraction to tourists was based
on the integrity of its natural resources, in fact there was virtually no
awareness of conservation . The Government's intention is to increase
revenues from tourism to bolster the national economy and, to this end, a
national tourism master plan is in preparation. In the absence of
adequate safeguards, increased tourism could result in negative
environmental impacts such as habitat destruction from overuse or
pollution.   Nature based tourism should be developed in a manner that
recognizes and limits impacts to vulnerable karst ecosystems and
biodiversity.   Forestry.  70t of the karst region is forested.   All
forested lands that are not protected areas, as well as forests of nature
parks, are managed by Hrvatske Sume (HS), the state-owned national forest
authority. Production in these forests is carried out according to
forest management plans, which are developed on a 10 year cycle and take
into consideration ecological and environmental functions of the forest.
However, forest management may not adequately address biodiversity
conservation issues, and production forestry reportedly continues to take
place in some areas that have recently been assigned protected area
status. HS has 15 forest districts and 168 local offices, which do not
directly correspond to the administrative units for physical planning or
protected area boundaries. This organizational structure poses a
challenge to a more integrated approach to multiple land-use planning, yet
the harmonization of forest management, physical and protected area
planning processes is a clear need for the project region. Agriculture.
There is a strong link between traditional agricultural and grazing
practices in the project region and biodiversity. Grazing on highlands
and hence the enlargement of meadows have been key factors in establishing
the existing biodiversity in the project region.   About 509 of the local
flora is adapted to open landscapes rather than forests ecosystems.
- 4 -



However, significant depopulation of the project region and land mine
remnants (about 14t of the forested area in the KEC region is land-mined)
have resulted in the cessation of traditional agricultural and grazing
practices. The BSAP identified protection of grassland habitats and the
revitalization of cattle breeding in the project region as strategic
objectives for biodiversity conservation.    As examples of successful
integration of biodiversity conservation into sectoral programming, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MOAF), which also considers the
karst region as an area of strategic importance for grazing in open
grasslands, now promotes keeping livestock in the project region by
providing higher than national level subsidies for cows, pigs, sheep,
horse and milk. The Croatian Selection Center for Domestic Animals (HSSC)
of MOAF coordinates and finances subsidies that protect autochthonous,
endangered breeds of sheep, cow, horse and goat in Croatia. Among these
breeds is the Lika Pramenka sheep which is important for the protection of
the karst grassland areas. Lack of environmental awareness regarding karst
ecosystems and limited public participation in the decision making
process. Participation of the public in decision-making of any kind,
including environmental issues, has traditionally been low. Mass media
show little interest in environmental issues and protection resulting in a
low level of information and education of the general public. While
growing, the influence and involvement of NGOs has been limited in the
past. Despite the lack of awareness regarding the need to protect karst
ecosystems, there is a strong sense of pride among Croatians in their
natural and cultural landscape and this could easily be tapped if
effective mechanisms were put into place. Government commitment and
strategy. The new government has demonstrated a commitment to improving
the legal and institutional framework for nature protection.
Institutionally the environment sector was elevated from a directorate to
ministerial status.    Environment was also combined with physical planning
to form a Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning
(MEPP) in recognition of the inter-relationship between environmental
protection, land-use, and development, and expanded opportunities for
inter-sectoral coordination. As a nascent institution, the MEPP suffers
from the country's overall budgetary problems -- but it appears to be
going in the right direction. The MEPP has shown commitment to
environmental issues by preparing revisions of the major piece of
environmental legislation, the Law on Nature Protection (82/94), to
broaden the mandate of environmental protection and to authorize a more
pro-active approach in emphasizing sustainable development and use of
natural resources. In support of this objective, MEPP has established a
Department for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources. The draft
legislation is expected to pass a second government review in early 2002
and then be submitted to the government and Parliament for approval
(expected in late 2002).    The new draft includes   guidelines,
recommendations and concrete measures from the BSAP, as well as addressing
outstanding issues related to international agreements. The new law
integrates EU Directives and harmonizes Croatia's law with existing laws
of neighboring countries (Slovenia and Hungary).     The Government's
significant contribution of US$3.2 million to the proposed Karst Ecosystem
Conservation Project (KEC) reflects its strong commitment to biodiversity
conservation. Regarding the obstacles to effective conservation, the
government's strategy is less well formulated. Currently, the
biodiversity and protected management sectors are faced with the same
economic problems as the rest of the country. The government, in
- 5 -



particular the MEPP, is taking a serious look at economic instruments for
financing environmental protection. The NEAP recommends new approaches to
financing environmental programs, including biodiversity conservation.
Meanwhile, the protected areas are each seeking opportunities to increase
revenues and capture them for conservation activities. Protected area
managers and staff are engaging in study tours and exchange programs,
funded under project preparation, to national parks in Italy, Slovenia and
the U.S.   However, the integration of biodiversity conservation into
other sectors' planning, while a strong recommendation of the BSAP, has
not taken hold and will be a major goal of the KEC project. This will be
accomplished by developing guidelines for sectoral strategies, training,
and selected inter-sectoral activities.    The government is particularly
concerned to identify impacts of tourism on environment. The NEAP
recommends a strategy towards tourism that protects natural resources;
balances development with sustainability; strengthens eco-tourism and
reduces emphasis on mass tourism; and educates tourists and local
residents. Several "eco-tourism" conferences have been held in Croatia in
2000 and 2001 bringing together key stakeholder groups to discuss
opportunities and strategies. Biodiversity specialists have played key
roles in designing and participating in these tourism conference. In the
forestry sector, the Forestry Law is being updated in a way that would
integrate biodiversity interests and allow other uses of forests e.g.
recreation, biodiversity protection, nature based tourism, under certain
circumstances.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is that local residents, tourists and
other visitors to participating national parks and other protected areas
in the karst region refrain from practices identified as detrimental to
biodiversity conservation and adopt recommended behaviors that preserve
and protect the unique features of the karst environment. In support of
this objective, the project will assist the Government of Croatia to
strengthen institutional and technical capacity for biodiversity
conservation, integrate biodiversity conservation into physical planning
and sectoral strategies, strengthen management of protected areas, and
promote entrepreneurial and tourism activities which support sustainable
natural resource use and conservation of the karst ecosystem within the
Dinarid Mountain Range.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of GEF support for the KEC project comes from providing
additional funds to ensure the long-term protection of biodiversity of
global importance. Without GEF support to coordinate these activities,
Croatia might undertake a series of small activities in different parts of
the country, but would lack a mechanism to coordinate the financing, and
approaches and geographical targeting of activities. The Bank has
assisted Croatia with preparation of the BSAP and NEAP, which both provide
a strategic foundation for this project. Bank experience with ongoing
project in Croatia's forest, agriculture, water, and biodiversity sectors
add value to the KEC project. Through its role as broker, the Bank has
and will continue to mobilize donor support for biodiversity conservation
in Croatia.
4. Description
Results of five studies conducted under project preparation were used in
- 6 -



designing the project: Social and Rural Development Assessment;
Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey; Legal, Regulatory and Institutional
Review; Land and Natural Resource Management Plan Review; and Public
Awareness and Environmental Education Needs Assessment. In addition to
these studies, results of a technical assistance mission sponsored by the
U.S. Department of Interior/National Parks Service, conducted in
September, 2000; and a study tour of Croatian national park directors to
U.S. National Parks, May, 2001, were used to guide both national level and
site specific project activities.    Results of the background studies were
used to select the project region boundaries. The project region
encompasses three counties - Primorje-Gorski Kotar, Lika-Senj, and Zadar.
Within the project region are four national parks and nature parks from
North to South being: Risnjak National Park, Plitvice National Park, and
the Velebit Nature Park, which includes in its territories North Velebit
Nature Park and Paklenica National Park. The project region is defined
in more detail in Annex 2. The three project components are as
follows:Component 1. Build national capacity to conserve biodiversity and
support sustainable resource use Activities to strengthen national
capacity fall into five sub-components:(i) Strengthening laws and
regulatory framework. The project will finance a review and/or revision
of biodiversity-related regulations and sectoral strategies to incorporate
biodiversity conservation concerns. The project will finance training in
the use of the guidelines to staff from relevant government agencies,
including the Ministry of Forestry and Agriculture, Ministry of Tourism,
Croatia Forests (HS), Croatia Waters (HV); physical planners; and
protected area staff; as well as NGOs and citizens. (ii) Strengthening
national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation. The project will
finance preparation of protected area management and planning guidelines
which include biodiversity concerns; guidelines for community and NGO
participation in protected area management; a protected area system market
analysis, promotion and marketing plan; a protected area financing
strategy; and a pilot project on biodiversity information dissemination.
The project will develop and conduct a ranger training program. (iii)
Expansion of species and taxa under legal protection. Project preparation
studies found that may be other areas in the project region which could
be eligible for protected area status.    For these areas, which include
Ogulin and the Kupa Valley, the project will finance feasibility studies
including an analysis of biodiversity; assessment of water management
issues related to biodiversity conservation; equipment for underwater
biodiversity monitoring; and revision of the list of taxa under legal
protection. (iv) Biodiversity inventory, mapping and monitoring. The
project will finance consultant services and equipment for inventory and
mapping of the biodiversity priority areas (identified by the BSAP and
Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey); a specific inventory of the
biodiversity of caves in the project region and necessary equipment for
such; a study of cave hydrology in the project region; and a monitoring
program for large carnivores in the project region. The project will
finance the development of a GIS for the project region, the database, and
training for staff in its use.(v) Increasing public awareness and support
for biodiversity conservation. The project will finance development of a
public awareness strategy; development of a WEB site and TV spots on
biodiversity conservation; a guide to karst biodiversity; annual
workshops/festivals on biodiversity conservation; and preparation of a
traveling exhibition on biodiversity and the KEC Project.Component 2.
Establishing community-based mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and
-7 -



sustainable resource use in the karst region The project will support
measures to preserve the globally significant biodiversity in the Karst
region through community level activities and capacity building for
protected area management.    Activities to meet this objective fall into
three sub-components: (i) Promotion of sustainable nature based tourism.
The project will finance development of a local level tourism strategy
which includes determination of the nature-based tourism potential in the
region and economic opportunities in tourism; a visitor management plan
for selected protected areas; and preparation and field works on the
European-6 (E-6) hiking trail through the project region (E-6) is a branch
of a larger network of hiking trails which spans Europe). (ii) Increasing
local public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation. The
project will finance preparation of national park promotion materials for
park visitors, local population, and schools; and preparation of field
guides for the project region.(iii) Improved protected area management and
services for biodiversity conservation. In each of the five protected
areas in the project region, the project will finance refurbishing of
existing visitor structures, information kiosks, and research facilities
(where they already exist); a "people and parks" program, each to be
designed specific to the protected area and intended to ensure direct,
community involvement in the decision making process; field works, e.g.
trails, signs; data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment
including computers, GIS software; field equipment, e.g. field telephone,
binocular, staff uniforms, safety equipment; equipment for monitoring
programs; and staff development in skills such as interpretation,
education, monitoring, research. The project will finance distinct
investments/activities in each of the five protected areas, according to
their needs as follows:Paklenica NP: The project will finance the
"Recovery of the Eurasian Vulture (Gyps fulvus) Project" by providing
equipment, education material, and monitoring equipment.     Plitvice NP:
The project will finance preparation of a park management plan; laboratory
equipment for the research facility; and mowing equipment. North Velebit
NP: The project will finance preparation of a park management plan; and
rehabilitation of a park road.Velebit Nature Park: The project will
finance preparation of a park management plan; field vehicles; mountain
shelters, camp sites, and fire control equipment. Risnjak NP: The project
will finance rescue equipment, horses and equipment; a traveling exhibit;
camp site facilities.(iv) Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants
Program.   The goal of this sub-component is to demonstrate of linkages
between rural development and biodiversity conservation. The main
activity under this sub-component is the financing of the Conservation and
Rural Revitalization Grants program (CRRG). The conservation and rural
revitalization grants (CRRG) program is designed to enable groups and
individuals to carry out activities that contribute to achieving the goals
and objectives of the project. The CRRG program will support
entrepreneurial projects which demonstrate linkages between sustainable
use of natural resources, economic development and biodiversity
conservation.   $500,000  will be available for grants to farmers,
artisans, entrepreneurs, businesses, and NGOs. Public-private partners or
NGOs in partnership with others are also eligible. Grant activities could
include support to local communities to develop small businesses, such as
tourism services, crafts, food services; support of demonstration projects
linking conservation and sustainable natural resource use such as
traditional agricultural activities, forestry and water resource related
projects; and public education and outreach activities.     The goal of the
- 8 -



CRRG project is to encourage projects in biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use of biological resources in the KEC project region;
community development and increased civil society participation in
biodiversity conservation; and NGO activity in conservation. The
specific objectives of the CRRG program are to:Enhance the objectives and
activities of the KEC project by supporting community based initiatives
which address the KEC goal;Demonstrate the link between the objectives of
conservation and tangible benefits for local communities;Develop
replicable approaches to economic development which ensures biodiversity
conservation;Strengthen new and emerging local civic groups and NGOs in
order to promote biodiversity conservation;Test innovative approaches and
technologies to biodiversity conservation; andEstablish partnership
between local communities, protected areas administrations, NGOs and PIUs
to promote sustainable development of local communities in the KEC project
areaAnnex 2 provides more details about the CRRG program. The Project
Implementation Plan includes a CRRG draft operations manual which details
the proposed administrative, procurement, disbursement, and application
arrangements.   The operations manual will be finalized with the
involvement of the local advisory boards during the first year of KEC
project implementation. Completion of the final CRRG operations manual
will be a condition of disbursement of grants. This sub-component will
also finance a local cattle breeds protection program; and rehabilitation
of the Glacka river springs facility which is a cultural heritage and
biodiversity conservation site. Both of these activities are further
demonstrations of linkages between economic development, tourism, and
conservation.(v) Regional Cooperation Program for Karst Ecosystem
Conservation. Under this sub-component financial support for Croatia to
encourage partnerships with Croatia's neighbors, particularly Slovenia
(Risnjak and Kupa River Project), will be provided to encourage and
support transboundary solutions to biodiversity conservation. The project
will finance the inventory and monitoring of the biodiversity of springs,
groundwater, caves, meadows, forests and cliffs on the Croatian side of
the border region between Croatia and Slovenia in the Risnjak National
Park region. It will finance the preparation of the Risnjak National Park
Management plan in coordination with Slovenia. The project will finance a
tourism marketing plan for the Croatian region on the Slovenian border;
promotional materials; international workshops; and participation of
Croatian protected area staff in karst workshops.     The project will
finance study tours to European countries including France; and
participation in international and regional workshops, training,
partnerships, and conferences related to project objectives.     Component
3. Project Management and Monitoring The project will finance the
establishment and operation of a central PIU located within the MEPP in
Zagreb and composed of a project manager, a procurement specialist,
financial management specialist, and an assistant. The project will also
finance a local PIU that will be located within the county/municipal
physical planning office in Gospic, one of the two county seats included
in the project. The local PIU will be staffed by a project field
coordinator and assistant. Donor interest in the KEC project has been
strong. During project preparation the U.S.Agency for International
Development (USAID), the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) and the
U.S. National Park Service (NPS) worked together with the KEC project team
to help identify KEC project components directed towards the five
protected areas included in the project. DOI-NPS financed a technical
assistance mission of three protected area management specialists for
-9-



three weeks to Croatia in September, 2000 , to assist with KEC project
design. DOI/NPS sponsored a Croatian delegation of protected area
managers to the U.S. National Parks in April, 2001. DOI/NPS worked with
the KEC project team and MEPP to design a program "Practical Training in
National Parks" financed, in part, by USAID/Croatia. This program was
designed to improve visitor interpretation services in two KEC project
national parks; and to provide job-training to local youths thus assisting
in the reintegration of war-affected populations in the KEC project
region.   This US$120,000 program was carried out from June 2001-April
2002. Based on its success, US DOI/NPS is currently considering a
sequel  to be conducted in FY03 at approximately the same funding level.
The KEC project will continue to work closely with US DOI/NPS during KEC
project implementation. US DOI has offered the services of the project
manager of their program to the MEPP/KEC team.The Dutch Partners for Water
program is financing a $100,000 Croatian technical assistance project for
FY03. The goal of the project is to support KEC project activities by
providing Dutch expertise in groundwater, pollution and biodiversity
conservation in preparing karst conservation guidelines. If successful it
is expected that an additional $100,000 will be available for FY04.
1. Strengthening national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support
sustainable resource use.
2. Community based mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and
sustainable resource use in the Karst region
3. Project Management and Monitoring
Unallocated
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT       $3.30
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                 $5.07
Total Project Cost       $8.37
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 5 yearsProject oversight: The MEPP will have
overall responsibility for project implementation and a national level
project implementation unit (PIU) will be established in the MEPP Division
of General Environmental Policy. The PIU will build on the existence of
the KEC project preparation implementation unit. The PIU will be
responsible for all procurement, disbursement and financial management
aspects of the project as well as oversight of consultants, seminars and
training. The PIU will be responsible for coordinating with other donors
the implementation of components to be supported through parallel and
co-financing. It will also be responsible for all reporting requirements
to the Bank and the Government. It will be staffed by a project director,
procurement and disbursement specialist, financial specialist and an
assistant, funded under the project. The project would also finance a
local PIU office in Gospic, the county seat of Lika Senj. The local PIU
office, provided by the government, will be in the county department
office building which houses local offices for all sectors and for
physical planning. This will facilitate local level inter-sectoral
- 10 -



coordination and planning.    Since Gospic has been identified by county
officials as the best location for a proposed regional development pole,
locating a PIU here offers the potential to coordinate the project with
county development plans. The local PIU will be responsible for
day-to-day project implementation and local level coordination. The local
PIU will be staffed by a project field coordinator and assistant funded by
the project.   The local level PIU will report directly to the national
PIU. Staffing and technical decisions for the local PIU will be the
responsibility of the MEPP Division of Nature Protection. The CRRG
program will support projects that further the KEC project development
objective. The beneficiaries would include community based organizations,
NGOs, private entrepreneurs, and local residents. The PIU would be
assisted by an inter-agency Project Steering Committee established prior
to Board presentation. The Steering Committee consists of
representatives from relevant Ministries and institutions, including
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning, Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, State Directorate for Water, and Croatia
Waters. The Steering Committee would be responsible for providing project
oversight advice, inter-ministerial coordination, and assistance in
resolving issues associated with project implementation. The Minister for
Environmental Protection and Physical Planning will be chairman for this
committee.   The Steering Committee will build on the success of the
inter-agency committee which oversaw KEC project preparation. Local
advisory groups from each of the three main project regions (Plitvice,
Paklenica, and the Velebit), selected by, and comprised of,
representatives of key stakeholder groups, will also assist the PIU. The
functions of the national and local PIU and the terms of reference of
staff are included in Annex I of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) as
are the functions of the local advisory board and steering
committee.Financial ManagementA review of the Financial Management
arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001 to determine
whether the financial management arrangements within the PIU are
acceptable to the Bank. It is concluded that the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
The MEPP and PIU have also agreed to take the following measures:Action
Deadlinel. Prepare FMRsFirst half year after Effectiveness2. The PIU to
select auditors acceptable to the Bank, to audit the Grant
accounts.09/30/2002Financial Reporting. The PIU will ensure the
preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic progress reports to
the relevant government institutions, including the World Bank, to
reflect: (i) sources and uses of funds, by component and activity; (ii)
project progress; and (iii) procurement activities. In this context, the
PIU will prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which
would be submitted to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each half
year. The first FMRs will be submitted for the first half year after
Effectiveness . The FMRs formats were discussed during appraisal and was
agreed at negotiations.Audit Arrangements. The PIU, would be responsible
for ensuring that the Project financial statement, Special Accounts (SA),
and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent
auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Auditing
Standards (IAS). The PIU will maintain responsibility for the management
of project funds and the Special Account. They will monitor and keep track
of the use of funds. The audit will cover all funds related to the
project, including counterpart funds, for all project components. The
annual audit will be conducted in accordance with the Guidelines for
- 11 -



Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed. The audited
financial statements, the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding
fiscal year will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the
fiscal year. Disbursements. Disbursements from the Grant will be made
based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Account
with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and
full documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). The
proceeds of the World Bank Grant will be allocated in accordance with
Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the MEPP
will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. While, the PIU will prepare all the
required documents and keep accounts for the project, all payments will be
made by the accounting department of the MEPP, as required by law. The
option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
7. Sustainability
la. Institutional sustainabilityThe national government agencies
responsible for biodiversity conservation, municipal governments of the
local projects' areas, and the local protected area management and
technical staff are in full support of the project. The project
preparation counterpart team includes representatives from local level
protected areas, protected area advisory boards, county management;
national level government officials and private sector experts from
biodiversity conservation, forestry, water, agriculture, and tourism. On
the field level, where day-to-day project implementation will occur, the
local PIU will work closely with the directors of the protected areas, as
well as the local authorities responsible for physical planning, forest
management, and environmental protection.    The local PIU office is
located within the county offices which manage local level environment,
forestry, agriculture and water activities which will contribute to
sustainability. Through capacity building and institutional strengthening
and increased coordination between various implementing agencies at the
local, regional and national level, institutional sustainability has been
addressed.lb. Social sustainabilityFrom its inception the project has
tried to involve key stakeholders in project preparation and
implementation, including policy makers, citizens and NGOs, to ensure
social sustainability of the project. Future initiatives aim to involve
the local communities by developing activities that will reduce pressure
on the natural resources through effective management and alternatives,
increase in public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation.
These should also contribute to social sustainability.     The inclusion of
a "people and parks" program into each of the five protected areas will
ensure community involvement in decision making. To demonstrate
sustainable economic development, compatible with biodiversity
conservation, the components will be responsive to the needs of the local
residents. Local advisory boards for each of the KEC region's three
counties will be key players in project implementation.lc. Financial
SustainabilityThe Government's contribution to the project of US$3.2
million includes taxes (US$1.3 million); some investment costs --
facilities and refurbishing costs (US$1.4 million); and US$0.5 million to
cover recurrent costs (staff). The 39t level of government contribution
reflects the extremely strong commitment to the project. The Project
incorporates measures to ensure financial sustainability of protected area
maintenance and eco-system conservation in the Karst region. The
Government recognizes the importance of conservation of Karst ecosystems
- 12 -



and minimization of the negative impact of protected area visitation for
the sustainability of tourism in the long run. It is committed to
ensuring that protected area operations and maintenance and conservation
activities are financed adequately and in a sustained fashion. To this
end, MEPP has decided that in the Plitvice Lakes National Park an adequate
amount from the visitor revenues be dedicated to the above activities.
In the Risnjak, Paklenica and Velebit National Parks, where there is
potential for increased at the visitation level, project components, such
as demand analysis and marketing plan development, based on carrying
capacity assessments, will help improve visitation and hence revenues.
The recent revitalization of tourism to Croatia will be a complimentary,
positive factor in this direction. At times when visitor revenues are
insufficient to cover necessary operation and maintenance and conservation
costs, the Government is committed to provide complimentary funding.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience from other similar initiatives in Central and Eastern Europe
suggests that:(a) All stakeholders should be involved early in project
concept design, specifically local communities and influential decision
makers, by inviting them to workshops or public awareness programs, in
order to instill a feeling of ownership, build lasting commitment and
achieve successful project implementation; (b) Conservation management
strategies should establish a link between the objectives of conservation
and tangible benefits for key stakeholders, specifically including local
communities (e.g., economic and community development associated with
appropriate forms of rural and ecotourism, etc.);(c) In order to achieve
environmental, social and financial sustainability, conservation
strategies must be site-specific and address local needs and issues; (d)
Where consumptive use of natural resources is an issue, (e.g., grazing,
hunting, fishing, and use of other forest products), resource users must
be substantively involved in the design of sustainable resource management
systems, and effective monitoring and control mechanisms need to be
developed and applied; (e) Applied research and monitoring programs should
also be site-specific and targeted to provide direct support for effective
conservation management; (f) Problems should be solved jointly with
clients and not for them; and(g) Decentralized responsibility for
financial and project management builds local ownership and sustainability
of project activities.(h) Successful project implementation requires that
PIU staff be in place prior to project start-up; the first year
procurement plan is ready by negotiations; and sequencing of project
activities is determined prior to implementation.(i) A successful
competitive grant program is dependent on several factors: (i)
identification of realistic and focused priorities; (ii) a well trained
Board and staff; (iii) an independent and transparent peer review process;
(iv) accountability; (v) efficient and effective fiduciary procedures; and
(vi) a well defined monitoring and evaluation system.The project will
incorporate these experiences and build on them specifically by: (i)
addressing the links between socio-economic issues and sustainable natural
resource use and management through the rural revitalization grants
program, (ii) building both the local and national capacity for
conservation management, (iii) developing mechanisms for local level
participation in conservation and land-use decision-making, e.g. a "People
and Parks" program in each protected area; (iv) ensuring a participatory
and transparent approach to project preparation and implementation (v)
ensuring PIU staff are in place, the first year procurement plan is ready,
- 13 -



and project sequencing determined prior to project start-up; and (vi)
preparing a Small grants program operations manual following procedures
described in "Good Practices for Procurement, Disbursement and Financial
Management for Competitive Grant Program in ECA Countries."
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues          The objective of the project is to mitigate and
preempt the environmental impacts of development in the karst region. The
project has been specifically designed to address national, global and
trans-boundary environmental issues of biodiversity protection and
improved management and sustainable use of natural resources. Short term
impacts may result during the construction of civil works, including
visitor facilities and nature trails. The location of visitor centers and
marked trails at project sites will be chosen so as to limit the
environmental impact of visitors. Visitor centers will not be located
inside the core protected areas, and their design, construction and
management will be in accordance with World Bank environmental guidelines.
An environmental assessment including an environmental management plan
were prepared during project preparation.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rita Klees
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)473-4186
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
- 14 -



