E525
January 2002
Croatia Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Back2round: Croatia enjoys unusually rich biodiversity of global significance due to its
geography, between the Mediterranean and Central-European continental climatic
regions, and its geology, which is predominantly karst. The term "karst" originated in
Croatia and is applied to a specific landscape and morphology characterized by the
presence of limestone or other soluble rocks, where drainage has been largely diverted
into subterranean routes. The globally prominent Croatian karst ecosystems host 3,500
species of flora (283 endemic), 12 species of amphibians, 36 species of reptiles, 200
species of resident birds, 79 species of mammals, and 64 species of freshwater fish, (11
endemic). Subterranean karst habitats support an ever increasing list of newly discovered
endemic trogloditic (eyeless and adapted for an entirely subterranean existence) species
and families. These include one new species, genus and family of leech Croatobranchus
mestrovi. Croatia's subterranean biodiversity also includes the world's only known cave
sponge, the only known cave calm, and the only known cave polychaete worm. Croatia
is famous for its karst freshwater ecosystems which include travertine/tuffa-building
communities of micro-organisms. The resulting travertine barriers, some estimated to be
over 40,000 years old, have led to the spectacular lakes and waterfalls now protected
within two national parks - Plitvice and Krka. . The global significance of Croatia's
karst ecosystem is internationally recognized. Plitvice Lakes National Park is on the
UNESCO's World List of Natural and Cultural Heritage. The Velebit Mountain Range is
part of the UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Program, and has been identified by the
World Wildlife Fund's Forest Hotspot Initiative as one of the ten most important forest
areas in the Mediterranean region.
These subterranean and terrestrial karst ecosystems are fragile, interconnected, and
dependent upon the maintenance of a delicate balance between relief, hydrology, climate
and vegetation. This balance is currently tenuous. The Croatia Biodiversity Strategic
Action Plan (BSAP), completed in 1999, identified the following threats to karst
ecosystems: habitat changes and fragmentation; water and air pollution; extensive
exploitation of natural resources; and introduction of foreign species. Obstacles faced by
the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP) in addressing
these threats include limited capacity for conservation management;  inadequate
integration of biodiversity conservation into physical plans and sectoral strategies; and
lack of environmental awareness regarding karst ecosystems and limited public
participation in the decision making process.
Although most of Croatia is karst, the Karst Ecosystem Conservation (KEC) Project will
focus on the 9500 square kilometers in the Croatian Highlands as this area has the highest
level of biodiversity and is often neglected as resources tend to be directed towards the
coast. About 8.2 % of Croatia's area is under some form of protection which is a high
percentage relative to the rest of Europe.  About 40% of the KEC project region is
under protected area status and includes four national parks and one nature park from
North to South being: Risnjak National Park, Plitvice National Park, and the Velebit
FIj~ .



Nature Park, which includes in its territories North Velebit Nature Park and Paklonica
National Park. The KEC project region is primanrly rural; over 50% is forested, and 65%
has few or no inhabitants. The project area includes two main municipalities, Gospic and
Ogulin, and five small towns and has a total population of approximately 60,000. The
main economic activities in the region are forestry, animal husbandry and tourism.
Agricultural and industrial activities are minimal. In the few areas with tourism, it is the
primary economic activity of the immediate area. The project region provides resources
to the coastal towns, and there are future plans to establish a triangle of highways, inside
the project area, connecting major Croatian cities.
The KEC Project area has experienced profound demographic changes over the past
several decades.  In Lika-Senj county, which includes Plitvice National Park, Velebit
Nature Park, North Velebit National Park, and comprises more than 80% of the KEC
region, there has been an extreme and steady depopulation in recent years due primarily
to the war and lack of economic opportunities. Population density in Lika-Senj is
extremely low at 15 person/square kilometer. The population that remains is very old,
and relies largely on pensions for support. The other of the two major counties in the
project, Gorski-Kotar District of Primorsko-Goranka county, in which Risnjak National
Park is located, has experienced the same depopulation for similar reasons although less
hard-hit by war impacts. While there is a very rich cultural heritage in Croatia, virtually
all of its manifestations in the KEC project region, e.g. heritage buildings, traditional
foods and beverages, wood arts and crafts, wool, textiles and clothing production are
disappearing.
The economic situation in the KEC project region is significantly depressed, even for
Croatia. Unemployment is estimated at over 40%.  To use one of the KEC project
counties as an example, in Lika-Senj, in the 1980s almost everyone had a paying job in
forestry, tourism, or government. To supplement their income in one of the state-
organized industries, many practiced traditional agriculture on their family farms. The
thriving Plitvice Lakes National Park that was attracting 750,000 visitors in the late 1980s
was an all-important source of direct employment. It also provided large guaranteed
markets for all the agricultural products people could produce. Tourism tended towards
"mass" tourism rather than "nature based" tourism, despite the fact that the Plitvice
tourist attractions, like much of Croatia's tourism, rely upon the integrity of its natural
resource base. In the 1990s, there was a major decline of all Lika-Senj's productive
sectors, loss of jobs, and out-migration of young people.  The war started and was
largely fought in the Plitvice National Park area.  Even with reconstruction, the area
remains depressed and has suffered from the national slump in tourism and other sector
activities.
There are some signs of economic recovery. In 2000 a total of 6.6million people visited
Croatia, and the Plitvice Lakes National Park received about 480,000 visitors. With this
recovery and the hopes of accelerated economic development, comes the increased
threats to biodiversity. The main conservation issue facing Croatia is the challenge of
balancing economic development of an impoverished region with conservation of
globally significant biodiversity. The KEC project aims to preempt the potential threats
to biodiversity conservation related to tourism and other economic development activities
in the region.
2



Project Region and Demonstration Sites: The focus of the project region is the
Croatian Highlands, which is one of the four major landscape units in the country and
includes the mountain corridor of the Dinarids between Slovenia and Bosnia
Herzegovina. The project region encompasses three counties, Primorje-Gorski Kotar,
Lika-Senj, and Zadar. The project area is primarily rural with the exception of the
coastal area of Paklonica National Park. Over 50% of the project region is forested, and
65% has few or no inhabitants. The project area includes several municipalities, Gospic
and Ogulin, and five small towns and has a total population of approximately 60,000.
The main economic activities in the region are forestry, animal husbandry and tourism.
Agricultural and industrial activities are minimal. In the few areas with tourism, it is the
primary economic activity of the immediate area. The project region provides resources
to the coastal towns for example it includes the watershed for the southern Dalmatian
coast. There are future plans to establish a triangle of highways, inside the project area,
connecting major Croatian cities.
Approximately 40% of the project region is designated as protected area. This includes
three long established national parks (Paklonica, Plitvice and Risnak), one new national
park (Velebit), and one nature park. Paklonica and Velebit National Parks are located
within the much larger Velebit Nature Park. Provisional selection of protected area sites
to be targeted under the project was based on agreed criteria, including: (i) biodiversity
of international value, (ii) presence of direct threats to biodiversity; (iii) representation of
the site and replicability of interventions in other karst areas; (iv) importance for overall
environmental stability; (v) importance for economic development; and (vi) expected
sustainability of intervention effects. Sites selected include Paklonica, Plitvice, Risnak,
and Velabit National Park, and more broadly Velabit Nature Park, in which Velabit
National Park is located and which accounts for almost half of all protected areas in
Croatia.
Project Obiective: The project development objective is to protect the biodiversity of
karst ecosystems in a way that is participatory, community-based, economically viable,
and integrated with the country's socioeconomic goals. The project will strengthen
institutional and technical capacity for biodiversity conservation; integrate biodiversity
conservation into management plans and sectoral strategies; improve management of
protected areas; promote entrepreneurial and tourism activities to support rural
revitalization and biodiversity conservation; and increase civil participation in decision
making processes.
Proiect Components
The three project components and their sub-components are given below. The only
component with potential negative environmental impacts is "Component Two: Establish
community based mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use
in the project region." Sub-components and activities under Component Two which
could have negative environmental impacts are in italics and described in more detail
later in this plan.
3



Component 1: Build national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support natural
resource management. (GEF US$1.09 million; GOC US$0.69 million)
(i) Strengthening of laws and regulatory framework ($0.02m). The project will finance a
review and/or revision of biodiversity-related regulations and sectoral strategies to
incorporate biodiversity conservation concerns. The project will finance training in the
use of the guidelines to staff from relevant government agencies, including the Ministry
of Forestry and Agriculture, Ministry of Tourism, Croatia Forests (HS), Croatia Waters
(HV); physical planners; and protected area staff; as well as NGOs and citizens.
(ii) Strengthening national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation ($0.33m). The
project will finance preparation of protected area management and planning guidelines
which include biodiversity concerns; guidelines for community and NGO participation
in protected area management; a protected area system market analysis, promotion and
marketing plan; a protected area financing strategy; and a pilot project on biodiversity
information dissemination. The project will develop and conduct a national ranger
training program.
(iii) Expansion of species and taxa under legal protection ($0.18m). Project preparation
studies found that there are two areas in the project region which could be eligible for
protected area status; Ogulin and the Kupa Valley. The project will finance feasibility
studies for these areas including an analysis of biodiversity in Ogulin and water
management issues related to biodiversity conservation; equipment for underwater
biodiversity monitoring; and revision of the list of taxa under legal protection in these
two areas.
(iv) Biodiversity inventory, mapping and monitoring ($1.06m). The project will finance
consultant services and equipment for inventory and mapping of the biodiversity priority
areas (identified by the BSAP and Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey); a specific
inventory of the biodiversity of caves in the project region and necessary equipment for
such; a study of cave hydrology in the project region; conduct a monitoring program for
large carnivores in the project region. The project will finance the development of a GIS
for the project region, the database, and training for staff in its use.
(v) Increasing public awareness and support for biodiversitv with active role of
NGOs ($0.19m). The project will finance development of a public awareness
strategy; development of a WEB site and TV spots on biodiversity conservation;
a guide to karst biodiversity; annual workshops/festivals on biodiversity
conservation; and preparation of a traveling exhibition on biodiversity and the
KEC Project.
Component 2: Establish community-based mechanisms for biodiversity
conservation and sustainable resource use in the karst region (GEF US$3.06 million;
GOC US$2.09 million; USG US$0.15 million)
4



The project will support measures to preserve the globally significant biodiversity in the
Karst region through community level activities and capacity building for protected area
management. Activities to meet this objective fall into three sub-components:
(i) Promotion of sustainable nature based tourism in karst region (US$0.21m). The
project will finance development of a local level tourism strategy which includes
determnination of the nature-based tourism potential in the region and economic
opportunities in tourism; a visitor management plan for protected area; and preparation
andfield works on the European-6 (E-6) hiking trail through the project region (E-6 is a
branch of a larger network of hiking trails which spans Europe).
(ii) Increased local public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation with
active role of NGOS (US$0.1 lm). The project will finance preparation of national park
promotion materials for park visitors, local population, and schools; preparation of field
guides for the project region; and fund a small grants program for NGO sponsored
activities related to public awareness.
(iii) Improving protected area management and services for biodiversity conservation
(US$4.1 2m). The project will finance activities which are common to all the protected
areas, and activities specific to the individual park's needs and aspirations. In each of the
five protected areas in the project region, the project will finance rehabilitation of
existing visitor structures,visitor roads, information kiosks, and research facilities (where
they already exist); a "people and parks" program, each to be designed specific to the
protected area and intended to ensure direct, community involvement in the decision
making process; field works, e.g. trails, signs; data acquisition, processing and
interpretation equipment, e.g. computers, GIS software; field equipment, e.g. field
telephone, binocular, staff uniforms, safety equipment; essentials for monitoring
programs; and staff development in skills such as interpretation, education, monitoring,
research. The project will finance distinct investments/activities in each of the five
protected areas, as follows:
*  Plitvice NP (US$0.52m): The project will finance preparation of a park
management plan; laboratory equipment for the research facility; and mowing
equipment.
*  Paklenica NP (US$0.39m): The project will finance the "Recovery of the
Eurasian Vulture (Gyps fulvus) Project" by providing equipment, education
material, and monitoring equipment.
*  Risnjak NP (US$0.44m): The project will finance rescue equipment, horses
and equipment; a traveling exhibit; camp site facilities.
*  North Velabit NP US$1.69m): The project will finance preparation of a park
management plan.
*  Velebit Nature Park (US$1.08m): The project will finance preparation of a
park management plan;    field vehicles; rehabilitation of existing and
construction of new mountain shelters and camp sites; and fire control
equipment.
5



(iv) Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program (CRRG) ($0.70) The goal of
this sub-component is to demonstrate of linkages between rural development and
biodiversity conservation. The main activity under this sub-component is the financing of
CRRG program (US$0.5 m) for communities within and adjacent to the project protected
areas. The CRRG Grants program will support projects that further the KEC project
development objective. The beneficiaries would include community based organizations,
NGOs, private entrepreneurs, and local residents. The grants will be available on a local
level to farmers, artisans, entrepreneurs, businesses, NGOs, etc. to fund activities which
support linkages between sustainable use of natural resources, economic development
(particularly nature based tourism) and biodiversity conservation. The grants will support
local communities to develop small businesses, such as tourism services, crafts, food
services; support demonstration projects such as traditional agricultural activities, forestry
and water resource related projects. This sub-component will also finance a local cattle
breeds protection program; and rehabilitation of the Gacka river springs facility which is
a cultural heritage and biodiversity conservation site.
(v) Regional cooperation program for karst ecosystem conservation (US$0.17m). Under
this sub-component partnerships with Croatia's neighbors, particularly Slovenia (Risnjak
and Kupa River Project), will be financed to encourage and support trans-boundary
solutions to biodiversity conservation. The project will finance the inventory and
monitoring of the biodiversity of springs, groundwater, caves, meadows, forests and cliffs
of the border region between Croatia and Slovenia in the Risnjak National Park region. It
will finance the preparation of the Risnjak National Park Management plan in
coordination with Slovenia. The project will finance a tourism marketing plan for the
Croatia/Slovenia border region; promotional materials; international workshops; and
participation of protected area staff in karst workshops. The project will finance study
tours to European countries including France; and participation in international and
regional workshops, training and conferences.
Component 3: Project Management and Monitoring (GEF US$ 0.91 million; GOC
US$0.41 million)
The MEPP will have overall responsibility for implementation of the five year project. A
national level project implementation unit (PIU) will be established in the MEPP
Division of General Environmental Policy. The PIU will build on the existence of the
KEC project preparation implementation unit. The PIU will be responsible for all
procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project as well as
oversee the work of consultants, organize seminars and training. The PIU will be
responsible for coordinating with other donors in the implementation of components
which will be supported through parallel and co-financing. It will also be responsible for
all reporting requirements to the Bank and the Government. It will be staffed by a project
director, procurement and disbursement specialist, financial specialist and an assistant,
funded under the project.
The project would also finance a local PIU office in Gospic, the county seat of Lika Senj.
The local PIU office, provided by the government, will be in the county department
office building which houses local offices for all sectors and for physical planning. This
will facilitate local level inter-sectoral coordination and planning.
6



The PIU would be assisted by an inter-agency Project Steering Committee established
during project preparation. The Steering Committee consists of representatives from
relevant Ministries and institutions, including Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Physical Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, State Department for Water, and
the directors of the protected areas covered by the project. The Steering Committee
would be responsible for providing project oversight advice, inter-ministerial
coordination, and assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation.
The Minister for Environmental Protection and Physical Planning will be chairman for
this committee.
Local advisory groups from each of the three main project regions (Plitvice, Paklenica,
and the Velebit), selected by, and comprised of, representatives of key stakeholder
groups, will also assist the PIU. Table 1 shows the structure of the PIU.
7



Table 1: Structure of the PIU
I     MEPP
Program Director
NAT'L PIU |                Local PIU (Gospic')|
Coordinator
X   Procurement
,  Finance                     Coordin ator   | 
Assistant                     Assistant
Env Spec     3              Env Specialist    m
Env Spec i    -v            Env Specialist
Project Design Rationale: The KEC project components were developed based on the
results of six background studies conducted under project preparation: Social
Assessment, Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey, Physical Plans Review, Land Use
Review, Public Awareness Study, and National Parks Assessment. The project has
been designed to address the threats and constraints to biodiversity conservation. The
project design was based on follows a rationale which considers the problems,
underlying causes, and desired changes in the status of biodiversity conservation. The
Project Design Rationale is found in Table 2:
8



Environmental Impacts of the project.
Of the three components, only Component 2 includes activities which may have negative
environmental impact.  Project activities which could have negative environmental
impacts are related to: (i) small civil works to improve protected area facilities and
management; and (ii) a small grants program (ceiling of $25,000@) to fund activities
which demonstrate linkages between sustainable natural resource use, tourism and
biodiversity conservation.
Civil Works:
Works to be financed by the grant are: building or rehabilitation of recreational and
interpretive trails; rehabilitation of existing structures for visitor centers, visitor roads in
parks, information & education, and management offices and research; rehabilitation of
the building at a local tourism attraction for cultural heritage; rehabilitation and
construction of camp sites, and travelers' way stations.  The potential negative
environmental impacts associated with rehabilitation of infrastructure are construction
related. Construction may contribute to air and water pollution from wastes through
increased traffic and visitor use. During rehabilitation, vegetation may be removed,
exposing the soil to rain, wind and other disturbances. Use of heavy machinery and
storage of materials may compact the soil making it less permeable. Rehabilitation
activities may result in increased noise and dirt during the construction phase. The
effects of construction works on the environment, biodiversity or public health will not be
significant.  Environmental impacts are only foreseen during the period of the initial
phase and will be localized. The project will ensure that adequate mitigation measures are
incorporated within the contract agreements so that all anticipated environmental impacts
will be avoided as much as possible or minimized where unavoidable.
CRRG program for rural revitalization.
Under the CRRG Program, small grants will be awarded to farmers, entrepreneurs,
NGOs, etc., on a competitive basis, for projects which will increase economic activity in
the project area whilst ensuring biodiversity conservation and environmental protection.
Small grants could include activities such as conservation of mountain meadows, organic
farming, handicrafts production, wood processing. Some of the proposed small grant
funded activities could have negative impacts on the environmnent.
Tourism
Although the project is designed specifically to preempt negative environmental impacts
which could accompany the predicted increase in tourism in the project region, in so far
as promotion of nature based tourism is included in the project, there could be negative
environmental impacts indirectly related to the KEC project. Potential consequences of
increased visitor use include trampling and subsequent loss of ground vegetation, shrubs,
tree seedlings, and erosion. Increased use of camping and trail facilities could result in
loss of vegetation cover, loss of tree regeneration, loss of species and alteration of
composition of vegetation, and soil changes including loss of organic matter, compaction
9



and erosion. There may be increased demands placed on water supplies and sewage
disposal facilities, increased road traffic and other additional effects including crowding,
littering, and threats to water quality, human health, wildlife and cultural resources .
Miti2ation:
Civil Works The project will ensure that infrastructure rehabilitation, visitor development
and management activities will not adversely impact upon the natural, historical and
cultural sites in the project area. Mitigation measures will constitute an integral part of
the contracts binding the contractors to carry out the environmental obligations during
rehabilitation and refurbishment works. Standard bidding documents will have
environmental precautionary clauses which would incorporate the following;
*  Preservation of the natural landscape as much as possible, by conducting
operations in a manner that will prevent any unnecessary destruction of the
natural surroundings,
*  Proper siting including laying out proper drainage and designating a place for
placing waste; introducing systems for work such as storage and waste collection;
and ensuring that everyone on site follows these systems,
*  Prevention of accidental spillage of contaminants, debris, or other pollutants,
especially into streams or underground water resources,
*  Minimization of air and water pollution by sprinkling or other methods.
Specific mitigation details for dust, noise, solid and liquid wastes, sanitation and impacts
on nature are included in table 3.
Siting of the new works, e.g. trails, camping sites, will avoid ecologically sensitive,
difficult or unsafe areas. The location of marked trails at project sites (national and
nature parks) will be chosen so as to limit future environmental impacts from visitors.
These will not be located inside the core protected areas. Their design, construction and
managcment will be in accordance with World Bank environmental guidelines and with
the Croatian EIA process, based on the "Decree on Environmental Impact Assessment,
1997."
Trails will be designed to take full advantage of its natural surroundings and to take into
consideration the amount of resource damage caused by trail use. The following factors
will be assessed in siting of all project activities.
* Location of ecologically sensitive areas, wildlife and plants,
* Soil characteristics, slope, topography, drainage and susceptibility to erosion,
* Access planning, and traffic management,
* Type of use (hiking, backpacking, trail biking etc.),
* Safety of visitors,
* Access requirements for fire management,
* Visitor needs and expectations,
* Ongoing cost of maintenance.
10



Adequate signing and mapping will be provided to keep trail users from wandering off
the trail and creating new ones. Regular checking and monitoring of trail condition will
be undertaken by park staff to ensure timely repair and maintenance work. The
ecotourism management plan for the park/area will ensure that long term planning will
take into consideration rubbish disposal, campsite facilities such as drinking water, toilets
etc. Sensitive landscapes and resources including bird and animal nesting sites or
colonies, rare plants, stream corridors and archeological sites will be protected through
controlled/restricted access, rehabilitation and education.
CRRGI grants program: The small grants program for rural revitalization will involve
small grant awards (ceiling to be determined during appraisal) to farmers, artisans,
entrepreneurs, NGOs, on a competitive basis, for projects that increase economic activity
in the project area whilst ensuring biodiversity conservation. Small grants could include
conservation measures for mountain meadows, handicrafts production,    cottage
industries, food and lodging services, sustainable agriculture demonstration practices, etc.
There will be several aspects of mitigation measures within the program operations. It
will be required that submitted proposals include a section on environmental impacts
which identifies positive and negative impacts. Selection criteria for proposals favor
projects which are environmentally sound with minimal potential for negative impacts.
Proposed projects which have a demonstrable positive environmental impact will receive
additional attention. It is expected that the projects proposed will largely be very small
works related to rehabilitation of facilities for tourist services and attractions; support to
cottage industries and handicrafts;  and demonstrations biodiversity conservation
measures. Categories of projects which are not eligible, e.g. road construction, will be
included in the operations manual.
Tourism: The project is specifically designed to balance the volume and type of tourist
activity with the sensitivities and carry capacities of the protected areas.  Success
depends upon informned site selection, sound design and operating guidelines.  The
project activities include incorporation of biodiversity conservation issues into physical
land use and protected area management plans. The project will finance a nature-based
tourism assessment and strategy which will include consideration ob biodiversity
conservation;  identification of  potential environmental impacts; alternatives and
mitigation measures
Environmental education. An important aspect of promoting environmental protection
and mitigating negative impacts involves increasing public awareness and appreciation of
Karst ecosystems, their vulnerability and the issues that affect resource management. To
this end, education and awareness programs will be established within the parks and will
include
(a) Information. To provide an overview of details of park facilities, activities, and
regulations
(b) Interpretation. To explain and enrich visitors appreciation of the natural systems and
processes and natural and cultural features, and



(c) Education. To educate the visitors through materials designed to facilitate learning,
while focusing on target groups (e.g. visitors with particular interests, school groups,
community groups)
Monitoring of conditions
Monitoring and evaluation will be part of the project implementation process to
determine significant changes in the landscape, natural resources or use patterns due to
the development of park and visitor facilities. This will be initiated under the umbrella of
the overall park monitoring programs and will involve initial data collection on a
specified set of parameters to establish the baseline condition; monitoring the changes
and trends in the indicators over time and; evaluating the significance of changes and
trends observed.
Each park will develop monitoring parameters specific to the park in the first year of
project implementation. These may include but are not limited to water quality, forest and
vegetation condition, consumption/harvest of forest products, biodiversity assessment,
impacted campsite monitoring, and trail condition monitoring. The last two will be
focused on trails that contain historic or natural features, and campsites that receive
moderate to high use by visitors. Campsite assessments will be made during peak visitor
season, to determine visitor use trends and patterns, and the results of these assessments
will be used to make management decisions. Trail condition surveys will be conducted in
conjunction with routine trail maintenance and rehabilitation trips. The parks will also
monitor visitor perception and use and their impacts. Specific biological indicators to be
included in the monitoring program will be defined in year one of the project and
following rehabilitation or restoration work, trails conditions will be monitored on a
monthly basis. Details of monitoring are specified in table 2.
12



Table3. General potential Environmental Impacts and mitigation measures
Acthit)            Potential        Nlitigating Mleasure                                      Costs              Institutional     Comments
impacts/ Issues                                                                                Responsibility
Rehabilitation of  Increase in dust  The following measures will be included as a requirement and                contrac           Will be specified
administrative,    and noise       listed in the bidding document                                                tor               in the bidding
research and visitor                Dust from the transporting and handling of construction works will                             document
centers, and                        be minimized by water and other means such as enclosure of
Interpretative                      construction sites. To reduce noise, construction will be restricted
facilities                          during certain hours
Contamination    All debris, construction and wood waste will be stored within the
from             work site. Wood waste will be stored separately and arranged to be
Construction     recycled instead of disposing it. Open burning and illegal dumping
waste, e.g. trails  will not be permitted. Proper sites for earth /clay and sand disposal
will be determined and prior approval from relevant authority for
disposal will be obtained. Stock piling construction debris on site
will be avoided and waste will be disposed of on an regular basis at
the authorized government dumping ground.. Debris chutes will be
provided to transfer debris efficiently from higher floors to the
ground floor to prevent dust nuisance.
Increased health  The contractor's will be located so as to preserve the natural
risks            environment (such as trees and other vegetation) to the maximum
from unsanitary  extent possible.
conditions
13



Activity            Potential         Nlitigating Nleasure                                          Costs               Institutional       Comments
impacts/ Issues   The folloiwing measures will be included as a requirement and                      Responsibility
listed in the bidding document
Trails, public      Impacts on fauna  New campsites selection will be based on a set of criteria that
facilities such as  and flora,        includes but is not restricted to location, visitor use, site
toilets, check                        characteristics such as habitat type/cultural significance, slope and
points, signposts                     expansion potential.
and picnic tables
soil erosion and  New trail design will consider soil characteristics, slope,
changes in water  topography, drainage and susceptibility to erosion, access planning,
runoff            and traffic management, type of use (hiking, backpacking, trail
biking etc.), safety of visitors, access requirements for fire
management, visitor needs and expectations, location of
ecologically sensitive areas, wildlife and plants and ongoing cost of
maintenance.
Degradation of    Suitable sites will also be identified for the installation of
site conditions   signboards that indicate trail names, landmarks and points of
by crowding,      interest, educational information, warnings, distances, public
littering and     facilities etc. Garbage receptacles will be placed in strategic points
destruction of    (e.g. campsite, stop-over/rest areas, jump-off and arrival points)
trails
Visitor education about park rules and regulations on garbage
control
Disturbance of    Place control measures like bars and fences in sensitive areas
Wildlife          Put up signs to remind visitors of wildlife sensitivity.
Damage to         Set-up boardwalks and handrails to prevent people from veering off
limestone         the established lane.
formation         Discourage touching of limestone formation.
Need to include a table for impacts of the 3 demonstration projects, the springs project, and the small grants program.
14



Table 4: Monitoring plan
Phase        Whal parameter    Where           How is theparameter to be     When                        Why is the           Responsibility
is to be         is the          monitoredl t,pe of monitoring  Is the parameter to be      parameter to be
monitored?        parameter to   equipment?                    monitored-frequeniy of       monitored?
he monitored                                 measurement ?
Construction  Fust             At all          Site supervision and inspection  Weekly visits to the field site  To reduce the  Ministry of
phase        Noise             construction    by staff as well as feedback                               air/water pollution  Environment staff
Solid wastes      sites          from local residents                                       hazards to people as
Soil compaction,                                                                            well as preserve the  Park staff is it is a
water runoff                                                                                natural environment  park facility
During       Trail conditions  National park   Using trail condition surveys  Monthly park patrolling     To minimize         Park staff
project       in parks         to be           (descriptions) by park staff                               disturbance to the
implementati                   determined                                                                 natural environment
on                                                                                                        and steer visitors
away from sensitive
areas
During        Campsite         At all          Using checklists to assess daily  Ongoing as part of park guards  To ensure that  Park staff
project       condition such as  campsites in  campsite conditions, including  duties                     existing facilities are
implementati litter and waste  selected        garbage accumulated and toilet                             used correctly and
on           disposal,         national parks  facilities.                                                maintained properly
sanitation,                                                                                 to reduce risks of
pollution
During       Number of         At designated   Visitor register books        Ongoing as part of park guards  To assess trends in  Park staff
project       visitors, their  national parks  maintained at entry points in  duties                      visitor use
implementati impacts and       to be           the park/ fees collected.                                  For effective
on           perceptions       determined                                                                 management
Observation of visitors use of                             purposes
parks resources
15



Phase        Whatparameter    Where           How is the parameter to be   When                        Why is the         Responsibility
is to be         is the          monitored/type of monitoring  Is the parameter to be     parameter to be
monitored?       parameter to    equipment?                   monitored-frequenct of      monitored?
be monitored                                measuremenr ?
During       Water quality    At selected     Measuring biological         As part of tourism impact   To monitor water   Park staff
project      monitoring       creeks and      contaminants                 monitoring program          pollution
implementati                  streams in     (such as Biological Oxygen
on                            national parks  Demand, coliform bacteria),
physical contaminants (such as
silt content )and chemical
contamination
During       Historical sites  Historical sites  Observations of visitor patterns  Weekly visit to the sites or  To protect the  Park staff
project      monitoring       within selected  and use of historical sites,  ongoing as part of park guards  historical sites
implementati                  national parks                               duties
on
During       Forest and       At selected     Using indicator species,     Biannual surveys of         Ensure conservation  Park staff
project      vegetation       national parks  percentage of forest and ground  biodiversity status or as part of  of natural
implementati condition                        cover, density etc.          management plan             biodiversity in the
on                                                                        implementation               national parks
16



Institutional arrangements
The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning will have overall
responsibility for project implementation. The PIU arrangements have been previously
described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Required monitoring programs will
be established to identify and measure specific parameter and monitoring patterns and
changes in the different components of the natural systems that represent the Karst
ecosystem. Thus any impacts from project activities can be monitored.
Within each park, staff will be responsible for establishing a baseline for data and a
regular monitoring program and data collection. The grant will finance equipment and
goods, as needed, to conduct a thorough monitoring program.     Data collected from
monitoring will be analyzed and used by park management for decision making or to
target and shape mitigation efforts where necessary. It could also be used for informing
and educating staff, the public and local communities.
The national parks will also be required to submit annual monitoring reports to the PIU
for evaluation. The outputs of the monitoring programs will be used by the Ministry of
Environment to develop and implement management policies, strategies and actions that
permnit the recreational use of parks without compromising their ecological and aesthetic
integrity.
For the rehabilitation works regular inspection of the sites will be conducted by the park
management to oversee and monitor the compliance of environmental procedures and
requirements during construction. In case of violations of the guidelines, the contractor
will be held fully responsible and furthermore required to carrying out remedial action in
the area.
Table 5: Data collection, analysis and submission for monitoring for protected
Areas (specific species to be monitored will be determined during appraisal)
Type of data  Collection  Analysis  Preparation  Submission of  Frequency  Final authority
of reports reot
Indicator  Park field  Park staff  Park staff  MEPP - Nature  Quarterly  MEPP
species,   staff,                          Protection
Water quality, researchers,                Division
Campsite data
Visitor data
Forest cover                              PIU
Trail condition
Public Consultation Process
The project aims to promote greater public awareness of the role of people's participation
and people's organizations in conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. A
variety of techniques was utilized during preparation for public consultation including
site visits to protected areas, communities; public meetings and a series of national level
workshops to give an overview of the project and its activities. A brochure describing
the project was prepared, distributed widely in the project region, and served as a basis
17



for seven local level discussions regarding the draft design.  A social and rural
assessment was conducted with field work occurring from June 26 - August, 15, 2000.
A goal of the KEC project is to allow people living within the vicinity of the protected
areas to contribute to the sustainability of the protected area in terms of its natural
resources base, its potential for tourism, as well as to derive economic benefits from the
sustainable use of natural resources.
Future consultation. In order to successfully balance the recreational use of the park
with its conservation, park managers and Ministry of Environment staff project
implementation team will continue to provide support to the local communities and be
engaged in close consultation with the public and interest groups at the local, district
level and national level. These meetings will be focused on ensuring that people most
affected by the project, and affecting the implementation of the project activities are
made aware of the mitigation measures to be implemented. Local level project advisory
boards will be formed in each protected area region under the project whose duties will
include review of the small grants projects which will occur in their region as well as the
impacts of the demonstration projects.  This will ensure local level review of the
environmental impacts of any proposed project activities.
18



Table 1:
Rationale for project design
Problems           Causes              Desired Changes in the Status Associated KEC Project Components/sub-
of Biodiversity             components/activities
Conservation (Solutions)
1. Insufficient                                                    1. Strengthening national capacity to
capacity to                                                     conserve biodiversity and support
conserve                                                        sustainable resource use
biodiversity in
karst region
across the
country
1.1 Weak legal,     1. I Harmonization of       1.1 Legal and regulatory
regulatory, and       biodiversity related       framework review and
institutional basis  regulation with BC          subsequent revisions to
for karst BC          objectives. Incorporation  incorporate
of BC concerns in non-BC   biodiversity
sector regulations and     conservation     and
legislation                sustainable  use  of
natural resources (Law
on            Nature
Conservation and other
sectoral laws).
Review of and amendments to the
biodiversity-related regulation,
intersectoral harmonisation and
development of co-ordinating
mechanisms and decision-making
decentralisation.
1.2 No capacity to  1.2 Improved BC in physical,  1.2 Strengthen the national capacity to
ensure BC in land   PA planning and              ensure biodiversity conservation
use and PA           management
planning
1 .2.a. No central   1 .2.a. Improved information  1 .2.a. Pilot project on biodiversity
repository for BC    dissemination               information dissemination - web site on
information to                                   biodiversity
guide planning
process & decision
making
1.2.b. No capacity to  1.2.bGuidelines for      1.2.b Biodiversity conservation and soil
incorporate BC       incorporation of BC     protection guidelines and training for land-
into planning        concerns used.          use and sectoral planning
processes
1.2.c. Inadequate   1.2.c Local level involvement  1.2.c. Preparation of guidelines for local and
involvement of      in PA and BC decision        NGO participation in protected area
locals and NGOs     making                       management planning
19



Problems           Causes              Desired Chanmes in the Status Associated KEC Project Components/sub-
of Biodiversity             components/activities
Conservation (Solutions)
in PA management
1.2.d. No strategy for  1.2.d. Decision making guided  1.2.d. PA system market analysis, promotion
PA management       by analysis and strategic    and marketing plan
related to BC       planning
1.2.e. Weak PA       1.2.e. PA managers have    1.2.e Development and implementation of
management          training and resources   PA ranger training programmes
capacity            adequate to do their job
1.3 Discrepancy      1.3New PAs established as  1.3. Expansion of species and taxa under
between PAs and      appropriate based on M&E    legal protection
protected species    of region                1 .3.a. Assessment of Ogulin PA
establishment
1.3.b. Assessment of the Kupa Valley PA
establishment
1.3.c. Revision of list of taxa under
protection by law
1 .3.d. Designate the network of highly
significant biodiversity hot spots
1.3.e. Analysis of Ogulin biodiversity and
water management issues
1.3.f. Equipment for underwater monitoring
in Ogulin
1.4. Insufficient    1.4 Improved M&E of        1.4 Biodiversity inventory, mapping and
scientific data to  biodiversity in karst        monitoring
identify current    ecosystems                1 .4.a. Inventory and mapping of the
status or trends in                          biodiversity components for priority areas*
biodiversity                                 (flora and fauna, karst biotopes, genetic
diversity of target species, land cover
mapping according to CORINE
nomenclature)
1 .4.b. Monitoring of the biodiversity
components for project region (populations
of target threatened species, selected karst
biotopes)
1.4.c. Conduct monitoring programs for
large carnivores in migration corridors
1.4.d. Inventory of the caves and related
hydrogeological data
1.4.e. Development of karst ecosystem
biodiversity GIS and data base and train staff
1.4.f. purchase GIS equipment
1.5 Lack of public  1.5 Strong public support of  1.5 Increased public awareness and
awareness and       BC. Increased
______.._____J________________V        support_for_biodiversity_conservation
20



Problems           Causes              Desired Chan2es in the Status Associated KEC Project Components/sub-
of Biodiversitv             components/activities
Conservation (Solutions)
support for BC       understanding of karst      with active role of NGOs
ecology                  1.5.a. Development of a public awareness
strategy
1 .5.b. Development and funding of WEB
site and series of TV spots
1.5.c. Development and funding of a WEB
site and a serial of TV-spots on the
importance and values of karst biodiversity
1.5.d. Annual workshops/festivals on
biodiversity in local county centers
1 .5.e. Preparation of travelling exhibition on
biodiversity and KEC project
2. Insufficient    2. No perceived      2. KEC proposed initiatives to  2. Establish community-based
measures for    benefits for locals  support economic            mechanisms for biodiversity conservation
BC in karstic   from BC. Lack of     development in project region  and sustainable resource use in the karst
region of most  participatory, local  & develop linkages between  region
global          level approaches to  sustainable natural resource
significance-    BC. No involvement  use, tourism and BC
Dinarids         of local communities
in PA management.
Economically
depressed region.
2.1 Tourism industry  2.1 Develop tourism potential  2.1 Increase nature based tourism in
collapsed after the  of KEC region in a sustainable 2.1jIncregion
war. Potential and   manner ensuring benefits   project region
approaches for nature  reach the local commnunities  2. L.a. Conduct tourism and local business
tourism unknown .    and biodiversity is conserved  tourism development strategy
No existing                                     2. Lb. Develop local tourism capacity
cooperation between
tourism industry and                            2.1 .c. Preparatory and field works on
BC                                              mountaineering path in Gorski Kotar
2.2 Lack of          2.2 Local residents and NGOs  2.2 Increased local public awareness and
knowledge on local   advocate and promote BC    support for BC with  awaroless nd
level of karst
biodiversity values                             2.2.a. Prepare park promotional
materials/brochures for park visitors and
local populations
2.2.b. Prepare biodiversity field guides for
project region
2.2.c. NGOs implement educational public
awareness and educational activities (small
grant program)
2.3 Weak PA and      have infrastructure,       2.3 Improve Protected Area management
21



Problems           Causes              Desired Changes in the Status Associated KEC Project Components/sub-
of Biodiversitv             components/activities
Conservation (Solutions)
services for BC.    equipment, skills, &
Insufficient capacity  community involvement
and materials for   necessary for effective
local staff to manage  management.              2.3ca. NP Plihice Lakes Planning &
Pas. Weak M&E of                                 . .s.
BC. Local people not  *  Each PA in the KEC     Management System
involved in PA          region has a management  2.3.a.i.. Develop staff skills
management              plan in place and enforced 2.3.a.i. (i) training in interpretation and
that includes BC concems education
*   Staff have skills,     2.3.a.i. (ii) Develop and implement "People
equipment to do their  and Park's community participation program
jobs.                   2.3.a.i (iii) training in biodiversity
. Local communities are    monitoring best practices
involved in decision   2.3.a.i. (iv) research exchange programs
making for PA & BC     2.3.a.ii. Establish planning and managements
*   Trained PA staff and   systems
necessary materials for  2.3.a. ii.(i) development park management
educational, promotional,  plan
and interpretative     2.3.a.ii (ii) establish biodiversity research
activities.            and monitoring facility (equipment & M&E
*   M&E programs for       program)
biodiversity in place in  2.3.a.ii.(iii) conduct research & monitoring
all PAs.               program
2.3.a.ii (iv). Establish biodiversity
information systems (hardware and GIS
software, GIS training)
2.3.b NP Paklonica - Improved
interpretation facilities and skills
development
2.3.b.i Improved interpretation and education
facilities - rehabilitate visitor center
2.3.b.ii. Provide equipment
2.3.b.iii. Develop staff skills (same as
Plitvice)
2.3.b.iv Recovery of Eurasian Vulture
program- equipment
2.3.c NP Risnjak - Improved interpretation
and Monitoring facilities and skills
development
2.3.c.i Improve visitor center interpretation
and education facilities - equipment
2.3.c.ii Improve biodiversity management
2.3.c. ii (i)field equipment
2.3.c.ii (ii) establish biodiversity information
& monitoring facility - equipment & training
22



Problems           Causes               Desired Changes in the Status Associated KEC Project Components/sub-
of Biodiversity              components/activities
Conservation (Solutions)
2.3.c.iii Develop staff skills (same as NP
Plitvice)
2.3.c.iv Improve protected area management
- equipment for visitor center, field facilities,
monitoring, etc.
2.3.d NP Northern Velebit - Planning and
Management system
2.3.d.i Establish administrative structure
2.3.d.i (i) refurbish building for visitor center
2.3.d.i (ii) build field works, trails, signs, etc.
2.3.d.i (iii) provide vehicles
2.3.d I (iv) visitor center & field equipment
2.3.d.i (v) office technical equipment
2.3.d. ii Develop staff skills (same as
Plitvice)
2.3.d.iii Establish planning and management
systems
2.3.d. iii (i) prepare park management plan
2.3.d. iii (ii) establish biodiversity M&E
system
2.3.d. iv Improve protected area
management- provide field equipment
2.3.e PN Velebit Planning & Management
2.3.e.i Establish management structure
2.3.e.i (i) rehabilitate visitors center
2.3.e.i (ii) construct field works
2.3.e I (iii) purchase vehicle
2.3.e.i (iv) provide visitor center & field
equipment
2.3.e I (v) provide office technology
2.3.e.ii Develop staff skills (same as Plitvice)
2.3.e iii Establish planning & Management
systems
2.3.e.iii (i) develop park management plan
2.3.e.iii (ii) establish biodiversity
information center - equipment, GIS
2.3.e.iv Improve protected area management
equipment, mountain shelters, camp sites,
fire control equipment
23



Problems          Causes               Desired Changes in the Status Associated KEC Proiect Components/sub-
of Biodiversity             components/activities
Conservation (Solutions)
2.4. Lack of        2.4 KEC project initiatives to
knowlede/of &  upport conomi           2.4 Demonstration of linkages between
knowledge/of &      support economic           rrldvlpet&R
opportunities/for   development in the KEC     rural development & BC
sustainable resource  project region and develop
use & BC activities.  linkages between sustainable  2.4.a. Rural 1 revitalisation small grants
No perceived        resource use, nature based  program (conservation of mountain
linkages between    tourism and BC.            meadows, organic farming, handicrafts
economic benefits for                          production, wood processing, etc.)
stakeholders and        *  Demonstrate to local  2.4.b. Implementation of Gacka river
conservation               population economnic  springs area protection and revitalization of
priorities.Loss of         benefits of BC and  cultural heritage (mills)
natural & cultural         sustainable NR use  2.4.c.Project for protection of local cattle
heritage.                                      breeds
* Gacka River Springs
cultural heritage site
restored to operation.
* Local cattle breeds
preserved
2.5 Minimal trans-  2.5 New mechanisms for     2.5 Regional Cooperation Programme for
boundary            trans-boundary programming;   Karst Ecosystem Conservation
cooperation. Little  and regional & intemational  (exchange of information, tourism
regional or         cooperation for BC in karst   promotion and partnerships with other
international level  regions                      karst regions)
planning,                                      2.5.a. Inventory & monitoring of biodiversity
management or                                  between Croatia & Slovenia
exchange of ideas                              2.5.b. Implement trans-boundary
management plan for PA shared by Croatia
& Slovenia
2.5.c. joint slovenia/croatia tourism
marketing plan
2.5.d. promotional materials for
Croatian/Slovenia park system
2.5.e. international workshops
2.5.f. attend regional karst BC conferences
2.5.g. Partnership program
3. 0 Project Management
24



