)ocument of
The World Bank
Report No: 24024 HR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.100 MILLION (US$5.07 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR
KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
April 25, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Sector Unit
Croatia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 05/30/94)
Currency Unit = Kuna
1 Kuna = US$0.12
US$1 = 8.31 Kuna
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 1
ABIBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSAP       Biodiversity ,.  Actioni Plan     MEPP        Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical
Planning
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy       MPBH        Ministry of Physical Planning. Building and H, ,in 2
CITES      Convention on Inte.iiational Trade in  NCB    National Competitive Bidding
Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna
DO        Development .>jecu e               NBF         Not Bank Financed
EA         Environmental Assessment          NEAP        National Environmental Action Plan
ECSSD      Environmentally and Socially      NGO         Non Governmental Organization
Sustainable Sector Urnit
ESR        Eastem Slavonia Reconstruction Project  NS    National Shopping
FMS        Financial Management System       PCD         Project Concept Document
GEF        Global Environmental Facility     PIP         Project Implementation Plan
GIS        Geographic Information System     PIU         Project Implementation Unit
IBRD       Intemnational Bank for Reconstuction  PMR     Project Management Report/Project Management
and Development                               Reporting
ICB        International Competitive Bidding  PNP        Plitvice National Park
ICR        Implementation Completion Report  QBS         Quality-based Selection
IDA        International Development Association  QCBS   Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
IDF        International Development Fund    REC         Regional Enviromnental Center for Central and
Eastern Europe
IFC        International Finance Corporation  SA         Special Account
IP        Implementation Progress            SBCQ        Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications
IS        Intemational S'rrpri               SFB         Selection under a Fixed Budget
KECP       Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project  TA      Technical Assistance
LACI       Loan Administration Change Initiative  TOR    Ternis of Reference
LCS        Least Cost Selection              UNESCO      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
M&E        Evaluation and Monitoring         USAID       United States Agency for International Development
METAP      Mediterranean Technical Assistance  WWF       World Wildlife Fund
Program
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
C;t. Manager/Director:      Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director.   Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Tearn Leader/Task Manager:   Rita Klees



CROATIA
KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
la. Global Operational Strategy/Program objective addressed by the Project             2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  8
4. Description of the Project Region                                                    9
C. Project Description Sumnary
1. Project components                                                                 12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       16
3. Benefits and target population                                                      16
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                21
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                     22
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                             22
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Econornic                                                                          22
2. Financial                                                                           23
3. Technical                                                                           23
4. Institutional                                                                       24
5. Environmental                                                                       25
6. Social                                                                              26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 29



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      30
2. Critical risks                                                                      31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      32
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             32
2. Other                                                                               32
H. Readiness for Inplementation                                                          32
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          34
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    37
Anmex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         48
Annex 4: Incremental Cost and Global Environmental Benefits                              49
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            69
Annex 11: Social Assessment and Participation Approach                                   71
Annex 12: Financial Management System Assessment                                         89
MAP(S)
IBRD-3 1890



CROATIA
KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: April 25, 2002                              Team Leader: Rita Klees
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink              Sector Director: Laura Tuck
Project ID: P042014                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                     Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[   - Loan  [1 Credit    [X] Grant    [ I Guarantee    [1 Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $5.07 million
Financing Plan (USSn):   Source                             Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             3.30           0.00          3.30
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    3.84           1.24          5.07
Total:                                                         7.13           1.24          8.37
BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF CROATIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND PHYSICAL PLANNING
Hvrore Glavac
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
- --FY-     _2003 -       200-- _    2005       0         2007.
Annual      0.96      1.75       1.26      0.71       0.39
Cumulative     0.96      2.71       3.97       4.68      5.07
Project implementation period: June 2002-2007
OMS PAD Fam- P- M-h. MM/O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is that local residents, tourists and other visitors to participating national
parks and other protected areas in the karst region refrain from practices identified as detrimental to
biodiversity conservation and adopt recommended behaviors that preserve and protect the unique features
of the karst enviromnent. In support of this objective, the project will assist the Government of Croatia to
strengthen institutional and technical capacity for biodiversity conservation, integrate biodiversity
conservation into physical planning and sectoral strategies, strengthen management of protected areas, and
promote entrepreneurial and tourism activities which support sustainable natural resource use and
conservation of the karst ecosystem within the Dinarid Mountain Range.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key indicators of project success are:
*      Stable or increasing number of 2-3 indicator species in Croatia Karst Ecosystem Conservation
(KEC) project region
*      Increased public knowledge of Croatian karst ecosystems, species, and habitats and impacts of
behavior on biodiversity
•      Decreased number of human behaviors destructive to biodiversity in protected areas
*      Users of protected areas in the KEC region increasingly satisfied with park management services
*      Increased number of, and income of, entrepreneurs in the KEC project region
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19280HR Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/11/99
The CAS indicates that to encourage private sector development, Croatia needs to develop and maintain its
infrastructure and protect its environment. The CAS also indicates that since a key sector of Croatia's
economic growth is tourism, most of which is nature based, Croatia's natural resource base needs to be
carefully preserved. In support of these objectives the CAS recommends that the Bank help the
govermnent obtain a GEF grant for environmental protection in one of the country's major tourist
destinations, Plitvice Lakes National Park (NP).
High unemployment (19%) is identified in the CAS as one of Croatia's major economic problems.
Containing poverty is one of the CAS' four key policy objectives. Unemployment in the project region is
among the highest in the country at about 40%.  By supporting local level, rural initiatives related to
sustainable natural resource use and tourism, the project aims to increase economic development in the
project region while also supporting biodiversity.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The project's global objective is to conserve biological diversity and ecological integrity of the karst
ecosystems in Croatia particularly in the Dinarid mountain range which contains an estimated 8000 caves -
among the deepest and most extensive in the world. Both the Croatian National Biodiversity Strategic
Action Plan (BSAP) and the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) identify karst ecosystems as the
top priority for biodiversity conservation.
-2 -



Croatia ratified the convention on Biological Diversity on October 7, 1996. The Parliament of Croatia
endorsed the BSAP on June 8, 1998. The project will implement selected priority actions outlined in the
BSAP including: (i) preservation of the biological and landscape diversity of the karst region as an area of
global value; (ii) improved inventory and monitoring of biodiversity; (iii) raising of public awareness; and
(iv) participation in regional efforts to manage biodiversity.
The project supports the objectives of the GEF Biodiversity Operational Programs for coastal, marine and
freshwater ecosystems (OP2), mountain ecosystems (OP4) and forest ecosystems (OP3). Activities will
concentrate on the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources of international import in the karst
region of Croatia. The project responds to Council of the Parties IJR guidance by: (i) promoting in-situ
conservation of biodiversity in protected areas of biological and ecological interest; (ii) building capacity,
especially for NGOs; and (iii) increasing public awareness of nature protection.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Croatia is endowed with internationally recognized karst ecosystem assets which are in need of
conservation. The main issue facing Croatia is the challenge of balancing economic development of an
impoverished region with conservation of globally significant natural resources. Accelerated economic
development, including that of the tourism industry, in the absence of a strong national and local level
capacity to protect natural resources could damage Croatia's ability to safeguard its biodiversity. The
government must cope with scarce resources and competing interests in dealing with the following
obstacles: (i) insufficient capacity within the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning
(MEPP) to conserve biodiversity in the karst region; (ii) lack of collaboration between sectors to
sufficiently incorporate biodiversity conservation into physical planning and sectoral strategies, and (iii) a
general lack of environmental awareness regarding karst ecosystems; and (iv) a tradition of limited public
participation in the decision making process.
Global Significance of the Croatian Karst Ecosystem Croatia enjoys an unusually rich biodiversity of
global significance due to its geography, between the Mediterranean and Central-European continental
climatic regions, and its geology, which is predominantly karst. The term "karst" originated in Croatia and
is applied to a specific landscape and morphology characterized by the presence of limestone or other
soluble rocks, where drainage has been largely diverted into subterranean routes.  Croatian karst
ecosystems host 3,500 species of flora (283 endemic), 12 species of amphibians, 36 species of reptiles, 200
species of resident birds, 79 species of mammals, and 64 species of freshwater fish (11 endemic). Much of
Croatia is karstic. The project selected for its focus the karst region located within the Dinarid Mountain
range, which runs through Croatia from Slovenia to Bosnia. The project region was selected because its
biodiversity is the most globally significant. The Dinarids include hundreds of sinkholes, chasms,
underground streams, and caves. Its estimated 8,000 caves are among the deepest and most extensive in
the world and render the region a global hot-spot of subterranean biodiversity. These subterranean karst
habitats support an ever increasing list of newly discovered endemic troglodytic (eyeless and adapted for an
entirely subterranean existence) species and families. These include one new species, genus and family of
leech Croatobranchus mestrovi, which was found in a 1300 meter deep cave in the Velebit mountain in
1994. Additional unique species found in Croatian karst ecosystems are the only known cave sponge, cave
clam, and cave polychaete worm.
Croatia is famous for its karst freshwater ecosystems which include travertine/tuffa-building communities
of micro-organisms. The travertine barriers, some estimated to be over 40,000 years old, created by these
communities have led to the spectacular lakes and waterfalls now protected within two national parks, one
of which is included in the KEC project, Plitvice Lakes National Park.
- 3 -



Large areas of the Dinarids, particularly in the Velebit Mountains, are densely covered by forest
communities of beech, fir, spruce and black pine, a relict alpine sub-species found only in the Velebit area.
The Karst region contains the largest part of unfragmented forest in Croatia (almost 50% of forests), the
integrity of which is evidenced by the presence of viable populations of large carnivores (wolf, brown bear,
and lynx). The global significance of Croatia's karst ecosystem is evidenced by the international
recognition it has received. Plitvice Lakes National Park is on the UNESCO's World List of Natural and
Cultural Heritage. The Velebit Mountain Range is part of the UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere
Program, and has been identified by the WWF's Forest Hot-spot Initiative as one of the ten most important
forest areas in the Mediterranean region.
Threats to Karst Biodiversity. The impacts of threats to the karst ecosystem's biodiversity, with the
exception of eutrophication in the surface waters of Plitvice Lakes National Park, have not been
scientifically docurnented to date, but are believed to be significant. The Biodiversity Strategic Action
Plan (BSAP) and Nation Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) note that the lack of systematic inventory and
monitoring of the ecosystem and species status has resulted in an insufficient basis for determining the
exact nature and magnitude of threats to biodiversity. However, in light of observed habitat changes and
fragmentation; water and air pollution; extensive exploitation of natural resources; and introduction of
foreign species experienced in the project region, all threats to biodiversity, the BSAP assumes that the
karst ecosystem biodiversity is declining. Both the subterranean and terrestrial karst ecosystems are
fragile, interconnected, and dependent upon the maintenance of a delicate balance between relief,
hydrology, climate and vegetation. The surface ecosystems of predominantly natural forest and traditional
pastoral land generally serve to buffer the subterranean ecosystems but the effectiveness of this function
can be significantly reduced by subtle changes in land-use and vegetation cover. For instance, land-use
changes can lead to the rapid influx of water in all parts of a karst cave system, resulting in significant
changes in the subterranean ecosystems. In recent years, these threats have been partially averted by
reduced economic activity, particularly in tourism and agriculture, during and after the war (1991-95).
Today, post-war Croatia is on a fast track of economic development, spurred, in part, by a new government
(February 2000) and the opening of EU accession discussions. Tourism, once a mainstay of Croatian
economy, has traditionally been carried out on a "mass tourism" basis, as opposed to "nature-based
tourism".  As the tourism industry rebounds it could have  serious implications for biodiversity
conservation.  Other sector development projects which traditionally hurt biodiversity, e.g. roads,
hydropower, are also proposed for the project region.
Obstacles to Biodiversity Conservation
Limited capacity for conservation management. The primary form of biodiversity conservation in Croatia
is its protected area system. About 8.2 % of Croatia's area is under some form of protection. There are
eight types of protected areas in the country with national parks (8) and nature parks (10) being the highest
level of protection. National and nature parks are managed by the state; other protected areas are the
responsibility of the counties within which they lie. Biodiversity conservation is governed by the Law on
Nature Protection, noted by the Croatia Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan (BSAP) to be inadequate for
purposes of biodiversity conservation and now under revision. Parks are financed by a combination of
self-generated revenues, generally from visitor fees, and a minimal allocation from the MEPP budget. The
designation of newly protected areas has outpaced the capacity for their management both in terms of
human and financial resources. Overall, staffing is inadequate particularly on the local level. The Ministry
of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP) faces serious challenges managing the growing
number of protected areas while also dealing with growing economic pressures. MEPP nature protection
division currently has fourteen staff. The nature protection inspection department has four staff. MEPP
- 4 -



has no staff on the county level in the project region and only four in the entire country. Some counties
have taken the initiative to hire environmental specialists (Primorsko-Goranka), and it is in these counties
where one can see best practice of incorporating biodiversity conservation concerns into physical and
protected area plans.  Capacity for biodiversity conservation is also limited by inadequate quality and
quantity of data, as previously mentioned. The lack of a systematic inventory and monitoring of the
ecosystem and species status has resulted in an inability to accurately identify trends and pattems in
biodiversity and their impacts. This also limits MEPP's ability to ensure appropriate conservation
measures. For the scientific information that does exist, no one institution is responsible for collation,
analysis, processing or dissemination of the karst biodiversity studies that have been conducted by
museums, university faculties, NGOs, and others. Thus decision making and analysis are often based on
fragmented and unrelated results of specific scientific research.
Inadequate integration of biodiversitv conservation into physical plans and sectoral stratezies
Physical planning. Land use plans in Croatia are referred to as "physical plans." Physical plans are
governed by the "Law of Physical Planning"(1994, amended in 1998). Physical plans define: natural,
cultural or other characteristics meriting special consideration; the basic organization of the space;
measures of use; development and protection of the area, with all activities that have priority; measures for
improvements and protection of environment; and if needed, the contents of more detailed, physical
development plans for narrower areas. Croatia has a national Physical Planning Strategy; county level
physical plans; physical plans for areas with particular features (e.g. Velebit Mountain), and protected area
physical plans. Responsibility for all types of physical planning falls under the MEPP. On the county
level, the county physical planning offices prepare and implement the county physical plans as well as those
for the protected areas, reporting to the MEPP. Implementation of physical plans is reviewed every two
years with recommendations for improvements adopted as needed. The management of national parks and
nature parks is based on physical plans and in some cases specific park, protected area management plans
such as in Paklenica NP. Land-use of the areas surrounding the national parks is managed via county level
physical plans.
Lack of coordination between physical management plans and protected area management plans is one of
the problems for biodiversity conservation. Physical plans are developed independently of protected area
plans and do not incorporate biodiversity conservation. Protected area physical plans are generally
inadequately integrated with local land-use needs as identified in county physical plans. Protected areas,
specifically national and nature parks, have no overall management plans that would typically include
business management plans. As part of Project preparation, a review of existing county physical plans and
protected area physical plans was conducted and the resulting recommendations were incorporated into
project design. Another problem is that intersectoral coordination in developing physical plans is limited.
Methods for intersectoral collaboration and guidelines are needed for the integration of biodiversity
concems into county level physical plans, sectoral plans, and protected areas physical and management
plans.
Sectoral Strategies. Biodiversity conservation is not incorporated in most sectoral strategies, notably in
those of the tourism, forestry, and agriculture sectors which have potentially great impacts on biodiversity.
Sectoral strategies are not subject to review by the MEPP. Tourism. In the pre-war period, tourism was
an economic pillar for Croatia accounting for nearly 12% of the GDP. Although much of the country's
attraction to tourists was based on the integrity of its natural resources, in fact there was virtually no
awareness of conservation. The Govemment's intention is to increase revenues from tourism to bolster the
national economy and, to this end, a national tourism master plan is in preparation. In the absence of
adequate safeguards, increased tourism could result in negative environmental impacts such as habitat
- 5-



destruction from overuse or pollution.  Nature based tourism should be developed in a manner that
recognizes and limits impacts to vulnerable karst ecosystems and biodiversity. Forestry. 70% of the karst
region is forested. All forested lands that are not protected areas, as well as forests of nature parks, are
managed by Hrvatske Sume (HS), the state-owned national forest authority. Production in these forests is
carried out according to forest management plans, which are developed on a 10 year cycle and take into
consideration ecological and enviromnental functions of the forest. However, forest management may not
adequately address biodiversity conservation issues, and production forestry reportedly continues to take
place in some areas that have recently been assigned protected area status. HS has 15 forest districts and
168 local offices, which do not directly correspond to the administrative units for physical planning or
protected area boundaries. This organizational structure poses a challenge to a more integrated approach
to multiple land-use planning, yet the harmonization of forest management, physical and protected area
planning processes is a clear need for the project region. Agriculture. There is a strong link between
traditional agricultural and grazing practices in the project region and biodiversity. Grazing on highlands
and hence the enlargement of meadows have been key factors in establishing the existing biodiversity in the
project region. About 50% of the local flora is adapted to open landscapes rather than forests ecosystems.
However, significant depopulation of the project region and land mine remnants (about 14% of the forested
area in the KEC region is land-mined) have resulted in the cessation of traditional agricultural and grazing
practices. The BSAP identified protection of grassland habitats and the revitalization of cattle breeding in
the project region as strategic objectives for biodiversity conservation.  As examples of successful
integration of biodiversity conservation into sectoral programming, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry (MOAF), which also considers the karst region as an area of strategic importance for grazing in
open grasslands, now promotes keeping livestock in the project region by providing higher than national
level subsidies for cows, pigs, sheep, horse and milk. The Croatian Selection Center for Domestic Animals
(HSSC) of MOAF coordinates and finances subsidies that protect autochthonous, endangered breeds of
sheep, cow, horse and goat in Croatia. Among these breeds is the Lika Pramenka sheep which is important
for the protection of the karst grassland areas.
Lack of environmental awareness regarding karst ecosystems and limited public participation in the
decision making process.  Participation of the public in decision-making of any kind, including
environmental issues, has traditionally been low. Mass media show little interest in environmental issues
and protection resulting in a low level of information and education of the general public. While growing,
the influence and involvement of NGOs has been limited in the past. Despite the lack of awareness
regarding the need to protect karst ecosystems, there is a strong sense of pride among Croatians in their
natural and cultural landscape and this could easily be tapped if effective mechanisms were put into place.
Government comritment and strategy. The new government has demonstrated a commitment to improving
the legal and institutional fiamework for nature protection. Institutionally the environment sector was
elevated from a directorate to ministerial status. Environment was also combined with physical planning
to form a Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP) in recognition of the
inter-relationship between environmental protection, land-use, and development, and expanded
opportunities for inter-sectoral coordination. As a nascent institution, the MEPP suffers from the country's
overall budgetary problems - but it appears to be going in the right direction. The MEPP has shown
commitment to environmental issues by preparing revisions of the major piece of environmental legislation,
the Law on Nature Protection (82/94), to broaden the mandate of enviromuental protection and to authorize
a more pro-active approach in emphasizing sustainable development and use of natural resources. In
support of this objective, MEPP has established a Department for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources.
The draft legislation is expected to pass a second government review in early 2002 and then be submitted to
the government and Parliament for approval (expected in late 2002). The new draft includes guidelines,
recommendations and concrete measures from the BSAP, as well as addressing outstanding issues related
- 6-



to international agreements. The new law integrates EU Directives and harmonizes Croatia's law with
existing laws of neighboring countries (Slovenia and Hungary). The Government's significant contribution
of US$3.2 million to the proposed Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project (KEC) reflects its strong
commitment to biodiversity conservation.
Regarding the obstacles to effective conservation, the government's strategy is less well formulated.
Currently, the biodiversity and protected management sectors are faced with the same economic problems
as the rest of the country. The govermnent, in particular the MEPP, is taking a serious look at economic
instruments for financing environmental protection. The NEAP recommends new approaches to financing
environmental programs, including biodiversity conservation. Meanwhile, the protected areas are each
seeking opportunities to increase revenues and capture them for conservation activities. Protected area
managers and staff are engaging in study tours and exchange programs, funded under project preparation,
to national parks in Italy, Slovenia and the U.S. However, the integration of biodiversity conservation into
other sectors' planning, while a strong recommendation of the BSAP, has not taken hold and will be a major
goal of the KEC project. This will be accomplished by developing guidelines for sectoral strategies,
training, and selected inter-sectoral activities.  The government is particularly concemed to identify
impacts of tourism on environment. The NEAP recommends a strategy towards tourism that protects
natural resources; balances development with sustainability; strengthens eco-tourism and reduces emphasis
on mass tourism; and educates tourists and local residents. Several "eco-tourism" conferences have been
held in Croatia in 2000 and 2001 bringing together key stakeholder groups to discuss opportunities and
strategies. Biodiversity specialists have played key roles in designing and participating in these tourism
conference. In the forestry sector, the Forestry Law is being updated in a way that would integrate
biodiversity interests and allow other uses of forests e.g. recreation, biodiversity protection, nature based
tourism, under certain circumstances.
-7-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will assist the Government to address priorities identified in the BSAP by: (i) building the
national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support natural resource management and (ii) establishing
community based approaches for biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use in, and among,
selected protected areas and their associated villages in the karst region. Specifically, the project will assist
the Government to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation through
review of current environment related legislation and strategies (e.g. national tourism strategy) and
harmonization of sectoral legislation and policies, to ensure that biodiversity conservation concerns are
adequately addressed and overlapping mandates resolved. It will produce guidelines, and training in their
use, for incorporating biodiversity conservation into physical and sectoral planning.  The project will
strengthen the capacity of MEPP to regulate and coordinate biodiversity conservation issues at the national
and local levels and to manage protected areas. It will improve the ability of local staff to manage
protected areas by improving the quality and accessibility of data. This will include undertaking a
thorough inventory and mapping of biodiversity in the project region; evaluating proposed protected area
sites; conducting a monitoring program for large carnivores; inventorying biodiversity of caves and
sub-terranean ecosystems and their related hydrogeology; developing a karst ecosystem biodiversity GIS
and database; developing a web-site; and establishing monitoring programs at selected sites. It will
increase the capacity for biodiversity conservation on the protected-area level by providing technical
assistance, goods and equipment. This will include development of guidelines for protected area
management plans; development of three protected area management plans in selected sites; and ranger
training programs. Each of the project sites has unique needs in terms of goods and works to improve
biodiversity protection which the project will address, e.g. program for the recovery of the Eurasian Vulture
(Paklenica NP), program to protect local breeds of sheep (Velebit NP). Additionally, the project will
support: (i) monitoring; (ii) facilities for field, interpretation, recreational and education; (iii) staff skill
development; (iv) research exchange; and (v) support for "people and parks" programs. The project also
aims to contribute to formulation of transboundary tourism marketing plans, as well as the management
and monitoring of biodiversity research and projects related to biodiversity conservation, e.g. develop a
transboundary protected area management plant between Risnjak NP and neighboring national parks in
Slovenia.
The project help the Government to balance economic development and conservation efforts. The project
will fund a protected area system market analysis followed by a promotion and marketing plan. It also
will fund a protected area financing strategy. It will finance a tourism development strategy for the project
region to identify local-level opportunities in tourism for artisans, craftsmen, business people. This effort
will be followed by offerings of training in development of business plans and in proposal writing. A
major ($500,000 of grant funds) activity under the project is the "Conservation and Rural Revitalization
Grants" (CRRG) program.   The CRRG grants program    will be available to farmers, foresters,
entrepreneurs, businesses, and NGOs in the project region and is intended to finance activities that
demonstrate linkages between economic development and conservation. The grants program will encourage
activities which demonstrate inter-sectoral collaboration.
The project will increase public awareness and public participation in conservation initiatives and decision
making. It will finance preparation of a "how to" guide for protected area managers that outlines steps for
community and NGO participation in protected area management The project will finance a 'People and
Parks" program in each of the four national parks; local advisory groups; and community outreach and
involvement activities in each protected area. The project finances a small grants program for NGOs
specifically for educational activities. The project will prepare biodiversity conservation
promotional/education materials including a traveling, mobile exhibit; field guides; material for the karst
- 8 -



web-site;  TV promotional spots; annual biodiversity festivals;  and conduct a pilot biodiversity
conservation educational program (designed by NGOs) utilizing the internet, in five schools.
4. Description of the Project Region
Proiect Region
The project addresses only some of the issues facing the biodiversity conservation sector in Croatia, and
confines its activities to the general area of the Dinarids, as previously described, and five of its protected
areas, and their associated communities. The Government and the Bank favored a combination of national
level attention for issues related to institutional strengthening, intersectoral coordination, and public
awareness; and a local level approach to improve protected area management for biodiversity
concentration, rural revitalization, and tourism. By limiting the project to a local approach in an area
important for biodiversity, the project seeks to increase the possibilities for successful implementation, to
have a visible demonstration effect of the linkages between conservation and development, and to focus
limited resources.
The project region is a representative karst area of the Dinarids Mountains (see map Annex 2). The 9,500
square kilometer area (17% of total land in Croatia) is defined by the Slovenian border to the north, and the
Zrmanja River to the south. Administratively, the region consists of the Lika-Senj county, which is 80% of
the project region; Primorsko-Goranka county, 15% of the project region; and Zadar County, 5%. The
region contains inmnense karst aquifers with high quality potable water, large karst springs, and the most
extensive forest areas in the Dinarids. Approximately 40% of the project region is designated as protected
area. This includes three long established national parks (NP) (Paklenica, Plitvice Lakes and Risnjak), one
new national park (Northern Velebit), and one nature park (PN) (Velebit). Paklenica and Northern Velebit
National Parks are located within the much larger Velebit Nature Park.
This selection of protected area sites in total provides the project with (i) biodiversity of international value;
(ii) importance for economic development; (iii) presence of direct or potential threats to biodiversity; (iv)
representative sites for the country and the opportunity for replicability of interventions in other karst areas;
(v) importance for overall environmental stability; and (vi) expected sustainability of intervention effects.
A detailed description of each of the project protected area sites is found in annex 2.
Protected Area Mana2ement in the Proiect Region
The management of national parks and nature parks is based on physical plans, specific to the site, which,
in the project area, vary from park to park. Only Paklenica National Park has an adequate physical plan,
well-coordinated with the county physical plan, and thus serves as a best practice to be replicated in the
other project sites. The new North Velebit National Park has no plan at all. The protected areas in the
project region also vary considerably in terms of size, staffing, and financing (Table 1).
Table 1: Characteristics of the project protected areas - data for 2000
Protected area         Year of       Size in    Number of    Employees in    Financing:
declaration      km2       registered    protection     National
visitors      activities  budget/self-f
inancing
9-



NP Risnjak                  1953          64           25,000       13           50/50
NP Plitvice Lakes           1949           294          490,000      120          3/97
NP Paklenica                1949           96            70,000      20          30/70
NP Northern Velebit         1999       _                     0        1           100/0
Velebit Nature Park         1981         2,000              0        1           100/0
As can be seen above, there are two significantly different groupings of parks: (i) those that have been in
existence about 50 years, have a relatively large number of visitors, high degree of self-financing, some
level of employees in nature protection, i.e. Paklenica, Plitvice and Risnjak; and (ii) relatively new parks,
with no visitor registration, financed largely by the government, few full or part-time staff, i.e. NP North
Velebit, and Velebit PN. The GEF funds are allocated according to the level of development, with the
newer parks receiving more resources.
Parks are financed by a combination of self-generated revenues, generally from visitor fees, and from the
MEPP budget. One of the national parks, Plitvice Lakes, is a major tourist attraction in Croatia and
generates considerable revenues from visitor entrance fees. Risnjak and Paklenica National Parks also
derive revenues from visitor fees. Currently these revenues are not sufficient to render the parks financially
self-sufficient. These parks intend to increase visitor revenues by attracting more visitors and offering them
a variety of nature activities. Velebit Nature Park and Northern Velebit National Park do not currently
earn tourism revenues, although the potential exists. The Project will include preparation of a general
protected area financing strategy.
Physical Planning in the Project Region
County physical plans are of relevance to protection of biodiversity in the project region from two
perspectives. First, for the 60% of the project region that is "unprotected", the inadequacy of the county's
physical plans in incorporating conservation concerns poses a threat to the biodiversity of the region.
Second, county level land-use, construction activities, and economic development, managed through the
county's physical plans, have impacts on the protected areas within their boundaries.
Project preparation included a review of county level physical plans for the project region, and protected
area management plans for the project's sites.  The review indicated the stage of completion,
incorporation of biodiversity conservation concems, realism of plans' recommendations, identification of
threats, etc. County plans were found to differ significantly; all had strengths and weaknesses. Project
activities have been designed to address the specific shortcomings of each of the three county plans.
Similarly, protected area plans varied from none (NP Velebit, Velebit PN, Plitvice NP) to relatively good
plans (Paklenica), to good plans that could use some upgrading (Risnjak). The KEC project will develop
physical and management plans for those protected areas that don't have them, and update existing
protected area management plans, as needed, to incorporate biodiversity issues.
Economic Activities and Resource Use in the Project Region
Project preparation included a social and rural development assessment (Annex 11).  The results
significantly guided project preparation. The KEC Project area has experienced profound demographic
changes over the past several decades.  In Lika-Senj county, which includes Plitvice National Park,
Velebit Nature Park, North Velebit National Park, and comprises more than 80% of the KEC region, there
has been an extreme and steady depopulation in recent years due primarily to the war and lack of economic
- 10 -



opportunities. Population density in Lika-Senj is extremely low at 15 person/square kilometer. The
population that remains is very old, and relies largely on pensions for support. The other of the two major
counties in the project, Gorski-Kotar District of Primorsko-Goranska county, in which Risnjak National
Park is located, have experienced the same depopulation for similar reasons although less hard-hit by war
impacts. Similarly, in Zadar county, in the rural region around Paklenica National Park, there are only 120
people living, all elderly. The exact population of the project region is not known. No census has been
conducted in the project region since 1990 and due to a number of factors, most significantly the war, and
population data from 1990 is not very useful. The social assessment undertaken during preparation for the
project attempted to establish population data but could only guess at a figure of about 65,000. The
project region has a significant "floating" element due to younger people staying with elders on a revolving
temporary basis; people living part-time in rural areas and part-time in larger towns where they work; and
younger Serbs moving back and forth between Belgrade and their homes in Croatia. While there is a very
rich cultural heritage in Croatia, virtually all of its manifestations in the project region, e.g. heritage
buildings, traditional foods and beverages; wood arts and crafts; wool, textiles and clothing production are
disappearing.
The economic situation in the KEC project region is significantly depressed, even for Croatia.
Unemployment is estimated at over 40%. In Lika-Senj, in the 1980s almost everyone had a paying job in
forestry, tourism, or government. To supplement their income in one of the state-organized industries,
many practiced traditional agriculture on their family farms. The thiiving Plitvice Lakes National Park
that was attracting 750,000 visitors in the late 1980s was an all-important source of direct employment. It
also provided large guaranteed markets for all the agricultural products people could produce.
In the 1990s, the country saw a major decline of all Lika-Senj's productive sectors, loss of jobs, and
out-migration of young people. The war started and was largely fought in the Plitvice National Park area.
Even with reconstruction, the area remains depressed and has suffered from the national slump in tourism
and other sector activities. Forestry jobs in Lika-Senj have declined by at least 60% from some 1,700 to
2,000 jobs in 1991, to between 570 and 700 today as a result of the bankruptcy of several sawmills as land
mines take some forests out of production. As far as agriculture is concerned, the significant decline of
tourism at Plitvice has undermined demand for produce. Never a mainstay but a strong supplementary
activity, it continues its decline. The predominant elderly farm dwellers are unable to maintain pastoral and
crop lands, while the younger people are often unable to farmn effectively due to a lack of resources and a
lack of knowledge about how to market their products. The year 2000 gave signs that the tourism industry
may be on its way to recovery, increasing demand for related goods and services sectors as well. A total of
6.6 million people visited Croatia, and the Plitvice Lakes National Park received about 480,000 visitors. It
is believed by many that establishment of a sound economic base in this region may be an important factor
in achieving sustainable development.
In the northern part of the study area around Risnjak National Park, forestry was, and remains, the
overwhelmingly dominant industry, accounting for approximately 1,100 jobs. This represents about the
same employment level as in 1991, accounting for an estimated 700/o-80% of total employment in the
district. Unfortunately, a decline in employment by the sector is anticipated, as a result of reorganization
and modernization. Before the war and independence, municipalities used to own the forests within their
boundaries and were able to generate important revenues from this resource. HS now manages the forests
providing a very small portion of revenues back to the municipalities. Before the war, many of the
communities in the Risnjak National Park study area were visited by tourists, mostly Western European,
who were staying in nearby Istria and Kvarner Bay (Opatija, Crikvenica) and attracted to the region by the
natural and cultural features. Such visitation included day and overnight stays and provided revenues
sufficient to diversify the study area's economy beyond forestry. Unfortunately, the war and break-up of
- 11 -



Yugoslavia led to a severe decline of the coastal tourism industry, particularly of the Western European
tourists.
In the southernmost part of the study area, around Paklenica National Park, tourism is the mainstay of the
economy, centered along the coast around Starigrad. Forestry is not an industry of any importance in this
southern region. While agriculture was reportedly important to the area in past decades, there are only a
few remaining rural villages.
Implications of these fndings for project design are presented in section "E. Summary Project Analysis: 6.
Social"
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Results of five studies conducted under project preparation were used in designing the project: Social and
Rural Development Assessment; Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey; Legal, Regulatory and Institutional
Review; Land and Natural Resource Management Plan Review; and Public Awareness and Environmental
Education Needs Assessment. In addition to these studies, results of a technical assistance rmission
sponsored by the U.S. Department of Interior/National Parks Service, conducted in September, 2000; and a
study tour of Croatian national park directors to U.S. National Parks, May, 2001, were used to guide both
national level and site specific project activities. Results of the background studies were used to select the
project region boundaries. The project region encompasses three counties - Primorje-Gorski Kotar,
Lika-Senj, and Zadar. Within the project region are four national parks and nature parks from North to
South being: Risnjak National Park, Plitvice National Park, and the Velebit Nature Park, which includes in
its territories North Velebit Nature Park and Paklenica National Park. The project region is defined in
more detail in Annex 2. The three project components are as follows:
Component 1. Build national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support sustainable resource use
Activities to strengthen national capacity fall into five sub-components:
(i) Strengthening laws and regulatory framework. The project will finance a review and/or revision of
biodiversity-related regulations and sectoral strategies to incorporate biodiversity conservation concerns.
The project will finance training in the use of the guidelines to staff from relevant government agencies,
including the Ministry of Forestry and Agriculture, Ministry of Tourism, Croatia Forests (HS), Croatia
Waters (HV); physical planners; and protected area staff; as well as NGOs and citizens.
(ii) Strengthening national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation. The project will finance
preparation of protected area management and planning guidelines which include biodiversity concerns;
guidelines for community and NGO participation in protected area management; a protected area system
market analysis, promotion and marketing plan; a protected area financing strategy; and a pilot project on
biodiversity information dissemination. The project will develop and conduct a ranger training program.
(iii) Expansion of species and taxa under legal protection. Project preparation studies found that may be
other areas in the project region which could be eligible for protected area status. For these areas, which
include Ogulin and the Kupa Valley, the project will finance feasibility studies including an analysis of
biodiversity; assessment of water management issues related to biodiversity conservation; equipment for
- 12 -



underwater biodiversity monitoring; and revision of the list of taxa under legal protection.
(iv) Biodiversity inventory, mapping and monitoring. The project will finance consultant services and
equipment for inventory and mapping of the biodiversity priority areas (identified by the BSAP and
Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey); a specific inventory of the biodiversity of caves in the project region
and necessary equipment for such; a study of cave hydrology in the project region; and a monitoring
program for large carnivores in the project region. The project will finance the development of a GIS for
the project region, the database, and training for staff in its use.
(v) Increasing public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation. The project will finance
development of a public awareness strategy; development of a WEB site and TV spots on biodiversity
conservation; a guide to karst biodiversity; annual workshops/festivals on biodiversity conservation; and
preparation of a traveling exhibition on biodiversity and the KEC Project.
Comuonent 2. Establishing community-based mechanisms for biodiversit, conservation and
sustainable resource use in the karst repion
The project will support measures to preserve the globally significant biodiversity in the Karst region
through community level activities and capacity building for protected area management. Activities to
meet this objective fall into three sub-components:
(i) Promotion of sustainable nature based tourism. The project will finance development of a local level
tourism strategy which includes determination of the nature-based tourism potential in the region and
econornic opportunities in tourism; a visitor management plan for selected protected areas; and preparation
and field works on the European-6 (E-6) hiking trail through the project region (E-6) is a branch of a larger
network of hiking trails which spans Europe).
(ii) Increasing local public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation. The project will finance
preparation of national park promotion materials for park visitors, local population, and schools; and
preparation of field guides for the project region.
(iii) Improved protected area management and services for biodiversity conservation. In each of the five
protected areas in the project region, the project will finance refurbishing of existing visitor structures,
information kiosks, and research facilities (where they already exist); a "people and parks" program, each
to be designed specific to the protected area and intended to ensure direct, comnunity involvement in the
decision making process; field works, e.g. trails, signs; data acquisition, processing and interpretation
equipment including computers, GIS software; field equipment, e.g. field telephone, binocular, staff
uniforms, safety equipment; equipment for monitoring programs; and staff development in skills such as
interpretation, education, monitoring, research. The project will finance distinct investments/activities in
each of the five protected areas, according to their needs as follows:
*   Paklenica NP: The project will finance the "Recovery of the Eurasian Vulture (Gypsfulvus) Project"
by providing equipment, education material, and monitoring equipment
*   Plitvice NP: The project will finance preparation of a park management plan; laboratory equipment for
the research facility; and mowing equipment.
*   North Velebit NP: The project will finance preparation of a park management plan; and rehabilitation
of a park road.
*   Velebit Nature Park: The project will finance preparation of a park management plan; field vehicles;
mountain shelters, camp sites, and fire control equipment.
- 13 -



*   Risnjak NP: The project will finance rescue equipment, horses and equipment; a traveling exhibit;
camp site facilities.
(iv) Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program.  The goal of this sub-component is to
demonstrate of linkages between rural development and biodiversity conservation. The main activity under
this sub-component is the financing of the Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants program (CRRG).
The conservation and rural revitalization grants (CRRG) program is designed to enable groups and
individuals to carry out activities that contribute to achieving the goals and objectives of the project. The
CRRG program will support entrepreneurial projects which demonstrate linkages between sustainable use
of natural resources, economic development and biodiversity conservation. $500,000 will be available for
grants to farmers, artisans, entrepreneurs, businesses, and NGOs. Public-private partners or NGOs in
partnership with others are also eligible. Grant activities could include support to local communities to
develop small businesses, such as tourism services, crafts, food services; support of demonstration projects
linking conservation and sustainable natural resource use such as traditional agricultural activities, forestry
and water resource related projects; and public education and outreach activities. The goal of the CRRG
project is to encourage projects in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of biological resources in
the KEC project region; communiity development and increased civil society participation in biodiversity
conservation; and NGO activity in conservation. The specific objectives of the CRRG program are to:
*   Enhance the objectives and activities of the KEC project by supporting community based initiatives
which address the KEC goal;
*   Demonstrate the link between the objectives of conservation and tangible benefits for local
communities;
*   Develop replicable approaches to economic development which ensures biodiversity conservation;
*   Strengthen new and emerging local civic groups and NGOs in order to promote biodiversity
conservation;
*   Test innovative approaches and technologies to biodiversity conservation; and
*   Establish partnership between local communities, protected areas administrations, NGOs and PIUs to
promote sustainable development of local communities in the KEC project area
Annex 2 provides more details about the CRRG program. The Project Implementation Plan includes a
CRRG draft operations manual which details the proposed administrative, procurement, disbursement, and
application arrangements. The operations manual will be finalized with the involvement of the local
advisory boards during the first year of KEC project implementation. Completion of the final CRRG
operations manual will be a condition of disbursement of grants. This sub-component will also finance a
local cattle breeds protection program; and rehabilitation of the Glacka river springs facility which is a
cultural heritage and biodiversity conservation site. Both of these activities are further demonstrations of
linkages between economic development, tourism, and conservation.
(v) Regional Cooperation Program for Karst Ecosystem Conservation. Under this sub-component
financial support for Croatia to encourage partnerships with Croatia's neighbors, particularly Slovenia
(Risnjak and Kupa River Project), will be provided to encourage and support transboundary solutions to
biodiversity conservation. The project will finance the inventory and monitoring of the biodiversity of
springs, groundwater, caves, meadows, forests and cliffs on the Croatian side of the border region between
Croatia and Slovenia in the Risnjak National Park region. It will finance the preparation of the Risnjak
National Park Management plan in coordination with Slovenia. The project will finance a tourism
marketing plan for the Croatian region on the Slovenian border; promotional materials; intemational
workshops; and participation of Croatian protected area staff in karst workshops. The project will finance
study tours to European countries including France; and participation in international and regional
- 14 -



workshops, training, partnerships, and conferences related to project objectives.
Component 3. Proiect Management and Monitoring
The project will finance the establishment and operation of a central PIU located within the MEPP in
Zagreb and composed of a project manager, a procurement specialist, financial management specialist, and
an assistant. The project will also finance a local PIU that will be located within the county/municipal
physical planning office in Gospic, one of the two county seats included in the project. The local PIU will
be staffed by a project field coordinator and assistant.
Donor interest in the KEC project has been strong. During project preparation the U.S.Agency for
International Development (USAID), the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI) and the U.S. National Park
Service (NPS) worked together with the KEC project team to help identify KEC project components
directed towards the five protected areas included in the project. DOI-NPS financed a technical assistance
mission of three protected area management specialists for three weeks to Croatia in September, 2000 , to
assist with KEC project design. DOI/NPS sponsored a Croatian delegation of protected area managers to
the U.S. National Parks in April, 2001. DOI/NPS worked with the KEC project team and MEPP to design
a program "Practical Training in National Parks" financed, in part, by USAID/Croatia. This program
was designed to improve visitor interpretation services in two KEC project national parks; and to provide
job-training to local youths thus assisting in the reintegration of war-affected populations in the KEC
project region. This US$120,000 program was carried out from June 2001-April 2002. Based on its
success, US DOI/NPS is currently considering a sequel to be conducted in FY03 at approximately the
same funding level. The KEC project will continue to work closely with US DOI/NPS during KEC
project implementation. US DOI has offered the services of the project manager of their program to the
MEPP/KEC team.
The Dutch Partners for Water program is financing a $100,000 Croatian technical assistance project for
FY03. The goal of the project is to support KEC project activities by providing Dutch expertise in
groundwater, pollution and biodiversity conservation in preparing karst conservation guidelines. If
successful it is expected that an additional $100,000 will be available for FY04.
-  Comyponent
1. Strengthening national  Institutional      1.83     21.9    0.00      0.0     1.04    20.5
capacity to conserve      Development
biodiversity and support
sustainable resource use.
2. Community based                            4.88     58.3    0.00      0.0     2.88    56.8
mechanisms for biodiversity
conservation and sustainable
resource use in the Karst
region
3. Project Management and                     1.26     15.1    0.00      0.0     0.78    15.4
Monitoring
Unallocated                                   0.40      4.8    0.00      0.0     0.37     7.3
Total Project Costs                   8.37    100.0   0.00       0.0     5.07   100.0
0.00      0.0   0.00       0.0     0.00    0.0
Total Financing Required                   8.37    100.0    0.00      0.0     5.07   100.0



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will address a key environmental policy issue facing the government - how to manage the
country's future growth and development, while protecting the environment, on the national and local level.
It will strengthen the ability of the newly established MEPP to implement the new (2002) Law on Nature
Protection. It will integrate biodiversity conservation concems into sector politics and physical planning
and increase sectoral collaboration for conservation. The project will expand opportunities for nature
based tourism while ensuring the ecological integrity of protected areas. The project will support rural
revitalization activities and increase the role of civil society in environmental decision-making.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would have environmental, financial, institutional and social benefits.  The primary
environmental benefit would be increased national level capacity to protect globally significant biodiversity
in the Croatian karst ecosystems. The project would also benefit other regional, transboundary initiatives
to conserve the biodiversity of the Alp/Dinarid/Balkan karst mountain chain. Financial benefits would
include a more cost-effective approach to protected area management. Protected areas would develop
management plans which include a business plan with feasible financial targets and adequate allocation of
resources for conservation activities. Institutional benefits would include strengthening of the newly
established MEPP and its ability to implement the new Law on Nature Protection; increased overall
capacity to manage biodiversity conservation for multiple uses through piloting of participatory,
community based planning and management approaches; improved coordination across sectors at the
national and local level; and sharing of experience of other protected areas and karst regions across the
country. Social benefits would be realized by the entire Croatian society, local communities, and tourists.
The project will increase the recreational and existence value of the protected areas for urban and coastal
populations and tourists by conserving their karst ecosystems. It will improve the social sustainability of
biodiversity conservation by increasing local communities' participation in the decision making process on
protected area management and by supporting them in developing small businesses including nature based
tourism services. The project will also help local communities realize economic benefits from tourism to
the parks, and will contribute to rural revitalization.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 years
Project oversight: The MEPP will have overall responsibility for project implementation and a national
level project implementation unit (PIU) will be established in the MEPP Division of General Environmental
Policy. The PIU will build on the existence of the KEC project preparation implementation unit. The PIU
will be responsible for all procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project as
well as oversight of consultants, seminars and training. The PIU will be responsible for coordinating with
other donors the implementation of components to be supported through parallel and co-financing. It will
also be responsible for all reporting requirements to the Bank and the Government. It will be staffed by a
project director, procurement and disbursement specialist, financial specialist and an assistant, funded
under the project.
The project would also finance a local PIU office in Gospic, the county seat of Lika Senj. The local PIU
office, provided by the government, will be in the county department office building which houses local
offices for all sectors and for physical planning. This will facilitate local level inter-sectoral coordination
and planning.  Since Gospic has been identified by county officials as the best location for a proposed
- 16 -



regional development pole, locating a PIU here offers the potential to coordinate the project with county
development plans. The local PIU will be responsible for day-to-day project implementation and local level
coordination. The local PIU will be staffed by a project field coordinator and assistant funded by the
project. The local level PIU will report directly to the national PIU. Staffing and technical decisions for
the local PIU will be the responsibility of the MEPP Division of Nature Protection.
The CRRG program will support projects that further the KEC project development objective. The
beneficiaries would include community based organizations, NGOs, private entrepreneurs, and local
residents.
The PIU would be assisted by an inter-agency Project Steering Committee established prior to Board
presentation. The Steering Committee consists of representatives from relevant Ministries and institutions,
including Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry, State Directorate for Water, and Croatia Waters. The Steering Committee would be responsible
for providing project oversight advice, inter-ministerial coordination, and assistance in resolving issues
associated with project implementation. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Physical Planning
will be chairman for this committee. The Steering Committee will build on the success of the inter-agency
committee which oversaw KEC project preparation.
Local advisory groups from each of the three main project regions (Plitvice, Paklenica, and the Velebit),
selected by, and comprised of, representatives of key stakeholder groups, will also assist the PIU. The
functions of the national and local PIU and the terms of reference of staff are included in Annex I of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) as are the functions of the local advisory board and steering committee.
Financial Management
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001 to
determine whether the financial management anrangements within the PIU are acceptable to the Bank. It is
concluded that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. The MEPP and PIU have also agreed to take the following measures:
Action                                                             Deadline
1.    Prepare FMRs
First half year after
Effectiveness
2. The PIU to select auditors acceptable to the Bank, to audit the Grant 09/30/2002
accounts.
Financial Reporting
The PIU will ensure the preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic progress reports to the
relevant government institutions, including the World Bank, to reflect: (i) sources and uses of funds, by
component and activity; (ii) project progress; and (iii) procurement activities. In this context, the PIU will
prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), which would be submitted to the Bank within 45
days of the end of each half year. The first FMRs will be submitted for the first half year after
Effectiveness. The FMRs formats were discussed during appraisal and was agreed at negotiations.
Audit Arranigements. The PIU, would be responsible for ensuring that the Project financial statement,
- 17 -



Special Accounts (SA), and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) are audited by an independent auditor,
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with International Auditing Standards (IAS). The PIU will maintain
responsibility for the management of project funds and the Special Account. They will monitor and keep
track of the use of funds. The audit will cover all funds related to the project, including counterpart funds,
for all project components. The annual audit will be conducted in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed. The audited financial statements, the special
accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Grant will be made based on traditional disbursement methods
(i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
and full documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). The proceeds of the World Bank
Grant will be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation,
the MEPP will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank. While, the PIU will prepare all the required documents and keep accounts for the project, all
payments will be made by the accounting department of the MEPP, as required by law. The option to
move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternatives considered were:
*      Include only Plitvice Lakes National Park in the project and focus activities on improving
biodiversity conservation in one national park. Plitvice is the most renowned of Croatia's national parks,
hence this alternative was proposed. However, since other protected areas in the project region also contain
unique biodiversity and extending the project to several of these additional protected areas would create
synergies among park managers, the scope of the project was broadened to cover five protected areas.
*      Focus only on protected areas and improving their management. This option was rejected in favor
of including project activities in non-protected areas bordering the protected areas so as to strengthen
linkages between rural development opportunities, biodiversity conservation, and tourism. The broader
focus also enables the project to have a greater socio-economic impact on the communities adjacent to the
parks; extend the benefits of the project to a wider population; and integrate conservation
activities/considerations into regional planning. The social assessment fully supports the need to develop
the nature based tourism potential of the region, as well as to identify and support rural development
initiatives that link development with sustainable natural resource use.
- 18 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned). The KEC project is linked to the Croatia Municipal Water Pollution Control
Project (MCWPC) which is mapped to ECSIN and is scheduled for appraisal in FY03. The objective of
the US$100 million MCWPC project is to help the Croatian government combat water pollution and
improve water quality in coastal areas. The implementing agencies will be Croatia Waters (HV) for the
infrastructure components and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP) for
the water quality monitoring component. HV and MEPP have been co-implementing agencies for the World
Bank Eastern Slavonian Reconstruction Project, also a water infrastructure project, and its associated
GEF project, Kopacki Rit Nature Park Project, since 1999. This model of the water infrastructure sector
working closely with the environment sector in Croatia, on both the Bank and government side, is thus well
established and has proven to be effective. Both the borrower and the Bank (environment and
infrastructure departmnents) are committed to continuing this successful approach in the design and
implementation of the MCWPC project and the KEC project. The MCWPC recognizes that since the most
of the surface and ground-waters supplying the coastal drinking water supply and discharging into the
Adriatic within the project's region, originate in the karst region of the KEC project, protection and
conservation of the sensitive karst ecosystems included in the KEC project are essential for the successful
implementation of the MCWPC Project. The MCWPC project will use an integrated water management
approach which will include wastewater treatment infrastructure in two selected geographic regions and
in selected "hot-spots." The MCWPC project will support the KEC project by including financing of a
specific enviromnental project component on water quality monitoring and capacity building of MEPP.
This component will also finance specialized water quality monitoring equipment, hydrogeological studies
in the KEC region, and training. The MCWPC Project may also identify and co-finance environmental
infrastructure investments in the KEC project region which would not be eligible for financing by the GEF.
As the MCWPC is still under preparation the exact amount of co-financing is not yet determined. The
KEC project task manager is the environmental specialist on the MCWPC project team and this
assignment was made so that the KEC task manager can design the water quality monitoring component of
the MCWPC project in coordination with the KEC project.
It is expected that the KEC project will be effective about one year before the MCWPC and that this timing
will be beneficial to both. It will give the MEPP at least one year to build water quality monitoring
capacity through implementation of the monitoring program financed under the KEC project and further
develop the working relationship between HV and MEPP. In the first year of implementation the KEC
project will review and make recommendations regarding incorporation of biodiversity concems into
sectoral strategies, including the proposed national tourism strategy and the coastal zone development
strategy. Both of these strategies will influence the MCWPC project, because the driving force for the
MCWPC project is to mitigate existing, and pre-empt future, negative environmental impacts of tourism
and economic development on the coast. Additional KEC Year one activities which will provide important
information to the final design of the MCWPC project are: (i) biodiversity inventory of caves in the
MCWPC project region to serve as a baseline; (ii) initiation of the KEC water quality monitoring activities
which subsequently can be replicated in the MCWPC project region; (iii) hydrgeological assessment of the
karst region in the upper watershed of the MCWPC region; (iv) development of an ecotourism strategy that
will incorporate considerations of downstream water quality impacts; and (v) development of protected area
management plans which may identify water pollution control investments that would enhance the KEC
project and could be financed under the MCWPC project.
The KEC project also will build on the results of the Coastal Forest Reconstruction Project (scheduled for
closing in June 2002), through activities targeted to improve intersectoral planning for biodiversity
conservation between MEPP and MoFA; interagency training programs, joint workshops and study tours;
and development of a management plan for the Velebit Nature Park based on guidelines developed under
the KEC project for incorporation of biodiversity conservation into the forest strategy. The Forestry
- 19 -



project's objective is to restore and protect forest land in the coastal zone of Croatia in order to enhance
landscape and recreation values of the region and thereby contribute to restored tourism.  The Coastal
Forest Reconstruction Project includes reconstruction of coastal forests destroyed by war activities
including the rehabilitation of about 5,800 ha of coastal forests. It also includes forest fire management
activities such as prevention through raising public awareness, cleaning and reducing the amount of
flammable material, fire detection system and fire fighting roads; as well as equipment e.g. seaplane
air-tankers, trucks and fire-fighting equipment. It has assisted with the development of a GIS; research
activities; and institutional support to Croatian Forests and the Ministry of Interior (MoI).
During preparation, the proposed Project was discussed with authorities implementing a Bank financed
"Croatia Emergency Transport/Mine Clearing Project." The "Mine Clearing" project involves: (i)
clearance of mines in priority areas; (ii) screening and surveys; (iii) quality assurance tests; and (iv)
technical assistance and training. The location of land mines throughout most of the country, including the
protected areas, and their associated communities, has been mapped and this information was used in
designing the KEC project. Activities such as trails and camps will not be built in the vicinity of land
mines. Land mine location information will also be used in assessing the projects proposed under the
KEC's Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program. While funds could be available from the
World Bank's Social Recovery and Development Project (in preparation) for de-mining, on a case-by-case
basis, it is not expected that there will be any KEC financed activities in areas of land mines.
The KEC project has generated interest in rural revitalization and a US$1 million grant has been awarded
from the World Bank to Croatia for the "Zadar and Knin-Sibenik Counties: Refugee Return and Regional
Development Project." This project region is located on the Northern Dalmatian coast of Croatia, and its
objective is to create pre-conditions for refugees to return (including youth and working age people) and a
broader economic development of Dalmatia. The grant program is under preparation and the team is
working closely with the KEC teamn to coordinate strategies.
Completed and ongoing related projects are:
Table 1. Projects financed by the bank
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-flnanced projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Environment                       IDF Grant: MEPP                    S             S
Environment Capacity Building
Natural Resources                  Coastal Forest Reconstruction     S             S
Project
Agriculture                       Farmer Support Project             S             S
Infrastructure/Envirornent        Eastern Slovania                   S             S
Reconstruction Project/Kopacki
Rit Nature Park (GEF
component)
Biodiversity                      Biodiversity Strategy and          S             S
Action Plan - completed
Infrastructure                    Emergency Transport & Mine         S             S
- 20 -



Clearing
Social                            Refugee Return and Regional
Development Project
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Add in "other UNDP/GEF - Renewable energy
NA
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Experience from other similar initiatives in Central and Eastern Europe suggests that:
(a)    All stakeholders should be involved early in project concept design, specifically local communities
and influential decision makers, by inviting them to workshops or public awareness programs, in order to
instill a feeling of ownership, build lasting commitment and achieve successful project implementation;
(b)    Conservation management strategies should establish a link between the objectives of conservation
and tangible benefits for key stakeholders, specifically including local communities (e.g., economic and
community development associated with appropriate forms of rural and ecotourism, etc.);
(c)    In order to achieve enviromnental, social and financial sustainability, conservation strategies must
be site-specific and address local needs and issues;
(d)    Where consumptive use of natural resources is an issue, (e.g., grazing, hunting, fishing, and use of
other forest products), resource users must be substantively involved in the design of sustainable resource
management systems, and effective monitoring and control mechanisms need to be developed and applied;
(e)    Applied research and monitoring programs should also be site-specific and targeted to provide
direct support for effective conservation management;
(f)    Problems should be solved jointly with clients and not for them; and
(g)    Decentralized responsibility for financial and project management builds local ownership and
sustainability of project activities.
(h)    Successful project implementation requires that PIU staff be in place prior to project start-up; the
first year procurement plan is ready by negotiations; and sequencing of project activities is determined prior
to implementation.
(i)    A successful competitive grant program is dependent on several factors: (i) identification of
realistic and focused priorities; (ii) a well trained Board and staff; (iii) an independent and transparent peer
review process; (iv) accountability; (v) efficient and effective fiduciary procedures; and (vi) a well defined
monitoring and evaluation system.
The project will incorporate these experiences and build on them specifically by: (i) addressing the links
between socio-economic issues and sustainable natural resource use and management through the rural
revitalization grants program, (ii) building both the local and national capacity for conservation
management, (iii) developing mechanisms for local level participation in conservation and land-use
decision-making, e.g. a "People and Parks" program in each protected area; (iv) ensuring a participatory
-21 -



and transparent approach to project preparation and implementation (v) ensuring PIU staff are in place, the
first year procurement plan is ready, and project sequencing determined prior to project start-up; and (vi)
preparing a Small grants program operations manual following procedures described in "Good Practices
for Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management for Competitive Grant Program in ECA
Countries."
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The World Bank received a letter of support from the GEF focal point, the Director of the State Directorate
for Nature Protection and Environment, requesting technical assistance and financial support for the
preparation of the Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project (June 1999). Subsequent to this, upon the
establishment of a new MEPP, the new minister and new GEF focal point, have supported the request for
the KEC project. Additional letters of support have been received (December, 2000, and October, 2001).
The Minister of MEPP visited World Bank headquarters April 17, 2001, to reiterate his support of the
KEC project, per his letter of support, December 13, 2000.
The Government agencies responsible for environment have shown a commitment to identifying and
prioritizing environmental problems and finding solutions. The BSAP was endorsed by the Parliament
(June 1999). The KEC project is a national priority under the BSAP, which identifies conservation of
biodiversity in the karst region as a key environmental priority. A National Environmental Action Plan
(NEAP), produced with support from the World Bank (2001) includes as priority environmental issues,
biodiversity conservation, and within biodiversity, specifies the KEC project as the top priority action.
MEPP is currently implementing a medium size GEF grant for biodiversity conservation as part of the
Eastern Slavonian Reconstruction.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The value added of GEF support for the KEC project comes from providing additional funds to ensure the
long-term protection of biodiversity of global importance. Without GEF support to coordinate these
activities, Croatia might undertake a series of small activities in different parts of the country, but would
lack a mechanism to coordinate the financing, and approaches and geographical targeting of activities. The
Bank has assisted Croatia with preparation of the BSAP and NEAP, which both provide a strategic
foundation for this project. Bank experience with ongoing project in Croatia's forest, agriculture, water,
and biodiversity sectors add value to the KEC project. Through its role as broker, the Bank has and will
continue to mobilize donor support for biodiversity conservation in Croatia.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Incremental costs associated with the provision of global benefits through the project were estimated. The
global benefits are: (i) increased national capacity to manage protected areas and natural resources
sustainable and to conserve biodiversity of global importance; and (ii) increased local capacity for
enhanced conservation of globally significant biodiversity and sustainable resource use in the karst region.
The total incremental cost of achieving these benefits is US$8.37 million. The Government of Croatia has
committed to financing US$3.30 million (39%). The GEF grant contribution toward the GEF alternative
would be US$5.07 million (61%).
- 22 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Total govemment financing for taxes and recurrent costs during the implementation period is estimated to
be USD 1.3 million which, at an average of USD 0.26 million/year, is less than 2.0% of the MEPP annual
budget (USD 15.5 million for 2001).
The Karst Ecosystem Conservation project is designed to address concems of financial sustainability of the
national parks it supports by enhancing their eco-tourism capacity for revenue generation and developing a
financing strategy for the Protected Areas (PA) system. Croatia has over 50 years experience in attracting
significant number of tourists to its national parks, and deriving revenues from user fees, the Plitvice Lakes
being a prime example. The rebounding of tourist inflows to the country after a decline in the mid 1990s
caused by the war, provides ample opportunity to derive revenues from tourist visits to build on this
experience in the national parks supported by the project. The project will fund a PA system market
analysis and the development of a promotion and marketing plan. Based on these studies, a PA system
financing strategy will develop a visitor fee structure for individual national parks. Furthermore, the
project will assist these national parks by building and equipping visitor centers, integrating ecotourism
development in park management plans, publishing information material on the parks, and by providing
training to park staff in nature interpretation and visitor management.
While project national parks will strive for financial sustainability, some of them may not be able to
achieve this at all times for various reasons. To ensure continued funding of recurrent costs in such cases,
the PA System financing strategy that will be elaborated under the project may entail a mechanism of
cross-subsidization from national parks that have surpluses.
Early in project preparation, concern was voiced regarding the indebtedness of the Plitvice Lakes National
Park (PLNP). The issue was whether the debt, related to the renovation of their hotels, might be diverted,
with revenues from visitor fees used to serve the debt rather than fund conservation activities. The financial
situation of PLNP was studied in detail during project preparation and discussed with the Government.
During appraisal, the Government presented the Bank with a letter which stated that "[t]he Government
has sought financial solutions to cover the PLNP hotel debts from its internal resources". The letter further
assures the Bank that MEPP has taken measures to separate the accounts of the conservation branch
funded by visitor fees and the hotel and restaurant branch of the PLNP. The Project Team considers this
assurance as satisfactory.
On the fiscal side, the project's support to existing and would-be local enterprises in setting up and
expanding environmentally friendly businesses in tourism services, farming and crafts production, will help
expand the Government's tax base. To the extent employment is enhanced, fiscal expenditures for social
protection may be less than would otherwise be the case.
3. Technical:
The project is technically justified on the basis of the urgent need to address growing and potential threats
to the globally significant biodiversity in the karst region of Croatia. This assessment is based on the
BSAP and Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey conducted as part of project preparation. The project seeks
to mainstream biodiversity considerations into land-use management plans as well as sectoral management
plans. The project components are aimed at addressing not just the immediate issues at hand but also to
- 23 -



build capacity to deal with long term priority conservation issues while establishing linkages and technical
partnerships with intemational organizations for regional transboundary conservation. The project also
aims to strengthen the legislative and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation and build public
awareness and support for biodiversity conservation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The executing agency would be the Ministry of Environment Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP).
The MEPP's Division of General Environmental Policy would have overall responsibility for project
coordination and supervision of progress. The Division of Nature Protection would have responsibility for
technical issues. The MEPP has sufficient capacity to implement the project as evidenced by its successful
completion of the GEF financed BSAP and the Bank financed NEAP; as well as its successful ongoing
implementation of three GEF financed projects -- Kopacki Rit -- a biodiversity conservation project, and
two climate change GEF financed projects.
4.2 Project management:
The MEPP will have overall responsibility for project implementation and a national level project
implementation unit (PIU) will be established in the MEPP Division of General Environmental Policy. A
project management unit handling donor funded projects has been operational in the MEPP, and former
State Directorate, since 1998. It is this unit that has executed the GEF activities and projects mentioned
above; prepared the KEC project; and managed donor programs. The KEC PIU will extend the existing
management structure to meet the additional management needs. The PIU will be responsible for all
procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project as well as oversee the work of
consultants, organize seminars and training. It will also be responsible for all reporting requirements to the
Bank and the Government. The project would also finance a local PIU office in Gospic. The local PIU
office will be in the county department office building which houses local offices for all sectors and for
physical planning. The local PIU will be responsible for day-to-day local project implementation and local
level coordination.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the existing project management unit's capacity to implement the project's procurement
plan was carried out in December, 2000. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle
management, organization and functions, support and control systems, and record keeping. The review
rated procurement under the project in the high-risk category although public procurement in Croatia is an
average risk. The rating is based on the limited experience the PIU has with procurement. The following
actions were recommended in the assessment and will be implemented to mitigate the procurement risk: (i)
a procurement book containing the guidelines, templates of tender notices, standard bidding documents,
evaluation forms, etc. will be prepared and made available to the PIU prior to project launch so that their
procurement staff can familiarize themselves with Bank procurement policies, procedures and documents;
(ii) a project launch workshop will be held for the PIU after effectiveness of the loan with sufficient time
dedicated to procurement issues; (iii) the PIU will hire a local procurement specialist with experience in
Bank projects, upon effectiveness, (in fact MEPP has already done so in September, 2000) with an
international procurement consultant retained for at least six months to train the local counterpart; and (iv)
intensive procurement supervision will be provided during the first three supervision missions. PIU staff
have attended the Bank's 4 week procurement training course in Turin, Italy (in March, 2001) and the
Bank's Competitive Grants course in Turkey (March 2001).
4.4 Financial management issues:
- 24 -



CFAA for Croatia was carried out in 1999. The reforms carried out to date in the area of financial
management put Croatia ahead of many other CEE countries. Croatia has, in fact, set up a modem legal
and regulatory framework, compatible with the needs of a market-driven economy, completely discarded
the old accounting system and opted to introduce a comprehensive new framework based on international
guidelines. In order to enhance public sector financial management and to achieve a higher level of
accountability, the issues related to the integrity and universal coverage of the budget process need to be
addressed in greater depth, together with the start of the Treasury, the modernization of accounting and
reporting systems and the further development of the institutions in charge of budget compliance through
internal and external audits. Bank rehabilitation is under way but additional efforts are needed to strengthen
banking supervision and improve credit institutions risk-management. Financial markets and their
regulatory institutions need further development; this would also make the privatization process more
effective. Market competition and corporate governance are main areas to be reformed to achieve greater
transparency and financial accountability for the private sector. A self-regulating and standard-setting
national body, ensuring the application of high standards of ethics and progressively taking on the functions
currently performed by the government, should define the organization of the accounting and auditing
profession.
To improve the overall public sector accountability, the reform of the institutions (namely, the ZAP and the
relevant Departments of the MoF) currently involved in the accounting, reporting and internal control
functions needs to be addressed. In conclusion, the establishment of an adequate financial management
framework for the public sector requires the modernization of accounting systems, the harmonization of
reporting formats as well as the introduction of effective internal controls and auditing functions.
From a financial management perspective, the project however, is considered moderate risk due to the
following reason. The existing PIU is well versed in Bank procedures with the experience gained form
implementing an IDF Grant and the on-going GEF project. The same PIU is expected to implement the
KECP. The PIU is "ring fenced", and will have its own financial management system and will carry out all
procurement functions in line with Bank's procurement guidelines.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environrental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project addresses national, global and transboundary biodiversity conservation issues. It is designed to
preempt the negative environmental impacts that could accompany economic development, particularly
tourism, in the karst region. The project activities which could have negative environmental impacts
include: (i) rehabilitation of existing structures in national parks, such as kiosks, visitor facilities;
rehabilitation of existing roads within parks; refurbishing of the local PIU office in Gospic (government
financed); upgrading of biodiversity research and monitoring facilities in Plitvice National Park; trail
construction in Gorski Kotar; and minor works in fences, small trails, landscaping in the National Park
Northern Velebit and the Park of Nature Velebit; and (ii) possibly some activities financed by the
Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants program since these will involve small grant awards to
farmers, entrepreneurs, NGOs, on a competitive basis, for projects aimed at increasing economic activity
in the project area whilst ensuring biodiversity conservation and environmental protection. CRRG
proposals could include activities such as conservation of mountain meadows, organic farming, handicrafts
production, wood processing.
Mitigation measures to be taken are detailed in the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and will
ensure that construction procedures mitigate for dust and noise; that trails will be individually assessed and
- 25 -



designed to take into consideration factors which influence the amount of resource damage caused by trail
use; that individual small projects carried out under the small grants program be reviewed under the
existing environmental impact assessment procedure (which is fully compatible with the World Bank OP
4.01); and that all project activity sites are clear of land mines. The operation manual for the CRRG
program will include environmental assessment guidelines consistent with those of the MEPP. Criteria for
selection of CRRG awardees will include compliance with existing Croatian environmental standards.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP provides an assessment of the potential impacts of protected area facilities improvements; and
indicates possible projects to be financed under the small grants program. The small grants program will
develop an operational manual before negotiations which will include procedures for environmental review
of the small grants projects. The EMP provides a table of activities, potential impacts/issues, mitigating
measures, costs, institutional responsibility, and comments.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 30, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental assessment was discussed during the project design workshop II (October, 2000)with
over 80 stakeholders, including NGOs. The EMP is on the MEPP's web-site; and has been made available
for public consultation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EMP has designed a monitoring and evaluation program for the project which reflects the objectives of
the EMP.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment (SA) was conducted as part of project preparation. At the time the demographics of
the project region had not been examined since 1991, pre-war, and most of the project region was not
included in the recent (2000) Croatia Poverty Assessment.  (Since the SA, a 2001 census has been
conducted but the results are not yet available). The SA study area consisted of the communities in and
around the four protected areas that are the focus of the KEC, including: Paklenica National Park (within
north Zadar County, at the south end of the KEC study area); Plitvice Lakes National Park in Lika-Senj
County; Velebit Nature Park, also in Lika Senj County; and Risnjak National Park (in the Gorski-Kotar
District of Primorsko-Goranska County).
The main findings of the SA relevant to the KEC project are that the population in the project region has
declined substantially in the past ten years; the area is economically depressed; and traditional rural and
agricultural activities once practiced in the region have largely been abandoned.  From available
information, the SA estimates the population of the total project region is about 65,000. Since 1991 (the
-26-



date of the census for which data is available, 2001 census data not yet available), the demographics of the
project area have shifted significantly. It is estimated that in Lika-Senj County, which comprises more than
80% of the project area, the population has decreased over ten years from 64,000 to approximately 44,000
people, most of whom are elderly. While unemployment was already high before the war, it is now much
higher throughout the project area which includes the poorest county in Croatia (Lika Senj). Employment
in the main towns, such as Gospic and Otocac, is largely in the forestry sector, public sector, and in a few
small businesses. Although agricultural pursuits have long been practiced throughout the area, agriculture
has not been the economic mainstay of most families in the recent past, but rather has usually been carried
out as a supplementary activity.  One of the most vulnerable segments of society in the project area are
those living in the rural villages and undertaking subsistence agriculture. Most of these people are the
elderly living on pensions and welfare support that often amounts to only 300 - 400 Kunas /month
(US$45). Perhaps the most vulnerable and poverty-stricken elements of society observed are the Serbs and
Croats who have returned to the rural villages in the Plitvice area in the aftermath of war. Both groups
tend to be dominated by the elderly and live in isolated settlements with limited access to resources.
Civil society participation in enviromnental (or any type of) decision making is weak. The environmental
NGO movement in Croatia is in its early stages of development. While there are numerous entities
identifying themselves as environmental NGOs, they are small and fragmented, and have limited resources
and capacity. There is no tradition of community participation in local decision making. Some residents
expressed resentment because they could no longer use areas, now protected, for economic activities. This
sentiment is limited to the Velebit area, as the other national parks have all been in existence for over 50
years.
The SA identified a broad range of groups and individuals who have a stake in how the Karst ecosystem
resources are managed. They include: (a) government institutions at the national, regional and local levels
(including MEPP, MOAF, HS, Ministry of Tourism, HV); (b) managers of national and nature parks in the
project area; (c) local residents and resource users (farmers, forest users, HS employees, herders, service
providers to national parks and park visitors); (d) national and local NGOs; (e) the academic community
and research institutes; and (e) tourists. Annex 11 identifies and evaluates the role of specific stakeholders
that are most able to influence the project, likely to be most affected by the project, and have potential to
contribute knowledge or others support it. The results of the SA have been used to define activities for the
project as follows:
*   The project aims to establish a sound public participation program and to ensure that decision-making
be decentralized to the local level as much as possible.
*   The KEC project includes, at each of the protected area sites, a "people and parks" integration program
to strengthen the links between the national parks, protected areas and the local populations who live in
and around them. The program will include the development of local, community advisory groups that
include a range of stakeholders (for example, park residents, adjacent communities, park managers,
NGOs). These groups will serve as advisors to the PIU.
*   The project includes a tourism initiative to boost the local economy which includes: baseline research
of supply-side/product; market analysis; survey of tour operators' perceptions (intemational and
national operators); "comparable" evaluation (for example, Slovenia);  identification of, and
packaging, business opportunities; constraints; and an action strategy.
*   The project is a vehicle for rural revitalization by promoting linkages between biodiversity conservation
and rural development issues. The small grants program for rural development provide opportunities
in line with stakeholders' interests and the suitability of the resource base.
*   The project includes, under the small grants program, a specific program for environmental education
- 27 -



and public awareness that will draw upon, and build the capacity of, environmental NGOs.
Specific social outcomes are delineated in Annex 11.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project has been developed with a participatory approach. Beginning with pre-identification, the
World Bank team met with national, regional, and local level government authorities; NGOs; scientists and
academics; research institutes; and local communities to discuss conservation of biodiversity in the karstic
regions of Croatia. The BSAP, which guided identification of the KEC project, itself, was developed
through a participatory process with over 100 stakeholders involved in its preparation. An inter-sectoral
steering committee and counterpart team was established at identification. National and local level
workshops at milestones in project preparation used a participatory process and involved a wide range of
stakeholders. Key stakeholders that participated in the project identification and preparation phase
included representatives from relevant Ministries and Institutions, including Ministry of Environmental
Protection and Physical Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of
Culture, Ministry of Economy, State Directorate of Tourism, State Directorate of Water, Chamber of
Commerce, Croatia Forests, Croatia Waters, private sector tourism, Institute 'Hrvoje Pozar', Croatian
Building Institute Ltd., Geological Research Institute, Natural History Museum, Zagreb University, county
level authorities, local level protected area managers, and representatives of approximately 30 NGOs.
The SA team met with the full range of stakeholders, including Croat and Serb villagers; town residents;
and representatives of community-based organizations (CBOs), nongovernmental organizations (NGOs),
international relief agencies, local businesses, and all levels of government.
Reports of all preparation workshops, including an evaluation by participants, were produced in English
and Croatian, widely disseminated and posted on the MEPP web-site. All preparation reports were
produced in Croatian and English and also posted on the web-site. Results of the preparation reports, as
well as the SA, were discussed in a series of local level meetings. To pilot an approach for local level
dissemination of information during preparation, the project team prepared a brochure "Karst Ecosystems
Conservation: Information on Project Preparation" in Croatian and English, posted the brochure on the
web, and distributed over 500 copies which were discussed in a series of local level meetings. Feedback
from the participants indicated that this was an effective tool in disseminating information and, throughout
project implementation, similar pieces will be produced for discussion purposes. Input from the local and
national level meetings and workshops was incorporated into the final project design which was the topic of
a national workshop (October 2000). The workshop report is on the MEPP web-site. Stakeholders will
participate in the implementation of the project components at all three levels of participation, namely
information sharing, consultation and collaboration as indicated below (also see Annex 11).
*   National Park management and staff will contribute to, and be recipient of, information in a number of
project components that directly affect national parks and biodiversity management and monitoring in
the Karst region. This includes: development of policies and guidelines for the system of protected
areas in the karst; provision of support to newly protected areas; development and implementation of
biodiversity information inventory; development of mapping and monitoring system; strengthening
local PA staff capacity; and the development of regional and international vehicles for cooperation.
Park management will also play an important role in ensuring public awareness of, and subscription to,
the goal of Karst ecosystem conservation, notably through people and parks liaison committees, and
more informally, taking into account local populations' needs in planning park activities.
*   Participation and feedback of local farmers, households, NGOs, and businesses will be integral to the
implementation of demonstration projects on sustainable resource use, to be financed under the CRRG
grants program. This group of stakeholders will also participate in the rural revitalization program, as
- 28 -



recipients of project support and information, as well as members of decision-making committees,
"people and parks" liaison committees and local small grant administration boards.  Local
communities, businesses and county and municipal governments will also collaborate in the preparation
of the management plans of the Velebit Nature Park and Northern Velebit National Park.
*   The public at the national and local levels will be informed about the importance and values of karst
ecosystems through a variety of media, including TV spots, booklets, annual workshops, traveling
exhibition, and a project newsletter. NGOs will play an active role in this effort.
*   Current and potential tourism service providers in the region, tour operators nationwide, protected
areas, the Tourism Institute, and the Ministry of Tourism will both be providers and recipients of
information in the context of the supply/demand analysis of feasibility of nature tourism in the Karst
region and on the carrying capacity and revenue break-even targets for the national parks. The
development of pilot marketing plans and action plans for the nature tourism product in the karst region
will heavily rely on the collaboration of these stakeholders to be most beneficial to sustainable tourism
development in the region.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During project preparation, the SA included NGOs as a key stakeholder group, and a separate study on
public awareness and public participation in biodiversity involved consultations with NGOs. There are
about 150 NGOs dealing with some aspect of the environment in Croatia. A meeting was held during
project identification with environmental NGOs to discuss technical issues on karst biodiversity
conservation and the project objectives. The World Bank and counterpart preparation team has met with
national and local NGOs that are working in the project region to discuss the project and relevant NGO
activities and get input on project design. The project was discussed in a national level meeting between the
Minister of MEPP and 200 members of NGOs (October 13, 2000). NGOs have been included in all
national and local level workshops during project preparation. Two specific project activities have been
designed to be carried out by NGOs, preparation of gnidelines for community and NGO involvement in
biodiversity conservation, and a public awareness and education activity. NGOs will be represented on the
KEC working group and local advisory boards.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The SA identified social development issues, existing structures and mechanisms needed for community
participation in the project and necessary resources, and recommendations on how best to structure and
finance community-based protected area organizations so as to facilitate a partnership with protected area
management, with concerned NGOs, and with county development committees. The implementation of the
project will include the establishment of a community-level local advisory group for each county (3) in the
KEC region. These groups will include local residents and other relevant stakeholders and will convene for
the purpose of consultation on various park and protected area management as well as local planning
issues. The local advisory groups will evaluate CRRG proposals.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will finance periodic SAs to monitor social development outcomes identified in the initial SA
carried out during project preparation. Annex 11 presents a list of social development outcomes and
indicators as well as a plan for social development outcome monitoring and evaluation.
-29 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Appltcablly
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An environmental assessment was prepared under project preparation and is provided in the EMP.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
la. Institutional sustainability
The national government agencies responsible for biodiversity conservation, municipal governments of the
local projects' areas, and the local protected area management and technical staff are in full support of the
project. The project preparation counterpart team includes representatives from local level protected areas,
protected area advisory boards, county management; national level government officials and private sector
experts from biodiversity conservation, forestry, water, agriculture, and tourism.
On the field level, where day-to-day project implementation will occur, the local PIU will work closely with
the directors of the protected areas, as well as the local authorities responsible for physical planning, forest
management, and environmental protection.  The local PIU office is located within the county offices
which manage local level environment, forestry, agriculture and water activities which will contribute to
sustainability. Through capacity building and institutional strengthening and increased coordination
between various implementing agencies at the local, regional and national level, institutional sustainability
has been addressed.
lb. Social sustainability
From its inception the project has tried to involve key stakeholders in project preparation and
implementation, including policy makers, citizens and NGOs, to ensure social sustainability of the project.
Future initiatives aim to involve the local communities by developing activities that will reduce pressure on
the natural resources through effective management and altematives, increase in public awareness and
support for biodiversity conservation. These should also contribute to social sustainability. The inclusion
of a "people and parks" program into each of the five protected areas will ensure community involvement in
decision making. To demonstrate sustainable economic development, compatible with biodiversity
conservation, the components will be responsive to the needs of the local residents. Local advisory boards
- 30 -



for each of the KEC region's three counties will be key players in project implementation.
lc. Financial Sustainability
The Government's contribution to the project of US$3.2 million includes taxes (US$1.3 million); some
investment costs -- facilities and refurbishing costs (US$1.4 million); and US$0.5 million to cover recurrent
costs (staff). The 39% level of government contribution reflects the extremely strong commitment to the
project. The Project incorporates measures to ensure financial sustainability of protected area maintenance
and eco-system conservation in the Karst region. The Government recognizes the importance of
conservation of Karst ecosystems and minimization of the negative impact of protected area visitation for
the sustainability of tourism in the long run. It is committed to ensuring that protected area operations and
maintenance and conservation activities are financed adequately and in a sustained fashion. To this end,
MEPP has decided that in the Plitvice Lakes National Park an adequate amount from the visitor revenues
be dedicated to the above activities. In the Risnjak, Paklenica and Velebit National Parks, where there is
potential for increased at the visitation level, project components, such as demand analysis and marketing
plan development, based on canying capacity assessments, will help improve visitation and hence revenues.
The recent revitalization of tourism to Croatia will be a complimentary, positive factor in this direction. At
times when visitor revenues are insufficient to cover necessary operation and maintenance and conservation
costs, the Govermnent is committed to provide complimentary funding.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Proposed changes in legislation and policy  N        The project will support a national public
not adopted                                          awareness program targeted at key audiences,
including politicians and Parliament, to explain
the benefits of biodiversity conservation and
need for changes in legislation. For the
purposes of EU accession, which Croatia is
discussing, it is mandatory that the
environmental legislation be harmonized with
that of the EU.
Inter-sectoral conflict among agencies     M         Stakeholders will be involved throughout
responsible for land-use and natural                 preparation and implementation of the project to
resource management planning                         build collaboration and support for the project
objectives, design and activities.
Lack of support by local communities and   M         The project will demonstrate the economic
counties for sustainable management and              benefits of using sustainable technologies and
use of Karst ecosystems                              conserving biodiversity.
From Components to Outputs
Delayed contribution of counterpart        M         Periodic visits to MoF to share progress of
financing. Government doesn't allocate               project activities
enough resources to protected areas
MEPP does not allocate adequate (full-     M         Discussions are on-going to ensure that a
time) staff and office facilities for national       full-time national and local PIU are established
and local PIU                                        prior to implementation of the project
- 31 -



Steering Committee not functioning         M         Committee roles and responsibilities clearly
effectively                                          spelled out in PIP.
Strategies developed under project not     M         Performance based criteria used at project
implemented                                          milestones to determine if project should
continue
Hotel debt servicing drains resources from  M         Continue to work with government to ensure
BC in Plitvice Lakes NP                              that an adequate share of PLNP visitor revenues
are allocated to biodiversity conservation.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project will seek to ensure that visitation to the Plitvice Lakes National Park be kept at a level that is
sustainable from a biodiversity conservation point of view. However, due to its large hotel related debt
with annual servicing requirements of US$3-4 million, PLNP management may be inclined to attract more
visitors to the park reaching unsustainable levels. The project will continue to work with the Government to
ensure that the hotel debt is funded from the Government's intemal resources or privatized and tourism is
kept at sustainable levels.
G. Main GrantConditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial Covenants
(a) The PIU will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project financial
management systems by December 31, 2002
(b) The Government will cause the PIl to have its records, accounts, and financial statements audited each
year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 32 -



project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following iteins are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
v_   _   _  _   _  _   _         c    -wt                           _  _   _  _  _   _  _   _  _
Rita Klees                         Laura Tuck                        Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                        Sector Director                   Country Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Key Perfornance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector! country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Protect the environment                              * Parliamentary gazette   Biodiversity protection and
which is crucial for                                                           sustainable natural resource
economic growth and                                  * CAS updates             management contribute to
private sector development                                                     local economic development,
through tourism                                      * Govemment "State of the  and poverty alleviation.
development.                                         Environment" reports;     Political stability and stable
economic development
ESW (occasional)
GEF Operational Program:
To promote conservation of  * Baseline level of globally  * Biodiversity information  Continued Government
biological diversity and   important species, habitats,  and monitoring system  commitment to biodiversity
ecological integrity of   and communities maintained.                          conservation.
mountain, forest, freshwater                         * National biodiversity
ecosystems, and associated                           inventories               Biodiversity conservation
landscapes of karst region  * Regional Collaboration and                       benefits local stakeholders
(OP2, OP3, OP4).          Coordination Program for   * Official gazette
Karst Ecosystem Conservation
established.
Global Objective:         Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Project Development       * Significant reduction in  * Park and natural area  Continued political support
Objective:                destructive practices (list TBD management reports   for biodiversity conservation
based upon results of the  (quarterly)               and sustainable resource use,
Local residents, tourists and  baseline survey).                               despite changes in
other visitors to participating  * Significant increase in the  * Project monitoring reports  Government
parks and natural areas   adoption of environmentally  (quarterly)
refrain from identified   responsible practices by local
destructive practices and  residents, tourists, and other' * Supervision mission
adopt recommended behaviors visitors within the project area reports;
that preserve and protect the
unique features of the natural (Measurable indicators: Level * Evaluation mission reports
environment.              of visitor satisfaction with PA  (MTR & ICR);
services with respect to   * Registration of
biodiversity; number of level  entrepreneurs
of destructive behavior in the  e PA visitor surveys with
PA; level of knowledge of  questionnaires filled out
Croatian karst, species,   before and after visit
habitats, and impact of human
behavior on biodiversity.)
* Improvement in livelihood
and employment generation in
- 34 -



selected communities
(Indicator: Number of
entrepreneurs in the project
region)
Global Objective
Conservation of biodiversity  * Stable or increasing  * Indicator species surveys
and sustainable use of bio  numbers of 2-3 indicator  (annual);
resources in Croatian Karst  species (flora & fauna, to be  * Forest cover mapping
areas.                    identified during preparation) (annual)
* Gradually improved status
of key forest species within
the project area
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Biodiversity Conservation Favorable program review by  * Project monitoring reports  * Legislation and policy
and Resources             intemational panel of experts (quarterly)            adopted, where necessary.
Management:               (mid-term & final)                                   * Legal protection is enforced
Effectiveness of biodiversity                        * Supervision mission     effectively.
conservation and resources                           reports;
management enhanced at
national and local levels.                           * Evaluation mission reports
(MTR & ICR);
2. Conservation and Rural  * Verification that the grant  As above, +
Revitalization Grants     funds were distributed for  * Financial audit report
(CRRG):                   productive purposes and were
Viability of biodiversity  used by beneficiaries as
friendly resource use     intended.
demonstrated among local
stakeholders.
3. Global Karst Network    * Verification that the   As above, +
Participation:            activities were carried out as  Technical audit
Intemational working      planned.
relationships established with
sister institutions to facilitate
information sharing regarding
Karst ecosystems
management approaches.
4. Project Management,     * Timely submission of    As above
Monitoring and Reporting  quality reporting, as required.
Project implementation
successfully completed;
project results adequately
monitored and reported
- 35 -



Key Perfornance      I Data-Collection Strategy                          j
- O     S i0-0- t h-f"Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Biodiversity           US$ 1.83 million          * Project progress reports  * Timely contribution of
Conservation and Resources (of this US$ 1.04 million GEF                      counterpart financing.
Management:               grant funded)             * Bank supervision reports
*  Improve laws &                                                             * MoE maintains adequate
regulatory framework;                               * Disbursement reports    (full time) staff and office
*  Capacity building for                                                      facilities for PIU
biodiversity conservation;                          * Procurement
*  Expanded protection for                          documents/contracts
species and taxa;
*  Biodiversity inventory,                          * Quarterly Project
mapping & monitoring;                               Management Reports (PMR)
Public awareness building
with NGOs
2. Establishment of       US$ 4.88 million
community-based           (of this US$2.89 million GEF
mechanisms for biodiversity grant funded)
conservation and sustainable
resource use in the Karst
region
* Nature based tourism;
* Protected areas
management (NP Plitvice
Lakes, NP Paklenica, NP
Risnjak, NP Northern Velebit,
PN Velebit).
* Conservation and Rural
Revitalization Grants (CRRG)
- Demonstration grants
* Increasing local public
awareness and support for
biodiversity conservation with
active role of NGOs
Regional Cooperation
Programme for Karst
Ecosystem Conservation
3. Project Management,    US$ 1.26 million
Monitoring, & Reporting   (of this US$ 0.78million GEF
grant funded)
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Background
Croatia enjoys unusually rich biodiversity of global significance due to its geography, between the
Mediterranean and Central-European continental climatic regions, and its geology, which is predominantly
karst. The term "karst" originated in Croatia and is applied to a specific landscape and morphology
characterized by the presence of limestone or other soluble rocks, where drainage has been largely diverted
into subterranean routes. The globally prominent Croatian karst ecosystems host 3,500 species of flora
(283 endemic), 12 species of amphibians, 36 species of reptiles, 200 species of resident birds, 79 species of
manmmals, and 64 species of freshwater fish, of which eleven are endemic. Much of Croatia is karstic. The
project selected for its focus, the karst region located within the Dinarid Mountain range, which runs
through Croatia from Slovenia to Bosnia.  The Dinarids include hundreds of sinkholes, chasms,
underground streams, and caves. Its estimated 8,000 caves are among the deepest and most extensive in
the world and render the region a global hot-spot of subterranean biodiversity. These subterranean karst
habitats support an ever increasing list of newly discovered endemic troglodytic (eyeless and adapted for an
entirely subterranean existence) species and families. These include one new species, genus and family of
leech Croatobranchus mestrovi, which was found in a 1300 meter deep cave in the Velebit mountain in
1994. Among the unique species found in Croatian karst ecosystems are the only known cave sponge, the
only known cave calm, and the only known cave polychaete worm.
Croatia is equally famous for its karst freshwater ecosystems which include travertine/tuffa-building
communities of micro-organisms. The resulting travertine barriers, some estimated to be over 40,000 years
old, have led to the spectacular lakes and waterfalls now protected within two national parks, one of which
is also included in the KEC project, Plitvice Lakes National Park.
Large areas of the Dinarids, particularly in the Velebit Mountains, are densely covered by forest
communities of beech, fir, spruce and black pine, a relict alpine sub-species found only in the Velebit area.
The Karst region contains the largest part of unfraginented forest in Croatia (almost 50% of forests), the
integrity of which is evidenced by the presence of viable populations of large carnivores (wolf, brown bear,
and lynx). The Dinarids serve as an important trans-European forest mountain corridor between Slovenia
and Bosnia Herzegovina. The global significance of Croatia's karst ecosystem is evidenced by the
international recognition it has received. Plitvice Lakes National Park is on the UNESCO's World List of
Natural and Cultural Heritage. The Velebit Mountain Range is part of the UNESCO's Man and the
Biosphere Program, and has been identified by the WWF's Forest Hot-spot Initiative as one of the ten most
important forest areas in the Mediterranean region.
The impacts of the threats to the karst ecosystem's biodiversity, with the exception of eutrophication in the
surface waters of Plitvice Lakes National Park, have not been scientifically documented to date, but are
believed by the country's environmentalists to be significant The BSAP and NEAP note that the lack of
systematic inventorying and monitoring of the ecosystem and species status has resulted in an insufficient
basis for determining the exact nature and magnitude of threats to biodiversity. But in the light of observed
habitat changes and fragmentation; water and air pollution; extensive exploitation of natural resources; and
introduction of foreign species experienced in the project region, the BSAP assumes that the karst
ecosystem biodiversity is declining. Both the subterranean and terrestrial karst ecosystems are fragile,
interconnected, and dependent upon the maintenance of a delicate balance between relief, hydrology,
climate and vegetation. The surface ecosystems of predominantly natural forest and traditional pastoral
- 37 -



land generally serve to buffer the subterranean ecosystems but this function can be significantly negatively
impacted by subtle changes in land-use and vegetation cover. For instance, land-use changes can lead to
the rapid influx of water in all parts of a karst cave system resulting in significant changes in the
subterranean ecosystems. In recent years, these threats have been somewhat averted by reduced economic
activity, particularly in tourism and agriculture, during and after the war (1991-96).  Today, post-war
Croatia is on a fast track of economic development, spurred, in part, by a new government (February 2000)
and the opening of EU accession discussions. Tourism, once a mainstay of Croatian economy, has
traditionally been characterized as "mass tourism" as opposed to "nature-based tourism". As the tourism
industry rebounds it could have  serious implications for biodiversity conservation.  Other sector
development projects which commonly negatively impact upon biodiversity, e.g. roads, hydropower, are
also proposed for the project region.
The project development objective is to protect the biodiversity of karst ecosystems in Croatia in a way that
is participatory, economically viable, and integrated with the country's socio-economic goals.
Project Region and Protected Area Sites
The focus of the project region is the Croatian Highlands, which is one of the four major landscape units in
the country and includes the mountain corridor of the Dinarids between Slovenia and Bosnia Herzegovina.
The project region encompasses three counties, Primorje-Gorski Kotar, Lika-Senj, and Zadar. The project
area is primarily rural; over 50% is forested, and 65% has few or no inhabitants. The project area includes
two main municipalities, Gospic and Ogulin, and five small towns and has a total population of
approximately 60,000. The main economic activities in the region are forestry, animal husbandry and
tourism. Agricultural and industrial activities are minimal. In the few areas with tourism, it is the primary
economic activity of the immediate area. The project region provides resources to the coastal towns, and
there are future plans to establish a triangle of highways, inside the project area, connecting major Croatian
cities. Annex 11 - the Social Assessment; and PAD section A.4 give more detailed information about the
socio-eoncomic characteristics of the project region.
Risnjak National Park (NP) is located in the Gorski-Kotar District of the Primorska-Goranska Country,
at the Slovenian border of Croatia to the north-east of the Istria Peninsula and in close vicinity of the resort
town Rijeka. The Park was established in 1953 on 3,200 hectares. In 1997 its area doubled to include the
headwaters and the upper portions of the watershed of the Kupa River. Although is only 1,528 meters
high, Risnjk represents a very strong climatic barrier between the coastal and inland parts of the country.
6100 hectares of the Park are covered by forests comprising thirty flora populations. The Park is a public
company with only 10% of its area being private property. It comprises two villages, one with 300
residents and another with only eight full time inhabitants. The average age of the village populations is
high and depopulation is an ongoing process. The main Rijeka-Zagreb highway is only 15 kilometers
away, which makes Risnjak easily accessible.
The National Park Administration employs 21 full-time staff (of whom 6 are professionals) and carries out
activities in protection, public education and community relations, visitor management and catering (the
Park operates a small-scale hotel-restaurant and mountain huts) and tourism promotion. The Park has a
solid research and resources preservation program. Between 25,000-50,000 people visit the Park annually.
About 40% of the visitors are local, 15% are foreigners and the rest are Croatians from other parts of the
country. The park charges a daily entrance fee of about US$2.00 to adults and US$1.00 to students.
Local residents are not charged a fee for entering the Park. The Park's annual income from visitor fees is
about US$15,000. The salaries of the Park's 21 employees, making up about 50% of current expenditures,
are covered by a transfer from the state budget. Just over the border in neighboring Slovenia, the tourism
- 38 -



and recreational markets are thriving with small businesses engaged in river rafting, kayaking, horseback
riding, etc. Much of this recreation is based upon the Kupa River and begins at the point where the river
flows out of the park at the international boundary. Presumably, similar income generating recreational
activities could be offered on the Croatia/Risnjak side as well.
The Park's buffer zone, defined as the area within 500 meters of the Park's borders, is mostly forested.
The main economic activities are forestry, and to a lesser extent agriculture and tourism services. Hunting,
though prohibited, is carried out excessively, in the buffer zone. The buffer zone does not fall under the
jurisdiction of the National Park Administration.
The main problems facing Risnjak NP in regards to biodiversity conservation are:
* Depopulation of the park area reducing traditional agricultural activities that help maintain existing
biodiversity;
*   Trans-boundary acid rain which has impacted the forests and contaminated the soil
*   Excessive hunting in the buffer zone
*   Insufficient tourism infrastructure and poor roads in the Park
*   Insufficient financial resources
c   Lack of equipment/facilities for monitoring, interpretation, education, camping, hiking
Plilvice Lakes National Park, founded in 1949, is located in the Lika Senj County between the mountain
massif of Mala Kapela and a spur of Licka Pljesivica. Administratively, a minor part of the park falls
within the areas of Slunj, Otocac and Ogulin, but most of it comes under Titova Korenica. The Park's
headquarters is in Plitvice jezera. The park covers an area of 29,482 hectares with a large forest cover of
22,306 hectares; 6,957 hectares of meadows and pastures; and 217 hectares in surface water features, i.e.
lakes, streams, water falls. The Park is famous for its travertine lakes (a series of 16) and the waterfalls
that connect them. A unique phenomenon of karst topography, the lakes have nevertheless remained
surface features. The water largely comes in from the Crna rijeka, Bijela rijeka, and potok Ljiskovac
(black and white rivers, Ljeskovac brook), which flow into the Proscansko jezero (lake). This lake lies at
an altitude of 636 meters above sea level, and the water runs from it through the lower lakes down to the
River Korana, racing over many travertine barriers of various morphological forms, creating countless falls
and rapids. of great beauty. Plitvice forests provide habitat for diverse flora and fauna, including but not
limited to the brown bear, wolves, otter and 126 bird species, of which 70 breed there. 25% of the Park
area is privately owned. The park hosts several small settlements with elderly populations mostly engaged
in basic agricultural activities.
The Park received an average of 750,000 visitors per year in the 1 980s, 90% of whom were foreign tourists
on their way to or on a day trip from coastal resort areas. During the war (1991-1996), the Park was not
operational. In the latter part of the 1990s, visitation recovered to only about 400,000 per year (1999).
However, in 2000, in parallel to the overall recovery of tourism to the Adriatic coast, the visitor numbers
reached 700,000. The park, charges US$5.00 per day to adults, and US$3.00 to students. The Park owns
and operates 3 hotels with a total bed capacity of 722, three restaurants, a motel and a camping facility. A
total of 620 staff are employed in the Park. Revenues from their own resources cover about 97% of the
Park's operating costs. The Govemrnment provides the salaries of three nature protection professionals
which amount to 3% of current expenditures.
The main problems facing Plitvice NP in regards to biodiversity conservation are:
*   Eutrophication of Plitvice Lakes
*   Lack of research and data to document the trend of declining biodiversity;
*   Lack of scientific information to adequately assess state of biodiversity through the park;
- 39 -



*   Lack of an adequate park management plan, including a business management plan;
*   Damaged trails, hiking infrastructure, boardwalks;
*   Lack of promotional/educational/interpretation materials;
*   Low public awareness in local communities of conservation;
*   Lack of a center for promotion, presentation and education.
Velebit Nature Park
The Velebit Nature Park and world bio-sphere reserve was established in 1981. It covers 200,000 hectares
in the Lika-Senj and Zadar County. The exact borders of the park have not been established legally. The
area of the park encompasses the entire Velebit mountain range including the coastal area with villages and
tourist settlements. The Nature Park also houses the Paklenica National Park, Northern Velebit National
Park, as well as a number of other protected areas: the Hajducki and Rozanski Kukovi Strict Reserve
(1,220 hectares), the Zavizan-Balinovac kosa Special Botanic Reserve (118 hectares), the Velebit Botanic
Garden (50 hectares) and Stirovica Special Forest Reserve (117 hectares). The Velebit Nature Park
encompasses the most important parts of the Dinarid Mountains in terms of relief and vegetation. Forests
occupy nearly 75% of the Nature Park. 10% of the national park area is private property mainly in the
coastal and southern part of the protected area.
Although established two decades ago, the Velebit Nature Park is still at the beginning stage of planning
and development which provides the KEC project with a vehicle to demonstrate new protected area
management planning systems and processes. There is a need to being a process that will integrate the
park with local communities and villages. At present, the park is staffed with a director, manager, and
three rangers. Economic activities in the Velebit Nature Park include forest operations which are controlled
by Hrvatske Sume (HS). The forest management approach, including timber harvest level, is a
controversial issue between the HS and Velebit NP management the resolution of which can be catalyzed
by the KEC project. Through the protected area management plan developed by the KEC project for the
Nature Park; NGO support through the project; regional planning and development inclusion of
biodiversity concerns; grant funding for demonstration projects linking activities such as forestry, with
biodiversity conservation, the KEC project will help resolve issues relating to conflicting use of natural
resources in the Velebit. As in other rural areas in the KEC project, economic opportunities in the region
are extremely limited, and local people are leaving for greater opportunities elsewhere. support for the park
will increase to the extent that tourism can be generated.
Tourism is very limited, and undocumented. The local mountaineering club, based in Gospic, guides
several hundred visitors per year to various sites in the nature park. Due to lack of an administrative
structure and legal basis, visitors are not charged an entrance fee as yet.
The most important problems and issues facing the Velebit Nature Park are:
*   Lack of an administrative system and visitor management system (administration building, personnel,
management plan);
* Insufficient government budget to hire personnel, acquire monitoring and other equipment and develop
nature tourism facilities;
*   Lack of facilities and infrastructure to attract nature tourists;
*   Poaching and poisoning of game animals;
*   Environmental degradation due to exploitation of minerals, solid waste landfills, and uncontrolled
housing development on the coast;
*   Landmine remnants, especially in the southem and south-eastem Velebit area;
-40-



* Lack of an ecologically integrated approach to forest operations;
* Need to define and register the exact NP borders;
*   Lack of promotional, education, interpretive information and services in the Park.
Paklenica National Park is located within the Velebit Nature Park, on the southern, sea-facing side of the
Velebit Range. Its total size area is 3600 hectares, with about 2/3 of the territory in Zadar County and the
rest in Lika Senj County. Administratively, it is within the area of the city of Zadar, while the park
headquarters and visitor center are in Starigrad Paklenica, a coastal tourist destination. Founded in 1949,
this is the second oldest national park in Croatia. Unlike the slightly older Plitvice NP, it has not suffered
from the consequences of excessive use and hotel waste impacts. Management of the Park is clearly the
most balanced in Croatia, and the KEC project will foster transfer of this know-how to the other national
parks. Paklenica is a particularly interesting part of the Velebit by reason of its richness of natural
phenomena.     The Park includes mountain landscapes including the highest peaks of Velebit,
geomorphologically rich rocks, numerous caves, and two deep mountain gorges. Steep cliffs up to 400
meters high draw technical climbers from around Europe. Some 300 climbing routes have been identified
and established in one of the two main canyons in the park. The other canyon, which also contains
appealing routes for climbing, is closed to climbing, for conservation purposes. Climbing is well managed
however there remains the challenge of rescuing lost/injured climbers. world. Most (60%) of the area is
covered by forest. Because of its geographical position and variations in altitude, there is a great diversity
of vegetation in the park. There is the stone scrub and maquis of the coastal region; then broad, low woods
that become high forests in the interior. Above them are beech and juniper forests; and then mountain
meadows stretching up to the highest peaks. The Park also has richly varied flora ranging from
Mediterranean to high Alpine. Paklenica National Park provides habitat for a number of animals and
insects, including but not limited to the endangered Griffin vulture, bears, pine and beech marten, wild cat,
wild boar, reptiles and mountain butterflies. The Park is an active participant in a regional and
international effort to support reestablishment of a stable population of the endangered Griffon Vulture, an
endangered species in Croatia. Local residents, in attempts to poison wolves, which the vultures feed on,
contribute to their decline.
The Park employs 20 full time workers and 10 part time (summer) workers. In addition to protection and
research, park staff are engaged in visitor management, notably climbers and cave visitors.
In 2000, the Park had about 70,000 visitors which is nearly double the number of visitors in 1999. Of
these visitors, an estimated 1/3 were rock climbers, another 1/3 visited the Manita Pec Cave, and the rest
were hikers and students. It is estimated that 50% of the visitors arrived from coastal resorts. Park
management believes that annually 100,000 and daily 600 visitors could be managed by the Park in an
environmentally sustainable manner. Currently most visitation occurs in August when the average daily
number of visitors is 1,000. Management's goal is to reach the annual sustainable visitor level and at the
same time spread visitation more evenly across the months. The buffer zone of the national park offers
potential for bed and breakfast operations to support increased tourism.
The Park charges about US$3.00 entrance fee per person to adult visitors. It also operates a camping site
by the management building in Starigrad and charges about US$10.00 per night per tent. Revenues from
entrance and camping fees make up about 60-70 % of the current expenditures. A public company, the
Park receives the rest form the Government in the form of a budget transfer.
The main problems of Paklenica National Park in terms of biodiversity conservation are:
*   Hunting of park-protected animals, especially of the endangered griffon vulture;
-41 -



*   Poaching of large mammals on high elevations;
* Uncontrolled alpinist behavior and related accidents;
* Lack of biodiversity data, research and mapping;
* Need for rehabilitation and equipment in the visitor/interpretation center;
* Need for rehabilitation and expansion of the trail system.
Northern Velebit National Park
The North Velebit National Park was established in 1999 and is located in the central part of the Velebit
Nature Park. It is staffed with a director, manager and one ranger. Being a very new park, there is no
management plan; no registered visitor system; and the park is fully funded by the state budget. The main
issues for the Northem Velebit NP are to get the Park up and running. To do this effectively, the Park
needs:
* A management plan including a financing strategy;
*   Basic infrastructure -- remodeling of an existing building to establish a visitor center;
*   Construction of Filed works, e.g. trails, camp sites;
* visitor center, field, monitoring and office equipment;
*   A business/tourism plan;
* Promotional/education/interpretive equipment;
* Mechanisms for community and NGO involvement in park decision making.
The Project and Its Components
The project's global objective is to protect the biodiversity of karst ecosystems in a way that is
participatory, community-based, economically viable, and integrated with the country's socioeconornic
goals. The project's development objective is: Local residents, tourists and other visitors to participating
national parks and other protected areas refrain from practices identified as detrimental to biodiversity
conservation and adopt recommended behaviors that preserve and protect the unique features of the karst
environment. The project will strengthen institutional and technical capacity for biodiversity conservation;
integrate biodiversity conservation into management plans and sectoral strategies; improve management of
protected areas; and promote entrepreneurial and tourism activities to support rural revitalization and
biodiversity conservation; and increase civil participation in decision making processes. Accordingly, the
three project components and their sub-components are:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.83 million
GEF US$1.04 million; GOC US$0.79 million)
Building national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support natural resource management.
(i) Strengthening of laws and regulatory framework (lJS$0.02m). The project will finance a review and/or
revision of biodiversity-related regulations and sectoral strategies to incorporate biodiversity conservation
concems. The project will finance training in the use of the guidelines to staff from relevant government
agencies, including the Ministry of Forestry and Agriculture, Ministry of Tourism, Croatia Forests (HS),
Croatia Waters (HV); physical planners; and protected area staff; as well as NGOs and citizens.
(ii) Strengthening national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation (US$0.32m). The project will
finance preparation of protected area management and planning guidelines which include biodiversity
-42-



concerns; guidelines for community and NGO participation in protected area management; a protected
area system market analysis, promotion and marketing plan; a protected area financing strategy; and a pilot
project on biodiversity information dissemination. The project will develop and conduct a national ranger
training program.
(iii) Expansion of species and taxa under legal protection (US$0.18m). Project preparation studies found
that there are two areas in the project region which could be eligible for protected area status; Ogulin and
the Kupa Valley. The project will finance feasibility studies for these areas including an analysis of
biodiversity in Ogulin and water management issues related to biodiversity conservation; equipment for
underwater biodiversity monitoring; and revision of the list of taxa under legal protection in these two
areas.
(iv) Biodiversity inventory, mapping and monitoring (US$1.14m). The project will finance consultant
services and equipment for inventory and mapping of the biodiversity priority areas (identified by the
BSAP and Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey); a specific inventory of the biodiversity of caves in the
project region and necessary equipment for such; a study of cave hydrology in the project region; conduct
a monitoring program for large camivores in the project region. The project will finance the development
of a GIS for the project region, the database, and training for staff in its use.
(v) Increasing public awareness and support for biodiversity (US$0.17m). The project will finance
development of a public awareness strategy; development of a WEB site and TV spots on biodiversity
conservation; a guide to karst biodiversity; annual workshops/festivals on biodiversity conservation; and
preparation of a traveling exhibition on biodiversity and the KEC Project.
Project Component 2 - US$4.88 million
GEF US$2.88 million; GOC US$1.99 million
Establish communitybased mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use in
the karst region
The project will support measures to preserve the globally significant biodiversity in the Karst region
through community level activities and capacity building for protected area management. Activities to
meet this objective fall into three sub-components:
(i) Promotion of sustainable nature based tourism in karst region (US$0.21m). The project will finance
development of a local level tourism strategy which includes determination of the nature-based tourism
potential in the region and economic opportunities in tourism; a visitor management plan for protected area;
and preparation and field works on the European-6 (E-6) hiking trail through the project region (E-6 is a
branch of a larger network of hiking trails which spans Europe).
(ii) Increased localpublic awareness and supportfor biodiversity conservation (US$0.08m). The
project will finance preparation of national park promotion materials for park visitors, local population,
and schools; preparation of field guides for the project region; and fund a small grants program for NGO
sponsored activities related to public awareness.
(iii) Improving protected area management and services for biodiversity conservation (US$3.86m). The
project will finance activities which are common to all the protected areas, and activities specific to the
individual park's needs and aspirations. In each of the five protected areas in the project region, the project
will finance refurbishing of existing visitor structures, information kiosks, and research facilities (where
-43 -



they already exist); a "people and parks" program, each to be designed specific to the protected area and
intended to ensure direct, community involvement in the decision making process; field works, e.g. trails,
signs; data acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment, e.g. computers, GIS software; field
equipment, e.g. field telephone, binocular, staff uniforms, safety equipment; essentials for monitoring
programs; and staff development in skills such as interpretation, education, monitoring, research. The
project will finance distinct investments/activities in each of the five protected areas, as follows:
Plitvice NP (US$0.45m): The project will fnance preparation of a park management plan; laboratory
equipment for the research facility; and mowing equipment.
Paklenica NP (US$0.35m): The project will fiance the "Recovery of the Eurasian Vulture (Gyps
fulvus) Project" by providing equipment, education material, and monitoring equipment.
Risnjak NP (US$0.39m): The project will finance rescue equipment, horses and equipment; a traveling
exhibit; camp site facilities.
North Velabit NP (US$1. 65m): The project will finance preparation of a park management plan.
Velebit Nature Park (US$1.02m): The project will finance preparation of a park management plan;
field vehicles; mountain shelters, camp sites, and fire control equipment.
(iv) Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program  (US$0.57m).  The objective of this
sub-component is to demonstrate linkages between rural development, tourism and biodiversity
conservation. The main activity under this sub-component is the financing of the Conservation and Rural
Revitalization Grants (CRRG) program which is designed to enable groups and individuals to carry out
activities that contribute to achieving the goals and objectives of the KEC project. The CRRG program
will support entrepreneurial projects demonstrate linkages between sustainable use of natural resources,
economic development and biodiversity conservation. US$500,000 will be available for grants to farmers,
artisans, entrepreneurs, businesses, NGOs. Public-private partners or NGOs in partnership with others are
also eligible.
The goal of the CRRG project is to encourage projects in biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of
biological resources in the KEC project region; community development and increased civil society
participation in biodiversity conservation; and NGO activity in conservation. The specific objectives of
the CRRG program are to:
*      Enhance the objectives and activities of the KEC project by supporting community based initiatives
which address the KEC goal;
•      Demonstrate the link between the objectives of conservation and tangible benefits for local
communities;
*      Develop replicable approaches to economic development which ensures biodiversity conservation;
*      Strengthen new and emerging local civic groups and NGOs in order to promote biodiversity
conservation;
*      Test innovative approaches and technologies to biodiversity conservation; and
*      Establish partnership between local communities, protected areas administrations, NGOs and PlUs
to promote sustainable development of local communities in the KEC project area
The CRRG program is open to any qualifying body operating in, or located within, the defined KEC
project region. The following types of organizations are eligible to apply:
*      Private sector - companies, businesses, and scientific institutions (both foreign, and locally
owned), and individuals
- 44 -



*      Governmental sector - companies, local, provincial and national authorities, state scientific
institutions
*      Non-Govermmental sector - local and National NGOs, local associations
Grants would support a range of activities that conform to the overarching biodiversity conservation
objectives of the KEC project. Given the nature of participatory planning which provides the flexibility for
communities to decide their own priorities, the CRRG operations manual does not prescribe a precise range
of sub-projects, but expects that broadly three categories of projects will be proposed: (i) small business
and infrastructure investments, (ii) capacity building and business management, (iii) environmental
education and public awareness. The projects proposed will be categorized into one of three categories:
*      Small grants - up to US$2,000 for the small projects. These are expected to be used largely by
individuals. * Medium grants - up to US$ 10,000
*      Large grants - up to US$25,000
. Successful proposals will demonstrate:
*      Benefits to biodiversity conservation
*      Benefits to the livelihood of local people
*      Activities bringing benefits to the project region
*      Compatibility with other GEF project activities
*      Catalytic role of the project
*      Positive environmental effect on the karst ecosystem
*      Efficiency in achieving tangible results with verifiable indicators
*      An activity that can be replicated on a larger scale
*      A realistic plan describing how maintenance and operational expenses (if applicable) will be
financed after the grant period
*      A clear time-line describing the implementation of the project
Criteria for rant fundine: Criteria will be determined during the first year of the program, but could
include:
*      Investment should relieve pressures on community natural resource base
*      Should be beneficial to the majority of community
*      Must be financially feasible
*      Involve low risk
*      Proven technology unless designated as a demonstration or pilot technology
*      Developed markets and good access to markets
*      Must be environmentally friendly with no significant environmental impacts
*      Must not increase unsustainable pressures on natural resource base or utilization of biodiversity
resources from protected areas (e.g. increase in livestock numbers, collection of medicinal plants
and wild rare and protected species)
*      Must be owned and implemented by commnunity groups, or private and not by the protected areas
*      Should be compatible with the protected areas, buffer zone management plans, forest management
plans, and tourism strategy, once they become available
*      Funding proposals should focus on target communities or community groups living in the buffer
zones and vicinity of the PA, or make explanation for exception
-45 -



Details of the CRRG program can be found in the draft operations manual attached to the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). Completion of the final CRRG operations manual will be a condition of
disbursement for the grants. This sub-component will also finance a local cattle breeds protection
program; and rehabilitation of the Gacka river springs facility which is a cultural heritage and biodiversity
conservation site as these two activities are designed to demonstrate linkages between sustainable
development and conservation.
(v) Regional cooperation programme for karst ecosystem conservation (US$0.16m).  Under this
sub-component partnerships with Croatia's neighbors, particularly Slovenia (Risnjak and Kupa River
Project), will be financed to encourage and support transboundary solutions to biodiversity conservation.
The project will finance the inventory and monitoring of the biodiversity of springs, groundwater, caves,
meadows, forests and cliffs of the border region between Croatia and Slovenia in the Risnjak National Park
region. It will finance the preparation of the Risnjak National Park Management plan in coordination with
Slovenia. The project will finance a tourism marketing plan for the Croatia/Slovenia border region;
promotional materials; international workshops; and participation of protected area staff in karst
workshops. The project will finance study tours to European countries including France; and participation
in international and regional workshops, training, partnership activities, and conferences.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.30 million
GEF US$ 0.78 million; GOC US$0.48 million
Project Management and Monitoring
The MEPP will have overall responsibility for implementation of the five year project. A national level
project implementation unit (PIU) will be established in the MEPP Division of General Environmental
Policy. The PIU will build on the existence of the KEC project preparation implementation unit. The PIU
will be responsible for all procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project as
well as oversee the work of consultants, organize seminars and training. The PIU will be responsible for
coordinating with other donors in the implementation of components which will be supported through
parallel and co-financing. It will also be responsible for all reporting requirements to the Bank and the
Government. It will be staffed by a project director, procurement and disbursement specialist, financial
specialist and an assistant, funded under the project.
The project would also finance a local PIU office in Gospic, the county seat of Lika Senj. The local PIU
office, provided by the government, will be in the county departnent office building which houses local
offices for all sectors and for physical planning. This will facilitate local level inter-sectoral coordination
and planning. Furthermore, since Gospic has been identified by county officials as the best location for a
proposed regional development pole, locating a PIU here offers the potential to coordinate the project with
county development plans. The local PIU will be responsible for day-to-day project implementation and
local level coordination. The local PIU will be staffed by a project coordinator and assistant funded by the
project. The local level PIU will report directly to the national PIU. Staffing and technical decisions for
the local PIU will be the responsibility of the MEPP Division of Nature Protection.
The PIU would be assisted by an inter-agency Project Steering Committee established prior to negotiations.
The Steering Committee consists of representatives from relevant Ministries and institutions, including
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, State
Department for Water, and the directors of the protected areas covered by the project. The Steering
Committee would be responsible for providing project oversight advice, inter-ministerial coordination, and
assistance in resolving issues associated with project implementation. The Minister for Environmental
Protection and Physical Planning will be chairman for this committee.
-46 -



Local advisory groups from each of the three main project regions (Plitvice, Paklenica, and the Velebit),
selected by, and comprised of, representatives of key stakeholder groups, will also assist the PIU. The
functions of the national and local PIU and the terms of reference of staff are included in Annex I of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
NOTE: For the project overall, a total of US$0.41 million of which GEF is financing US$0.37 million has
been set aside in unallocated funds for contingencies is not reflected in the component costs given in this
Annex.
-47 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
-L.  . ..   For.i~i        Total
Project Cost By Component                US Smllon     US $~    -   US $rnilion
Component I - national capacity building                   1.47          0.36         1.83
Component 2 - decentralized conservation                   3.81          1.07         4.88
Component 3 - project management                           1.23         0.03          1.26
Unallocated                                                0.40          0.00         0.40
0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                        6.91          1.46         8.37
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs'              6.91          1.46         8.37
Total Financing Required               6.91          1.46         8.37
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.13 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 7.24 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost shaing Tatio is 70.06% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-48 -



Annex 4
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
Overview
1. The general objective of the GEF alternative is to protect and conserve karst ecosystems in Croatia.
The project development objective is to protect the biodiversity of karst ecosystems in Croatia in a way
that is participatory, economically viable, and integrated with the country's socio-economnic needs. The
GEF alternative will: (a) build national capacity in biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource
use; and (b) establish community-based mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and sustainable
resource use in the Karst region. This will include: a review and revision of the legal and regulatory
framework to incorporate biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource use; strengthening
the national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation; promoting public awareness and support for
biodiversity conservation with active role of NGOs; incorporating biodiversity conservation in land-use
plans, land development and natural resource use in the Karst region; establishing effective planning
and management systems for protected areas; demonstration of linkages between rural development and
biodiversity conservation; and establishing a Regional Cooperation Programme for Karst Ecosystem
Conservation. The GEF Alternative intends to achieve these outputs at a total incremental cost of
US$8.37 million to be financed by the GEF (US$5.07 million) and the Croatian Government (US$3.30
million). The proposed GEF Alternative should be viewed as complementary to ongoing activities in
the karst Region of Croatia.
Context and Development Goals
2. Located between the Mediterranean and central-European continental climatic regions with a
predominantly karst geology, Croatia enjoys unusually rich biodiversity. Karst is a term applied to
regions characterized by the presence of limestone or other soluble rocks, where drainage has largely
diverted into subterranean routes. Its existence is dependent upon the maintenance of a balance
between relief, hydrology, climate and vegetation. The Dinarid Mountain range, which runs through
Croatia from Slovenia to Bosnia, is one of the best known karst regions in the world and the term
"karst" originated there. The karst features in the Dinarids include hundreds of sinkholes, chasms,
underground streams, cavities and an estimated 8,000 caves. Croatian cave systems are among the
deepest and most extensive in the world and contain subterranean pools, lakes, streams and rivers.
Sites included in the project area have received international recognition. Notably, (i) the Velebit
Mountain range (within the Dinarids) is part of the UNESCO's Man and the Biosphere Program and
has been identified by the WWF's Hot Spot Initiative as one of the ten most important forest areas in
the Mediterranean region; and (ii) Plitvice Lakes National Park is on UNESCO's global list of Natural
and Cultural Heritage.
3. The biodiversity of the Croatian karst ecosystem is of global significance and hosts 3,500 species
of flora (283 endemic), 12 species of amphibians, 36 species of reptiles, 200 species of resident birds,
79 species of mammals, and 64 species of freshwater fish (11 endemic). Croatia's subterranean karst
habitats support an ever increasing list of newly discovered endemic and troglodytic (eyeless and
adapted for an entirely subterranean existence) species and families, including one new species, genus
and family of leech Croatobranchus mestrovi, found in a 1300 meter deep cave of the Velebit
mountain in 1994. A great number of relict species and taxa of flora, originating from the tertiary
-49 -



period, survived in Croatia's montane forest and pasture ecosystems because the area was never
glaciated. This also resulted in a prevalence of a higher diversity of aquatic fish than in other parts of
Europe. The karst freshwater ecosystems also include travertine/tuffa-building communities of
micro-organisms. The resulting travertine barriers, some estimated to be over 40,000 years old, have
led to the spectacular lakes and waterfalls now protected within two National Parks. Large areas of the
Dinarids, particularly in the Velebit are densely covered by forest communities of beech, fir, spruce and
black pine, a relict alpine sub-species found only in the Velebit area. The karst region contains the
largest part of unfragmented forest in Croatia (almost 50% of forests), the integrity of which is
evidenced by the presence of viable populations of carnivores (wolf, brown bear, and lynx). The
Dinarids are also an important trans-European forest mountain corridor between Slovenia and Bosnia
Herzegovina.
Baseline Scenario
4. Croatia gained independence from the former Yugoslavia in 1991. In 1993, the Government
launched a successful stabilization program bringing down inflation and stabilizing the exchange rate.
However, by 1998, the initially buoyant economy slowed down and in 1999 it contracted (by 0.3%).
There were two main reasons for this. First, the progress made in public finance reforms, and in the
banking and enterprise sectors was inadequate. Second, the earlier economic growth was based largely
on reconstruction efforts and domestic consumption, instead of investments that would have enhanced
the country's competitiveness. This, in turn, contributed to the current account deficit which has been
financed increasingly from extemal borrowing, thereby leading to a rapid build up in extemal debt. In
early 2000, a newly elected government and a new President came to power promising economic
restructuring and stabilization, and stronger integration with the westem world. This year has also
brought some positive developments in the economy. Notably, the GDP started to grow again mainly
thanks to local consumption, exports to the EU and a major increase in tourism, especially to the
Dalmatian coast. Moreover, arrears in govenmment payments, in particular to farmers, have been
reduced. Macroeconomic stability has been sustained. The growth in the rate of inflation has been
contained in the range of 3-40%. The most important economic challenges facing the Government are
large scale unemployment which now stands at about 20% of the workforce which is even higher in
rural areas and among older sections of the populations is even higher. Coupled with a troubled
pension system and high levels of relative poverty and inequality, unemployment carries the potential of
social tensions. Govenmment's fiscal revenues remain low. Another problem that the Government
needs to address is the very low level of investments and nearly nonexistent financial intermediation
which is largely the cause of the former. Foreign direct investments remain low as well.
5. The key environmental policy issue for the govemrnment is how to manage the country's future
growth and development, while protecting the environment. Central issues include: the strengthening
of environmental agencies, management and enforcement of environmental protection; and integration
of enviromnental concems into sector policies and plans. In February 2000, the Government
established the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (MEPP) and included
within it the agency formerly responsible for environmental protection, the State Directorate for the
Protection of Nature and the Environment (SDPN), and the Ministry of Physical Planning. By virtue
of elevating the main organization in charge of environment from a state directorate to a ministry, the
govenmment has given a strong signal that it is serious about its commitment to the environment. The
major environmental legislation, the Law on Nature Protection is being revised, broadening the
mandate of environmental protection to a more proactive approach, emphasizing sustainable
development and use of natural resources. In support of this objective, MEPP has established a
department for Sustainable Use of Natural Resources. An Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant
- 50 -



is helping the Government to prepare its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) designed to
detail environmental priorities and set the basis for future cooperation. A Bank/GEF Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan (BSAP) was prepared in 1999.
6. The same karst ecological conditions, which have led to the development of rich subterranean
biodiversity, also render the area extremely susceptible to environmental impacts. Due to the rapid
influx of water throughout a karst cave system, subtle changes in land-use and vegetation cover on the
surface can result in immediate and sometimes catastrophic changes in the subterranean ecosystems.
Currently in Croatia, surface land is predominantly natural forest and traditional pastoral land, which
provides a buffer for the subterranean ecosystems. However, in the absence of mechanisms to ensure
sustainable land-use practice, the buffer provided by these surface ecosystems could easily be
damaged, and the subterranean ecosystems could quickly and negatively be affected. Consequently, the
threats to the biodiversity of the Karst region relate to the existing and potential changes in land-use
that would remove the buffer that protects the subterranean ecosystem or directly impact the montane
forest and pasture ecosystems and aquatic species of the Adriatic watershed.
7. BSAP identifies the principal threats to Croatia's unique biodiversity as habitat transformation,
fragmentation and degradation; and pollution including solid waste and waste water, road construction
and drainage associated with tourism and municipal developments. These are compounded by a weak
institutional policy and legal framework for the protection and conservation of biodiversity, limited
institutional capacity for conservation management, lack of collaboration between sectors to
sufficiently incorporate biodiversity conservation into physical and land-use and sectoral strategies, and
a general lack of environmental awareness and the importance of Croatian karst biodiversity.
8. Under the baseline scenario, it is expected that the Government of Croatia expenditures related to
ecosystems mnanagement biodiversity conservation in the project area over the period of the project will
be approximately US$24.131 million. These expenditures are detailed as follows.
i. The Directorate for Nature Protection of the Ministry of Environment and Physical Planning
will spend an estimated US$9.43 1 million on central and protected area level operating costs, nature
protection and sustainable natural resource use programmes, wildlife damage compensation to local
populations.
ii. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry considers the karst region as an area of strategic
importance for grazing in open grasslands. It promotes livestock keeping by proving higher than
national level subsidies for cows, pigs, sheep, horse and milk. Promotion of grazing on highlands and
hence the enlargemnent of meadows is beneficial to biodiversity conservation as about 50 % of the local
flora is adapted to open landscapes rather than forests ecosystems. The total cost of these subsidies
over the project period may be estimated as US$12.981 million.
iii. The Croatian Selection Centre for Domestic Animals (HSSC) of MOAF coordinates and
finances a program geared towards protecting autochthonous, endangered breeds of sheep, cow, horse
and goat in Croatia. Among these breeds is the Lika Pramenka sheep which like other local breeds that
were selected during the last centuries to survive hard conditions are important for the protection of the
karst grassland areas. Breeders of Lika Pramenka and other domesticated species under protection
receive an annual subsidy. According to HSSC, in 1999 the total subsidy payments made in the
Licko-Senjska and Primorsko-Goransk counties was equivalent to US$387 thousand. Assuming that
the same annual outlays will be made by HSSC during the 5 year project period, the total sum may be
estimated as US$1.720 million.
-51 -



9. The National Parks located in the KEC Project area are expected to allocate their own resources
(mainly from visitor fees) to biodiversity protection within their borders. These expenditures may be
conservatively estimated as US$1.691 million over the project period.
10. A number of natural resource management and biodiversity conservation activities in Croatia are
being financed by other international development agencies, or will be under implementation during
part or all of the proposed GEF project:
i. The World Bank Coastal Forest Reconstruction and Protection (CFRP) Project has been
under implementation since 1996 and is scheduled to close in June 2002. Its main objective is to
restore and protect forest lands in the coastal zone of Croatia in order to enhance landscape and
recreation values of the region. There is partial geographical overlap with the KEC Project. The
CFRP Project is supporting reforestation activities that are believed to allow for the return of the native
climatic forest communities after one rotation. The project is spending a total of US$2.2 million on
this component. It is estimated that about 20% of this amount, or US$440 thousand, account for
biodiversity conservation in the KEC Project area. The CFRP Project is also investing US$40 million
in improving the existing fire management system to enhance the capacity of fighting annually
recurrent large scale fires. Given limited geographical overlap, it is estimated that 10% of this amount,
or US$4 million, may be considered as part of the baseline for the KEC Project.
ii. The Government of the Netherlands has provided trust funds in the amount of US$300 thousand
to support the preparation for and introduction of forest product certification in Croatia. Certification
will contribute significantly to the introduction of sustainable management practices in Croatian forests
which will also ensure due attention to biodiversity conservation..
iii. The Ecological Center Large Carnivore Program monitors and protects bears, wolves and lynx
in the Karst region. The annual funding of this program amounts to approximately US$23 thousand
and is projected to continue over the KEC Project period of 2001-2005. The total baseline cost is
estimated as US$115 thousand. Of this amount, about US$64 thousand will be provided from the
Croatian Central budget, US$29 thousand from Swiss grant funds and about US$23 thousand from
German grant funds.
11. Despite being completed before the implementation of the KEC Project, the BSAP should be
considered as part the of the baseline scenario since most of its findings provided the basis for the
project. The KEC Project will implement recommendations made in the BSAP. The production of
BSAP cost approximately US$ 170 thousand, of which USS102 thousand was a GEF grant and the rest
Government of Croatia contribution.
12. The NEAP the Government of Croatia is in the process of preparing and which will have
biodiversity conservation as one of its components is also considered part of the baseline since it will
further strengthen the institutional basis for the attainment of the KEC Project objectives. Of the
US$273 thousand IDF grant, approximately US$35 thousand will account for biodiversity
conservation related action planning.
13. Although not considered part of the baseline sirce thev are not within the KEC project area, the
following projects are noted for their contribution to biodiversity conservation in Croatia:
i. Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe is carrying out a
- 52 -



transboundary project within the Regional Environmental Reconstruction Program of the Stability
Pact. The US$1.45 million project is called Promotion of Networks and Exchanges in the Countries of
South Eastern Europe, financed by the Swiss Agency for Cooperation and Development and
includes biodiversity protection in the Neretva River Area of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The component will be implemented in 2000-2001 and cost approximately US$98 thousand.
ii. The Ministry of Science and Technology will spend US$138 thousand to finance the following
biodiversity-related projects:
* Biological and ecological characteristics of Vransko lake in Cres Island
* Biodiversity protection of the Adriatic Sea
* Characteristic species and coastal ecosystems in South Adriatic
* Research on Adriatic Sea mammals
* Structural and metabolic characteristics of phytoplancton in Adriatic
* Mariculture: biological, genetic and ecological valuation
* Ecology and protection of endangered national ornitofauna
* Creation and transformation processes of organic matter in Adriatic
* Vegetation map of Croatia
* Review of ichtyosystems and fish population dynamics in coastal waters
* Biodiversity of selected areas in Adriatic
* Insects population in coastal area and island of Croatia
*   Long-term changes mechanisms in North Adriatic
* Fauna of Croatian Adriatic islands
14. Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$30.88 million
including US$30.39 million from the Government of Croatia, US$0.44 million through international
cooperation and US$0.05 million from national and international NGOs.
15. Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in improvements in the legal and
institutional framework for biodiversity conservation. Furthermore, in the Karst region important
measures will be taken to enhance resource management, through: on-going MEPP support to
protected areas and sustainable resource use; incentives for the protection of autochthonous livestock
breeds; protected areas recurrent expenditures on the resource conservation; improvement in the
capacity to prevent recurrent large scale fires that have negative impacts on forest eco-systems; and the
protection of large carnivores. However, additional resources are needed to enhance the information
base, monitoring and management planning for and public participation in the conservation of globally
significant Karst ecosystems. The GEF grant will address these issues at the local and national levels.
Global Environmental Objective
16. The GoC ratified the Convention of Biological Diversity in 1996. The World Bank/GEF
Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan (BSAP), completed in 1999, identifies "the preservation of the
existing values of the biological and landscape diversity of the Karst region as an area of global value
and ensuring the coordinated management of all natural resources in this area" as a strategic objective.
17. Scope. The GEF Alternative would build on the baseline scenario and make possible activities and
programs that would not be undertaken under the Baseline Scenario. This would include strengthening
capacity at the field and national levels for planning and managing land-use for conservation and
- 53 -



sustainable use of biodiversity; establishing effective inter-sectoral participatory planning and
sustainable management of natural ecosystems and associated landscapes at selected project sites and
thus protecting key freshwater, forest mountain and coastal ecosystems; supporting participatory
approaches to sustainable natural resources conservation in key protected areas; supporting
environmental education and awareness programs; developing mechanisms to reduce non-sustainable
resource use; and promoting ecotourism development.
18. Costs. The total costs of the GEF alternative is estimated at US$39.25 million, detailed as follows:
[Note: A total of US$0.41 million - of which GEF financing US$ 0.37 million - has been set aside in
unallocated funds for contingencies and is not reflected in the component costs given in this Annex.]
i. Building national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support sustainable resource use:
Legal and regulatory framework review and subsequent revisions to incorporate biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use of natural resources (Law on Nature Conservation and other sectoral
laws); strengthening the national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation; increasing public
awareness and support for biodiversity conservation with active role of NGOs - US$2.34 million (GEF
financing: US$1.04 million);
ii. Establishment of community-based mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and sustainable
resource use in the Karst region: Incorporating biodiversity conservation in land-use plans, land
development and natural resource use in the Karst region; effective planning and management systems
for protected areas; demonstration of linkages between rural development and biodiversity conservation
mainly through a Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants; establishing a Regional Cooperation
Program for Karst Ecosystem Conservation (exchange of information, tourism promotion and
partnerships with other Karst regions) - US$35.25 million (GEF financing: US$2.89 million);
iii. Project Management: Support for operating costs of national level and local level Project
Implementation Units (PIU) - US$1.26 million (GEF financing: US$0.78 million)
19. Benefits.  The Project will increase national level capacity to protect globally significant
biodiversity in the Croatian karst ecosystems. This will include a review and revision of Croatia's
legal and regulatory framework as well as sectoral and land-use plans to incorporate biodiversity
conservation; devising a tourism strategy that will strive to achieve the dual goal of financial resources
for conversation activities and minimizing tourism's harm to the ecosystems; the expansion of species
and areas under legal protection; development of a biodiversity information inventory, mapping and
monitoring system; and raising public awareness about the significance of the Karst ecosystems as a
national and global heritage. The project will also improve local capacity for enhanced conservation of
globally significant biodiversity and sustainable resource use in the karst region. Specifically, the
project will develop effective planning and management systems for protected areas; provide
monitoring equipment; and train rangers. The project will also improve social sustainability of
biodiversity conservation by increasing local communities' participation in the decision-making process
on protected areas management; supporting them in developing small businesses, such as tourism
services; and in reviving biodiversity friendly traditional land-use practices.
Incremental Costs
The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario US$30.88 million and the cost of the GEF
Alternative US$39.25 million, US$8.37 million represents the incremental cost of achieving sustainable
global environmental benefits. Of this amount, the Government of Croatia has committed to financing
- 54 -



US$3.30 million and US$5.07 million is requested from GEF.
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sector         Cost Category          Cost          Domestic Benefits  Global Benefits
(US$ Million)
1. Building capacity to  Baseline                0.51
conserve biodiversity
and support
sustainable resource
use
With GEF                  2.34                         Increased national
Alternative                                             capacity to manage
protected areas and
natural resources
sustainable and to
conserve biodiversity o
global importance.
Increment                 1.83
2.                      Baseline                 0.30        Enhanced biodiversit
Establish                                                    protection and
community-based                                              sustainable resource
mechanisms for                                               management in the
biodiversity                                                 karst region.
conservation and
sustainable resource use
in the Karst region
With GEF                  35.25                         Increased local
Altemative                                              capacity for
enhanced
conservation of
globally significant
biodiversity and
sustainable resource
use in the karst
region.
Increment                 4.88
3.Project              Baseline                    0         Not applicable
Management
With GEF                  1.26                          Not applicable
Altemative
Increment                 1.26
Unallocated                                       0.41
Totals                 Baseline                  30.88
With GEF                  39.25
Altemative
Increment                 8.38
- 55 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Years Ending
| Year1 I   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  1 Year 5  | Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investrnent Costs         1.6       2.7       1.9      1.1       0.6
Recurrent Costs           0.1       0.2       0.1       0.1       0.0
Total Project Costs        1.7       2.9       2.0       1.2       0.6       0.0      0.0
,Total Financing            1.7       2.9       2.0       1.2       0.6      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Govemment                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central               0.6       1.1       0.8       0.5       0.3      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiersUSAID       0.1       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
-56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedures.
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. All other procurement
information, including capability of the implementing agency, and the Bank's review process is
presented in Tables B and B 1.
Project Implementation Unit. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning (
MEPP) will have overall responsibility for project implementation. A national level project
implementation unit (PIU) will be established at the MEPP Division of General Environmental Policy,
built on the existence of the current KEC project preparation implementation unit and will be
responsible for all procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project as well
as for overseeing the work of consultants, and organization of seminars and training. It will coordinate
with other donors in the implementation of components which will be supported through parallel
financing and co-financing and will also be responsible for all reporting requirements to the Bank and
the Government.
The project will also finance a local PIU office in Gospic, the county seat of Lika Senj. The local PIU
will be responsible for day-to-day local project implementation and local level coordination, but the
procurement responsibility will lie with the Central PIU. Staffing and technical decisions for the local
PIU will be the responsibility of the MEPP Division of Nature Protection.
The PITJ would be assisted by an inter-agency Project Steering Committee established during project
preparation. The Steering Committee consists of representatives from relevant Ministries and
institutions, including Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning, Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry, State Department for Water, and the directors of the protected areas covered
by the project. The Steering Committee would be responsible for providing project oversight advice,
inter-ministerial coordination, and assistance in resolving issues associated with project
imnplementation. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Physical Planning will be chainnan
for this committee. Local advisory groups from each of the three main project regions (Plitvice,
Paklenica, and the Velebit), selected by, and comprised of, representatives of key stakeholder groups,
will also assist the PIU.
Summary of the Procurement Capacity Assessment. An assessment of the PIU's capacity to
implement the project's procurement plan was carried out in November 2000, and revisited during
appraisal mission on November/December of 2001. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement
cycle management, organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing,
general procurement environment and made a general risk assessment of the PIU. The review rated the
project's risk with regard to procurement as "average." On the other hand, while the PIU has
accumulated experience and is well staffed for this project, still it has no experience in complex
procurement such as ICB, NCB and procurement of large consulting assignments and there is no staff
dedicated to procurement activities. Because of that, thresholds for NCB are kept on the lower side.
The following actions are recommended to mitigate this risk: (i) before board submission, PI1 should
- 57 -



hire a procurement specialist; (ii) PIU should send staff working on procurement activities to an
advanced procurement training course; (iii) the project launch workshop should include a
comprehensive seminar on procurement and financial management, including preparation of bidding
documents for each type of procurement method proposed in the Grant agreement (this seminar needs
not to coincide in time with the project launch); (iv) an updated library including all the standard
bidding documents for relevant procurement methods should be in place in the PIU prior to project
launch; and (v) supervision missions every six months should include accredited procurement
specialist to provide consultation and advice, conduct post review of contracts not subject to Bank
Prior Review, and resolve pending procurement-related issues.
Participation of Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs) in procurement of goods and works.
GOEs willing to participate in procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank in this project
should meet the Bank's eligibility criteria: they should be financially and legally autonomous and
operate under commercial law in Croatia. Their status has to be properly clarified by interested GOEs
before participating in any bid under this project and screened by the PIU..
Participation of Nongovernmental Organizations (NGOs). Nongovernmental Organizations
(NGOs) can compete in the selection process under the provisions of Bank Guidelines, provided that
they have expressed their interest in doing so, and that their qualifications are satisfactory to both the
Government and the Bank. NGOs as eligible voluntary nonprofit organizations may be uniquely
qualified to assist in the preparation, management, and implementation of projects, essentially because
of their involvement and knowledge of local issues, community needs, and/or participatory
approaches. For assignments that emphasize participation and considerable local knowledge, the short
list may comprise entirely NGOs. Selection of Consultants and their contracts will be based on the
standard documents issued by the Bank for the procurement of such services with the minimal
necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The appropriate
standard and regional procurement documents issued by the Bank will be used with the minimum
changes acceptable to, and agreed with, the Bank.
Procurement of Civil Works (US$O.945 million - Bank: US$0.766 million). Civil works are
intended for building trails, rehabilitation of park roads, rehabilitation of buildings, and rehabilitation
of facilities in four national parks. The following procurement methods would be used:
International Competitive Bidding or ICB. ICB procedures will be applied to works contracts
estimated to cost US$0.5 million and above.
National Competitive Bidding or NCB (US$0.945 million - Bank: US$0.756 million). NCB
procedures will be applied for works contracts estimated to cost below US$0.5 million. All efforts
should be made to ensure proper advertisement nationally, so that a wide range of contractors,
including foreign contractors, if interested, can have the opportunity to bid.
Procurement of Goods (US$1.424 million - Bank: US$.992 million). Vehicles, specialized
underwater gear; monitoring equipment; GIS equipment; computers; audio/visual equipment and
- 58 -



office furniture and other equipment will be grouped to the extent practical to encourage competitive
bidding. The following procurement methods will be used:
International Competitive Bidding or ICB (US$0.911 million - Bank: US$0.634 miUlion). Goods
contracts for procurement estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be procured through ICB
procedures.
National Competitive Bidding or NCB (US$0.082 mDllion - Bank: US$0.057 million). NCB
procedures for goods, using the ECA standard document, will be applied for contracts for supply of
furniture and equipment for National Park Paklenica estimated to cost US$0.06 million
International Shopping or IS (US$0.116 miHlion). Contracts for the procurement of GIS equipment,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 each, may be procured under IS procedures by obtaining
competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries. Award through
IAPSO would be acceptable as an alternative to IS, and IAPSO could be invited as a supplier under
the said IS procedures.
National Shopping or NS (US$0.182 milion). Goods contracts for computers, office equipment;
furniture, equipment for national parks, vehicles, and miscellaneous equipment for park functioning
estimated at less than $50,000 each may be procured through using NS procedures.
Procurement of Consultants' Services (US$230 million). Contracts for consultants' services will
be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January of 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January, 1999. The services financed or co-financed under the grant are:
(describe generically). Selection of Consultants and their contracts will be based on the standard
documents issued by the Bank for the procurement of such services with the minimal necessary
modifications as agreed by the Bank.
Selection of firms (US$1.76 million)
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be the preferred method for selection of firms in
contracts with estimated values starting US$200,000 equivalent and above.
Least Cost Selection Method will be applied to procurement of contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 for services such as knowledge dissemination, production of media materials and brochures
and financial audit services.
Consultants Qualifications (CQ). Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be
procured using CQ for the procurement of consulting services in the field of preparation of guidelines
for NGO participation in biodiversity conservation activities.
Selection of Individuals (US$0.54 million). Individual consultants to provide a wide variety of
services will be mostly selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment preferably by
comparing at least 3 CVs from potential eligible candidates.
Small Grant Program.
- 59 -



Small Grants (US$0.500 million financed by the Bank). The Small Grants program (Conservation
and Rural Revitalization Grants Program [CRRG]) will support projects that further the KEC project
development objective such as financing the development of a "people and parks" strategy and
programs for each of the four national parks. Under this objective, the project will also finance
activities for increased public awareness on the local level, including preparation of park promotional
materials for visitors and local population; preparation of educational material for regional schools;
preparation of field guides for Velebit and Plitvice national parks;. The beneficiaries would include
conmmunity based organizations, NGOs, private entrepreneurs, and local residents. Procurement will
be conducted according to the procedures laid out in the Manual for Conducting Very Small-Value
Procurement Under World Bank/IDA Small Grants, Loans and Credits, approved in ECA (single
purchases of goods, works and services estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent may be
conducted on the basis of local commercial practices screened with anticipation by the PIU and
acceptable to the Bank, including sole sourcing when appropriate). Main criteria for project eligibility
will include biodiversity "friendliness", technical feasibility, sustainability cost effectiveness, poverty
reduction impact, environmental impact, and potential to yield short term benefits. A draft operations
manual for the CRRG Grants Program will be completed by project negotiations. Completion of a
final CRRG operations manual will be a condition of disbursement for the grants.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
Goods and Works: The following contracts are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines: (i) all ICB contracts; (ii) the first contract for
works and goods to be procured through NCB; (iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more and works contracts estimated to cost each the equivalent of $200,000
or more; (iv) the first contract procured under IS procedures, the first contract procured under NS
procedures.
Consultants: With respect to consulting services, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of
reference for consultants. Contracts for services estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more
for firms and $50,000 or more for individuals are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. For all consultants, terms of reference will be
prior reviewed. All other contracts are subject to post review (one in 5 contracts). With respect to the
selection of individuals, most consultancy positions will be advertised.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
*                      Proturement MAe    d                      ..
expeNdRtre- Category           [CB            N£B-                      N.BX. -- Toti.Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.94          0.00         0.00       0.94
(0.00)          (0.77)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.77)
2. Goods                           0.91           0.08          0.43         0.00        1.42
(0.63)          (0.06)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.99)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          2.43         0.00       2.43
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.30)       (0.00)      (2.30)
-60 -



4. Small Grants                       0.00            0.00           0.50         0.00         0.50
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.50)        (0.00)      (0.50)
5. Incremental Operating Cost         0.00            0.00           0.35         0.00         0.35
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.14)        (0.00)      (0.14)
6. Unallocated                        0.00            0.00           0.37         0.00         0.37
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.37)        (0.00)      (0.37)
Total                              0.91             1.02          4.08          0.00        6.01
(0.63)           (0.83)        (3.61)        (0.00)      (5.07)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civi] works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
3/ A total of US$0.37 million has been set aside in unallocated funds for contingencies.
4/ Please note that the total costs does not include contingencies for Tables A and Al.
-61 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
- v -      Seleqtton .tto _         --s
Consultant Services-.
Expenditure Calpq   QCBS     4BS   .P9      LCS     -Q-      Other  l.S.F. TOtl Coilt
A. Firms              1.51    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.04    0.00    0.00     1.76
(1.51)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.21)  (0.04)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.76)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00     0.54
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.54)  (0.00)   (0.54)
Total  1.51    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.04    0.54    0.00     2.30
(1.51)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.21)  (0.04)  (0.54)  (0.00)   (2.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
-62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            PriorPReview
.cpenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (Ut$ millions)
1. Works                     >500,000                  ICB                    0.77
<500,000                 NCB
2. Goods                     >100,000                  ICB                    0.76
<100,000           NCB (furniture, park
equipment)
<100,000                  Is
< 50,000                  NS
3. Services                                         QCBS, LCS                 2.10
CQ, IND
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  3.63
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits) during the first year of implementation; then, once a year.
Ex-Post review procurement will be part of the supervision missions and will be carried out by a PAS.
It is expected that, by the time of effectiveness, a year of procurement documentation will be ready. The
project launch workshop is estimated to be taking place in 2002.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 63 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in USSmillion         Financig Pperuent
Works                                       0.77                        85%
Goods                                      0.99           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Services                                   2.30                         100%
Small Grants                               0.50                         100%
Incremental Operating Cost                 0.14           80% until October 2004; 50% thereafter
Unallocated                                0.37
Total Project Costs                        5.07
Total                                       5.07
Disbursements
Disbursements from the Grant would be made by the Bank initially on receipt of full documentation for all
project expenditures except those submitted as SOE. Replenishment applications should be submitted on a
monthly basis and must be fully documented and supported by bank statements and reconciliation
statements. This documentation will be made available for the required audit as well as to Bank
supervision missions and will be retained by the PIU for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the
audit report for the year in which disbursement was made. The proceeds of the World Bank Grant will be
allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the MEPP will
establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The
option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
Use of statement of expenditures:
Statement of Expenditure (SOE) would be used for:
(a) goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract
(b) works less than US$200,000
(c) consultant contracts with firms less than US$100,000
(d) individual consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000
(e) incremnental recurrent costs
(f) sub-grants referred to in Table C, category "sub-grants"
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the MEPP would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the bank, a special accounts in Euros in a commercial bank for the GEF grant.
The selection process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank will follow the Bank's
- 64 -



Disbursement Handbook procedures. The bank would, upon request, make a deposit of US$350,000 for
the GEF special account. Applications for the replenishment of the account will be submitted monthly or
when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, which ever occurs earlier. The necessary
documentation, the special account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement will support
the replenishment application
Please see Annex 12 for Financial Management Assessment Report
- 65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                    21
First Bank mission (identification)              03/18/2000                   03/18/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      01/04/2002                   11/26/2001
Negotiations                                     03/05/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                                 01/04/2002
Prepared by:
Re: project schedule, note the project was "on hold" (for 14 months) due to a shortfall in GEF funds from
the completion of the pre-appraisal mission, October, 2000, until the GEF Council Meeting 12/6/01, when
the project was approved for the work plan, and appraisal was conducted.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Rita Klees                         Task Manager, Senior Environmental Specialist
John Fraser Stewart                Senior Biodiversity Specialist
Tijen Arin                         Consultant - Natural Resource Economist
Valencia Copeland                  Program Assistant/Project Cost
Karin Shepardson                   Senior Environmental Economist - GEF Regional Coordinator
Gonzalo Castro                     Senior Biodiversity Specialist - ENV
Jan Post                           Principal Biodiversity Specialist
Anthony Whitten                    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
Jane Holt                          Sector Leader - Environment
Marjorie Ann Bromhead              Sector Leader - Natural Resources
Jose Martinez                      Procurement Specialist
Gurdev Singh                       Consultant - Procurement Specialist
Hiran Herat                        Financial Management
Janis Bernstein                    Senior Environmental Specialist - Social Team
Vladimir Skendrovic                Senior Operations Officer
Anamarija Frankic                  Consultant - Ecologist
Martin Schneider-Jacoby            Consultant - Biologist
Voltaire Andres                    Consultant - Leadership Development Center
Riunma Dankova                     Consultant - Economist
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Social and Rural Development Assessment
Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey
Legal, Regulatory and Institutional Review
Land and Nature Resource Management Plan Review
Public Awareness and Environmental Needs Assessment
Environmental Management Plan
Letter from MEPP regarding Plitvice Lakes National Park Finances
*Including electronic files
-67-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
01-Mar-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount In US$ Millions                       disbursements
Project ID   FY  Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA               GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
P067223      2002 SAL                                       202.00     0.00               0.00     0.00    100.00   -34.00     0.00
P065466      2001 COURT & BANKRUPTCY ADM (UL)                 5.00     0.00               0.00     0.00      5.00     0.00     0.00
P070088      2001 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR              13.93     0.00               0.00     0.00     12.60     7.61     0.00
P051273      2000 HEALTH SYSTEM                              29.00     0.00               0.00     0.00     24.36    -4.62     0.00
P039161      1999 RAILWAY MOD. & REST.                      101.00     0.00               0.00     0.00     56.06    61.78     0.00
P057767      1999 TA INST REG REF PSD                         7.30     0.00               0.00     0.00     5.42      2.79     0.00
P043444      1998 MUN ENV INFRA                              36.30     0.00               0.00     0.00     21.43    11.02     0.00
P040139      1998 INVESTMENT RECOVERY                        30.00     0.00               0.00     7.70     1.43     10.11     0.00
P048983      1998 EAST SLAVONIA REC                          40.60     0.00               0.80     0.00     24.76    26.40     0.00
P008334      1997 COASTAL FOREST RECON - HR                  42.00     0.00               0.00     0.00     6.54      6.54     0.00
P008335      1996 FARMER SUPPORT SERV                        17.00     0.00               0.00     2.00      2.35     4.35     0.02
Total:    524.13      0.00             0.80      9.70     259.95    91.97     0.02
CROATIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval            Company                             Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
1998                   Alpe Jadran                         2.23      0.00      0.00     0.00      2.23      0.00      0.00      0.00
1973/81/98             Belisce                             9.65      6.01      0.00     6.00      9.65      6.01      0.00      6.00
1999                   Croatia Capital                     0.00      5.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      2.69      0.00      0.00
1999                   E&S Bank                           12.81      0.00      0.00      0.00    12.81      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001                   Pliva                              25.00      0.00     10.00     12.50    20.00      0.00      10.00    10.00
T.S. Banka D.D.                      0.00     1.24      0.00      0.00      0.00      1.24     0.00      0.00
1996/99                Viktor Lenac                        6.00      1.90      4.20     9.00      6.00      1.90      3.70      9.00
2000
Total Portfolio:             55.69     14.15     14.20     27.50     50.69     11.84     13.70    25.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                                 Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic
2001                  Local Leasing CR                        5.00        0.00        1.20       0.00
2000                  RZB Pension                             0.00        0.00        3.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:               5.00        0.00       4.20        0.00
-68 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Europe &    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central   middle-
Croatia      Asia  Income      Development dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      4.4      475       647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 4,840     2,010     4.620
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                    21.2       956     2.986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                       -0.9      0.1       1.3      N                             G
Labor force (%)                                      -3.1      0.6       2.0     GNPI                          pGross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of pooDulation below national poverty line)  8
Urban population (% of total population)              58        67       76
Life expectancy at birth (Veers)                      73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               8        21       28
Child malnutrition {% of children under 5)             .,       ..        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  96        90       87
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                             3       10              Croati
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-ape population)  99       100      107             Croatia
Male                                                         101      106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                        99      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economnic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                            ..      ..      20.3      22.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                 23.4      22.0
Exvorts of uoods and services/GDP                             40.6      45.0                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                    15:1      16.4
Gross national savings/GDP                                    16.5      18.7
Current account balance/GDP                           ..      -6.8      -1.8     Domestic                   Investment
Interest Payments/GDP                                          2.1       2.1       sU VI
Total debt/GDP                                                46.0      46.6     savngs
Total debt service/exports                                    17.2      20.9
Present value of debVGDP                                      46.1
Present value of debtUexports                                101.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  199040     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         0.6     -0.4       3.7       4.4              Croatia
GOP per capita                              1.2      0.5       4.4       3.2              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services               5.5      0.7       8.7       3.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment end GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                         10.3       9.7       9.5
Industry                                            33.8      33.1      32.8     20
Manufaclurina                                      27.7      22.4     23.2
Services                                             6.9      57.2      57 7     o   _   =   _       o   =    0    -
Private consumption                                           57.1      57.2     20 I
General government consumption                                27.8      26.5              -GDI           C  GDP
Imports of goods and services                                 48.9      50.6
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                         -2.0      -2.0       1.3    30
Industry                                            -2.5       0.1       1.5    20                A
Manufacturlng                                      -3.3       4.1      4.1    10
Services                                             2.2      -0.3       5.0    10
Private consumption                                  2.6      -2.7       4.1     o           ss  9    97
General government consumption                       1.1       0.8      -0.7   .10
Gross domestic investment                            8.4      -2.6      -0.1                 Exports     IlImports
Imports of goods and services                        4.8      -2.7       4.2
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond wiil
be incomplete.
- 69 -



Croatia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflatton (%)
Domstfic prkes
(% change)                                                                     150-
Consumer prices                                                4.2      6.2    100
lmplicft GDP deflator                                          4.1      6.5
Govsermmnt finance                                                              50
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                                               47.7     45.2            9f    96    97    98   99
Current budget balance                                         1.1     -1.4           -     GOP deflator  e   PI
Overall surplus/deflict                                       -2.2     -5.2
TRADE
(USS rniFonsJ                              1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                          4,395    4,567     10.000
Capital goods                                                243      251
Chemicals                                                    338      486     7.soo
Manufactures                                               2.800    2,751
Total Imports (cmf)                                          7,693    7,805     5,00
Food                                                         560      538     2.    __                  _
Fuel and energy                                              804     1,094
Capital goods                                              2,732    2,606
Export price index (1995=100)                                                         94  ss   9s   97 9.     99  oo
Import price index (1995=100)                                                             * Exports     Mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$  1980  1990   1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mtNbns)
Exports of goods and services                      6,819     8,118    8,651    10
Imports of goods and services                      7,115     9,791    9,598
Resource balance                                    -296    -1,673    -946       s
Net income                                          -192     -350      -310      0_
Net current transfers                              1,541      632       858      s94
Curent account balance                             1,053    -1,391     -399     1 -
Financing Items (net)                             -1,053     1,769      981     10
Changes Innet reserves                                0       -379     -582    -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS milions)         ..      .      3,025    3,525
Conversion rate (DEC. tocalIUS$)              ..      ..       7.0      7.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ miions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                         9,335   10,448
IBRD                                                        387      395                 G     k95  C 3959
IDAO                                                          0                          G: 795     C: 159
IDA                                    0        0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -  D. 488
Total debt service                                           1.596    2,085
IBRD                                                         40       411,116
IDA                                                           0         0
Composftion of net resource flows                     ..                                        = -   a     -
Official grants\
Ofllcal creditors                                            83       154                    -
Private creditors                                           979     1.004                              /'i
Foreign direct investment                                  1,445     898
Portfolio equity                                            574       733              F: 7.495
World Bank program
Comnmitments                                                 108       29     A-IBRD                     E 2-EIaeral
Disbursements                                                85        55     B - IDA  D - Oier murDlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                         18        22     C - IMF                   G - Short-tefm
Netflows                                                     67        34
Interest payments                                            22        19
Net transfers                                                46        14
Development Economics                                                                                           9121101
- 70 -



Additional
Annex 11
CROATIA KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND PARTICIPATORY APPROACH
As part of the preparation of the Croatia Karst Ecosystem Conservation (KEC) Project, the World
Bank commissioned Blackstone Corporation Resource Management & Tourism Consultants, a Canadian
consultant firm, to carry out a social assessment (SA). The results of the SA and consultations with a wide
range of stakeholders were incorporated into the project to improve the effectiveness of the project design.
The following sunmmarizes the SA objectives and methodology, socioeconomic conditions, especially
principal economic activities as well as demographic and economic changes in the project areas since 1991,
social development issues, framework for public participation, and social development indicators for
project monitoring and evaluation during implementation.
Social Assessment Objectives and Methodology
The main objectives of an SA are to identify and address key social issues associated with a proposed
investment; identify main stakeholders, their interests capacities, conflicts, and likely effects on the
protected areas and levels of support/participation in project implementation; evaluate potential social
impacts on individuals and social groups; and identify desirable social development outcomes and the social
and institutional arrangements to achieve them. The specific SA objectives for the KEC project are to:
*      Characterize the local population in the proposed project area in terms of who is currently living in
the study area, their economic activities and use of natural resources, and the changes that have occurred
since 1991.
*      Characterize the extent to which the refugees, most of whom fled in 1995, are returning to the
study area and the social impacts of this development.
*      Identify specific measures that can be incorporated into the project to contribute to poverty
alleviation, as well as strengthening social capital and ensuring equity.
*      Identify socio-economic activities, issues and needs, and their relationships to sustainable
development and conservation goals (e.g., activities that demonstrate linkages between conservation and
development, such as rural tourism, traditional agriculture, handicrafts, etc., as well as those that may pose
a threat to biodiversity conservation).
*      Identify economic development/income-generating activities for the study area communities that
can contribute positively to conservation goals, and assessment of possible financial mechanisms, and other
vehicles, to support such development.
*      Identify the current involvement of the population in tourism  and opportunities for
community-based initiatives in the tourism sector.
*      Assess current level of public awareness of need for biodiversity conservation, current level of
- 71 -



participation of communities in decision-making related to biodiversity conservation, existing structures for
participation., and appropriate mechanisms for increasing community participation.
*      Identify social development outcomes and indicators as well as mechanisms for monitoring and
evaluating them during project implementation.
The SA methodology involved qualitative techniques, particularly formal and semi-formal in-depth
interviews with key stakeholders supplemented by a series of focus groups to bring people together to
discuss a specific set of questions about socio-economic conditions and social issues relating to the project.
The SA team interviewed over 225 individuals, representing the full range of stakeholders, including Croat
and Serb villagers; town residents; and representatives of community-based organizations (CBOs),
non-govermnental organizations (NGOs), international relief agencies, local businesses, and all levels of
government. The SA study area consisted of the communities in and around the four protected areas that
are the focus of the KEC.
Social and Economic Conditions
Demographic Changes Since 1991. The KEC study area has experienced profound demographic changes
over the past several decades. In Lika-Senj County, which comprises more than 80% of the KEC study
area, there has been an extreme and steady depopulation for many decades, declining by 65% between 1900
and 1991. In 1991, the last year that census results are available (2001 census data not yet available), only
64,000 people were recorded as living in the inland. The county's inland population has decreased a
further 32% over the past decade, to approximately 43,450 people. This depopulation is the result of the
war (including the fleeing of the Serbs), and the disastrous privatization process, which led to the closure of
factories, massive unemployment, and out-migration of people in search ofjobs.
At the time of the 1991 census, the study area's population consisted largely of the elderly, with people
over 60 years of age comprising 23% of the population. Since 1991, many more youth have left, causing
the proportion of elderly to increase significantly, particularly in the rural areas. Many young people have
moved to cities such as Zagreb and Rijeka to obtain advanced degrees, often because they are unable to
find employment Rural depopulation has implications for the biodiversity aims of the KEC, because much
of the farmland meadows that were important contributors to the karst system's biodiversity have been
abandoned and overtaken by the forests.
The north part of the study area around Risnjak National Park, generally coinciding with the District of
Gorski-Kotar, has also experienced rural depopulation in the order of 20% since 1991, largely as a result of
the loss of employment and an exodus of people in search of jobs. Some of the mayors in the towns near
the park note that the loss of youth has reached the point where schools are being closed, and there is a fear
that some settlements will no longer be able to retain their status as municipalities.
The southem part of the study area, around Paklenica National Park, has reportedly succeeded in holding
its 1,200-1,500 population over the past 10 years due to the availability of employment in tourism along
the coast. Today, there are only about 120, mostly elderly people, living in rural areas around the national
park.
Little is known about land-ownership in this area. Forests comprise much of the area and they are mainly
state-owned. There is an on-going process of decentralization and divesting of parcels (for example,
church land is being returned). Reportedly there are no conflicts among users.
-72 -



The ratio of men to women was relatively stable throughout the region according to the 1991 census. The
SA investigations, however, identified a very interesting and important factor related to gender balance in
post-war times. It was noted by several of the younger men that a major impediment to them staying in the
study area is the fact that there are so few young women.
Economic Activities and Resource Use in the Study Area. With Croatia's independence in 1990 came
the decision to make the transition to a market economy. The transition and in particular, privatization,
proved to be one of the two forces behind the economic decline that the KEC study area has experienced
since 1991 (the other being the war). Privatization took the form of the transfer of economic ownership and
control of productive enterprises from government to new owners. The bankrupting of many enterprises
through the 1990s in the country meant that factories closed, workers lost their jobs, and many of the banks
that held the debt of these failed operations went bankrupt.
Thus, in Lika-Senj, the economic picture has changed dramatically during the past decade. Before 1991,
stakeholders noted that almost everyone had a paying job, in forestry, tourism, or government. To
supplement their income in one of the state-organized industries, many practiced traditional agriculture on
their family farms. The thriving Plitvice Lakes National Park that was attracting 750,000 visitors in the
late 1 980s was an all-important source of direct employment. It also provided largely guaranteed markets
for all the agricultural products people could produce.
Unfortunately, the past ten years have seen the major decline of all of Lika-Senj's productive sectors, the
loss of jobs, and the out-migration of young people. Plitvice's success as a tourism destination in the
1980s had been heavily linked with the coastal tourism industry that had been the source of 60% of the
Park's visitation. Because of the devastating effect that the war has had on Croatia's tourism industry, and
because of the bankrupting of many hotels through privatization, the coastal tourism industry has been
severely affected, as has Plitvice's. Access to credit, high taxation, and lack of a center to provide business
start-up are major impediments to the development of a private tourism industry.
Today, the future of Plitvice, once the most important economic growth engine for Lika-Senj, is uncertain
at best. One of the central findings explained more fully in the SA is that the revival of Croatia's coastal
tourism industry is closely linked with, and likely a pre-requisite for, the future of a viable tourism industry
within the KEC study area. A second conclusion is that, while there are other secondary natural and
cultural tourism attractions in the central part of the KEC study area, the land mines present the most
severe detriment to development of altemative/'eco" tourism, given the "wandering nature" of this type of
tourist.
Forestry jobs in Lika-Senj have declined by at least 60% from some 1,700 to 2,000 jobs in 1991 to between
570 and 700 today as a result of the bankrupting of several sawmills, and because landmines have taken
some forests out of production. As far as agriculture is concerned, the significant decline of tourism at
Plitvice has undermined demand for produce. Never a mainstay but long a strong supplementary activity,
it continues its decline. The predominant elderly farm dwellers are unable to maintain the pastoral and crop
lands, while the younger people are very often unable to farm effectively due to a lack of resources and a
lack of knowledge about how to market their products.
In the northern part of the study area around Risnjak National Park, forestry was and remains the
overwhelmingly dominant industry, accounting for approximately 1,100 jobs. This represents about the
same employment level as in 1991, accounting for an estimated 70%-80% of total employment in the
district. Unfortunately, a decline in employment by the sector is anticipated, as a result of reorganization
and modernization. The situation was quite a bit different before the war and independence, as
- 73 -



municipalities used to own the forests within their boundaries and were able to generate important revenues
from this source.
In terms of tourism, before the war many of the communities in the Risnjak National Park study area
enjoyed visitation by mostly Western European upscale tourists who were staying in nearby Istria and
Kvarner Bay (Opatija, Crikvenica) and who were attracted by the natural and cultural features. Such
visitation included day and overnight stays and provided revenues sufficient to diversify the study area's
economy beyond forestry. It is expected that effective recovery of the tourism industry will occur in the
next three to five years.
In the southernmost part of the study area, around Pakienica National Park, tourism is the mainstay of the
economy, centered along the coast around Starigrad. Forestry was not identified as an industry of any
importance in this southern region. While agriculture was reportedly important to the area in past decades,
there are only a few remaining rural villages. The Paklenica area is reportedly recovering well from the
effects on tourism brought on by the war, at least in terms of total numbers of visitors, reaching 120,000
visitors annually, or 60% of pre-war levels. However, as was true in all other parts of the study area, the
Eastern European adventure travelers (e.g., climbers, backpackers) who spend relatively little.
Social Development Issues
The following are the main social development issues associated with the proposed project:
Weak civil society. The environmental NGO movement in Croatia is relatively weak, and in its early
stages of development While there are dozens of entities forwarding themselves as environmental
"NGOs", they are small and fragmented, with limited resources and capacity. Many in the environmental
NGO community have recognized that there is a need to coordinate activities and establish some type of
umbrella organization to represent their interests more effectively. Given the sheer number of NGOs, it
was not possible for the project team to communicate individually with all of the groups.
Inadequate capacityfor community development. Participation of stakeholders in KEC activities can be
difficult. Stakeholders expressed a reticence to meet in groups and do things cooperatively. SA findings
are that KEC project initiatives would likely have a higher chance of success if they build on areas of
"social energy", that is to say, on areas where there are indications of energy/activity, entrepreneurship, and
enthusiasm. The SA identified a number of communities where people are attempting to work together to
develop both community and private sector activities.
Lack of trust in local institutions. Plans, policies and regulations are often poorly implemented and
enforced. It was repeatedly noted by stakeholders that although some very good plans exist for county
development, park management, etc., they tend to be "paper plans" that are rarely implemented, and laws
and regulations are not enforced. This is an important factor for consideration during the KEC project
preparation process, as any planning/regulatory initiatives that are proposed under the KEC should be
accompanied by a high degree of confidence that they will be implemented.
Lack of adequate community participation in park management decision making. The parks generally
tend to function as fairly solitary entities. Local people are generally neither consulted about, nor involved
in, park activities, even when they may be very directly affected. Many people are living within park
boundaries, especially at Plitvice, where they report a real need for improved communications between
management and people to identify suitable activities, provide for garbage collection, etc. Several other
local stakeholders reported that they were somewhat confused about the parks, were not consulted about
-74-



their establishment, did not know where the boundaries were, and did not understand the reasons for their
establishment. There is a legacy of resentment that has grown up around some of the parks, which, as
many stakeholders noted, are viewed as having limited activities of those who had previously used the parks
for economic purposes. Moreover, it was observed that the relationship between people and parks is
extremely weak. One of the key challenges to the KEC Project will be to narrow this gap, and to bring
those who are most affected by the Parks' evolution into the decision-making process.
Threats to Cultural heritage. Concern was expressed by several stakeholders about the loss of cultural
heritage. As one stakeholder wamed, "traditional knowledge will be gone in 10 years." While there is a
very rich cultural heritage in Croatia, virtually all of its manifestations (e.g., heritage buildings; traditional
foods and beverages; wood arts and crafts; wool, textiles and clothing production; music and dance; etc.)
are endangered in the study area. For examnple, many buildings, old corn mills, fortifications, and churches
have been destroyed during the various aggressions. Despite many official designations and protection
under the law, stakeholders observed that little is done to preserve these resources in the face of the many
other pressing issues confronting the country.  Local traditional cultural pursuits and traditional
environmental knowledge are also dwindling because the formerly very strong extended family structures
break down, and the elderly no longer pass along their knowledge to the youth.
Vulnerabk Populations. One of the most vulnerable segments of society in the KEC Project area are
those living in the rural villages undertaking subsistence agriculture. Most of these people are elderly and
living off pensions that often amount to only 150 or 200 Kunas/month (US$25). It was observed that often
these villagers are isolated and do not necessarily have strong extended family structures to help and
support them. Some of these villagers indicated that the young people would come back to the land if they
could make a living. In this regard, the KEC Project may be able to play a positive role by providing
assistance to this group. Perhaps the most vulnerable and poverty-stricken elements of society observed are
the Serbs and Croats who have returned to the rural villages in the Plitvice area in the aftermath of war.
Both groups tend to be dominated by the elderly and live in isolated settlements with limited access to
resources. Most are trying to reestablish agriculture and crafts production.
Return of the Serbian Population. In 1991, prior to the war, 43% of Lika-Senj's population, or 30,741
people, were Serb, 90% of who fled the country in 1995. By May 2000, SA sources estimate that some
20% (approximately 5,500 people) have returned. Those who have returned are overwhelning the elderly,
who have come back to capitalize on their pensions as they have no other sources of income available to
them. The SA estimates that, of the 5,500 Serbs who have returned, only 678 (some 12%) are under 45
years of age, underscoring the fact that the young are not retuming.
Gender Issues. Little information and few issues related to the status of women in Croatia were identified.
There are no agencies of government that deal specifically with women's affairs, and no literature related to
gender-specific information was reported. In government, academia and business, observations and
stakeholder interviews indicated that women hold positions, at most levels (outside higher levels of
government, management and the military), in a proportion relatively equal to men. Rural women have
difficult lives, being responsible for work on the farm as well as all household duties. With respect to the
issue of poverty, however, it was reported that poor households headed by women (that is, widows) are not
receiving war pensions, divorced women and single mothers also are considered vulnerable, but that there
are also many households headed by divorced men who are living in very poor conditions. The lack of a
social network outside the family makes life difficult for many women today, as in many cases almost all
family members have moved away, and there are few children to care for.
Stakeholder Analysis and Participation Framework
- 75 -



A broad range of groups of people have a stake in the way Karst ecosystem resources are managed. Key
stakeholders include: (a) Govemment institutions at the national, regional and local levels (including
MEPP, MOAF, HS, Ministry of Tourism); (b) national and nature parks in the project area; (c) local
residents and resource users (farmers, forest users, HS employees, herders, service providers to national
parks and park visitors); (d) national and local level NGOs; (e) the academic community and research
institutes; and (e) tourists. Each of these stakeholder groups has specific interests and needs related to
resource use and control and will, therefore, will be affected by the project. The stakeholders consulted
during the SA process were evaluated and grouped into three categories: those most able to influence the
KEC project; those who are likely to be most affected by the KEC project (both positively and negatively,
including the most vulnerable); and those who have potential to contribute knowledge or other support to
the KEC project. Table 1 summarizes groups identified as being a part of each of these categories.
Table 1: Summary of Stakeholder Analysis: Interests, Impacts and Influence
Stakeholder Groups    Interests at Stake in    Potential Influence of   Potential Impact of the
Relation to        Stakeholder Group on the          Project
V______ _  The Project             Project          On the Stakeholder Group
Stakeholders Most Able to Influence the Project
Ministry of         Oversees the KEC project  Is an implementing agency  Will benefit from
Environmental       design and implementation.  of the KEC Project and has  institutional strengthening
Protection And      Has responsibility for Parks. a fundamental influence on  in parks management,
Physical Planning                             selection of project     sustainable development and
components,              natural resource
implementation and       management.
monitoring of results.
Ministry of         Oversees/manages state    Revisions to forestry law  KEC will promote
Agriculture and    forests                    could affect the range of  inter-sectoral cooperation
Forestry/Hrvatske                             permitted uses in the forests  and planning
Sume                                          of the KEC Project area;  *Rural Revitalization grants
Could provide assistance  are expected to include
and input to various     demonstration of
forestry/agriculture related  biodiversity friendly forestry
project components.      practices
Improved protected area
management should result in
improved management of
forests in their area.
Ministry of Tourism  MoT has interest in seeing  Ministry could shape the  KEC Project will finance
tourism revive in the KEC  Terms of Reference of other studies and actions in
Project area.             upcoming national tourism  support of ecotourism
studies to include analyses  development
that would be helpful to the KEC project will prepare
KEC Project.             regional tourism strategy
KEC project will support,
through rural revitalization
grants program, tourism
_  ______________________   related development
County & Municipal * Interest in creating   ' Can facilitate the      ' Is likely to increase the
Governments         employment in project areas  decentralization process,  connection and level of
- 76 -



and limiting reductions in  and encourage participation  cooperation between
permitted natural resource  of its local/county   government and
uses that the KEC project  stakeholders;         residents/participants
might impose.            Can participate directly in  through participatory
specific aspects of the KEC  development of protected
Project.                 area management plans,
Can provide information  people and parks liaison
and insights that will ensure communities and
a strong understanding of  administration of small
KEC participants of local  grants program
realities.              * Could affect popularity and
support of government, if
project goal of enhancing
economic development is
achieved.
Parks Management   Parks strengthening with  Will be the key local   KEC Project will strengthen
respect to resource      contacts and facilitators of  legal basis for biodiversity
management and           KEC Project components.  conservation in and around
biodiversity protection are  * Will be a key source of  national parks.
central to the Karst     information regarding    Project will help improve
ecosystem conservation and  biodiversity and resource  financial improve financial
therefore of strong interest  use in the parks.   sustainability of biodiversity
to parks managers.                                conservation efforts.
Project will finance
management plan
development ], equipment,
training, field trips [
Project will enhance local
community support to
national parks
Project will strengthen
knowledge about
I biodiversity in parks.
Stakeholders Most Affected by the Project - The "Key Stakeholders"
The rural poor     Have a big stake to the   Could be participants in  * Could be beneficiaries of any
extent to which the KEC  KEC Project (e.g. crafts,  KEC project economic
project focuses on economic  agriculture, tourism);  development initiatives.
development, and a lesser  * If participants in KEC  * Could alienate and adversely
interest if protection is the  agricultural initiatives,  affect the rural poor to the
focus;                   could help to protect    extent that the KEC effects a
Do not appear, in general, to biodiversity by preserving  reduction in permitted
be practicing            the meadows.             resource uses, or does not
environmentally                                   benefit them;
unsustainable resource uses;                     * Could have a neutral/no
effect to the extent that the
KEC does not focus on this
group as a high priority
target for participation, or to
the extent that the KEC
focuses on scientific
research.
Serbs and Croats  * Same as above.         * Same as above.         * Same as above;
retuming to villages                                                 Could induce more Serbs to
-77 -



return, particularly to the
Plitvice area.
Young people       Same as above.            Same as above.          Could help to enable young
Can provide energy and   people to stay in, or be
enthusiasm through their  drawn back to the project
participation.           area.
Local entrepreneurs  Have interest in economic  * Could participate in ways  * Could be beneficiaries of
development in the Project  that help to generate  support programs for
area that will enhance their  employment growth and  environmentally businesses.
business.                help to keep youth in the
Producers of crafts/products  project area, and preserve
that are of cultural value  culturally important
wish to revive their business. practices;
People living within  Villagers use natural  * Same as above;        Could be beneficiaries of any
and adjacent to parks resources for their survival  Can improve sustainable use KEC project economic
(including local   (e.g. farming). [Note:   of resources if the KEC  development initiatives
farmers)           Resource use was not     Project successfully     Project will encourage their
observed to be unsustainable  encourages their    participation by raising
on an overall basis.]    participation and        awareness and supporting
Villagers would like to be  implements measures that  economic activities that are
able to sell produce and  help improve their material  based on sustainable
crafts to the parks again  well being.            resource use
Villagers complain often,                         Villager will be encouraged
that they have little or no                      to participate in the
input to decisions that affect                    development of park
their lives.                                      management plans and in
parks and people programs.
Tourism industry   The tourism industry    *The tourism industry (crafts The KEC Project will
throughout the KEC study  producers, pension/other  benefit the tourism industry
area is suffering from   accommodations operators,  by financing the promotion
reduced post-war visitation,  tour guides, etc.) can  of the parks system. and
a low-end, low-spending  participate in Karst     supporting the analysis,
tourist, high seasonality, a  ecosystem conservation by  production and marketing of
lack of funds for marketing,  generating employment and  local tourism services .
and a lack of experience  increasing the attractiveness
with ecotourism.         of parks as tourism
destinations.
Community-based    Currently, these groups base  CBOs can be participants in The KEC project will
organizations (crafts, their activities on the use of  the KEC project and have  support measures to protect
fishing, hunting,  natural and cultural     expressed interest in    hunting and fishing
mountaineering)    resources.               receiving support (for crafts resources, thereby benefiting
* Currently, there is reportedly production and sales and  local CBOs, whose activities
unsustainable hunting    tour guiding), and for   depend on the quality of the
within and around some of  support to restore and  environment;
the parks undertaken by  manage the fishing and   Mountaineers could benefit
poachers.                hunting resources.       if the KEC project supports
signage/other amenities.
The Bosnian Croats  'Appear to be limited;  Appear to be limited if not  Appears to be limited but
non-existent.            project design should be
undertaken recognizing their
vulnerable situation.
Stakeholders Who Have Potential to Contribute to the Project
NGOs              * There are dozens of     Some NGOs appear to have  The KEC project could
- 78 -



environmental NGOs,      an understanding of, and  strengthen and coalesce the
including several        relevant experience at the  energies of an
specifically active in the  local/parks level in the  environmental NGO
KEC study area.          project area. They can   community that is in its
contribute to the KEC    early stages of development;
project, possibly facilitating * NGOs could, as a result of
some of the components,  participation in the KEC,
such as organic agriculture. increase their overall
Some NGOs may be able to influence and effectiveness
facilitate the linkage   at county/national levels, as
between parks and the local far as environmental
people.                  awareness and protection,
and sustainable development
are concerned.
Chamber of Economy * The Chamber has an interest * The Chamber could act as a *Project activities to revive
in economic development,  tourism/other sector    the local rural economy will
including among others,  resource, and as a partner  help the Chamber reach its
tourism.                 with the KEC implementers, objective of economic
in terms, among others, of  development.
developing
recommendations for
changes in policies and
regulations affecting the
success of the KEC,
particularly in areas
involving economic
development.
Croatian Livestock  Is actively working in parts * Could cooperate with the  The project includes a breed
Selection Center   of the project area to   KEC to facilitate a      protection activity which
promote a return on the part strengthening of local  will work with the Livestock
of farmers to the breeding of agriculture and protection of Selection Center and
indigenous livestock, which  biodiversity, through  potentially, enable it to
are deemed to be important  keeping farmers on the  generate financial support
to biodiversity.         land;                    from nationaVinternational
sources to continue
expanding its work.
Tourism Institute  Is actively involved in  Could contribute to the  * Will cooperate to collect
devising policy to promote  tourism potential and  information on and shape
Croatia as an ecotourism  carrying capacity      the policy for ecotourism
destination in addition to  assessment under the  development in the project
being a sun&sand country.  project.               areas.
Interested in enhancing  * Could help monitor
information on the tourism  ecotourism growth in
and recreation value of the  project areas and its effect
Karst region.            on the eco-system.
Institute of Social  The Institute has experience * Could provide assistance to  Could strengthen the
Sciences           in alternative tourism   facilitate consultation with  Institute's image and
development in other parts  and participation of local  involvement.
of Croatia and wishes to  people, in the KEC Project
contribute to it in the Karst  area, particularly where
region.                  KEC can benefit local
Senior members of the    people's lives.
Institute appear to have the
- 79 -



trust and understanding of
the local people in the
Project area.
World Lutheran      These groups are providing * Could provide the KEC with * KEC could provide
Federation, UNDP &  relief to the most vulnerable  a profound and highly  value-added to the efforts of
Red Cross          in the KEC Project area.  current understanding of  these groups.
social changes and poverty
in the KEC Project area and
areas of greatest need;
Could provide the KEC
Project with advice, and
with information that will
help to avoid overlap of
effort.
Serb Democratic    The SDF is interested in  Organic farming and      KEC could help to advance
Forum              promoting the return of the  alternative tourism are areas the interests of the SDF by
Serbs and particularly the  of interest to the SDF and  providing sustainable
young, which is, in part,  which would possibly lead  economic development
dependent on the creation of to their participation and  opportunities.
job opportunities.        cooperation with KEC
components dealing with
sustainable economic
development.
SDF could criticize and
resist the KEC if it does not
give equal opportunity for
participation to both Croats
and Serbs.
International       Croatia is in the process of  These agencies could top up The KEC could provide a
Agencies            negotiating entry into the  investments undertaken by  replicable/successful
EU, which makes it eligible  the KEC Project, thereby  example of sustainable
for assistance and        giving it a high        development and
cooperation with many of  value-added.            biodiversity protection.
these agencies.
Media              * Media is interested in  Journalists and others in the KEC Project will cooperate
obtaining and spreading to  media may be able to act as  with the media in increasing
the population information  disseminators of       public awareness on the
on environmental protection. information to the    importance of biodiversity
stakeholders.            and progress made by the
I_Project in its conservation.
Stakeholder Participation Plan in Project Implementation
The findings of the SA indicate that the main focus of the KEC project should be aimed at ensuring that
decision-making be decentralized to the local level to the extent possible. This suggestion responds to the
frequently voiced complaints by stakeholders about the traditional top-down decision-mraking process that
has effectively ignored local realities. It also inherently recognizes that realization of the goals of the KEC
will necessarily involve, and require, the cooperation and participation of those living on and around the
karst region. Table 2 summarizes stakeholder participation expected during project implementation. Table
3 presents the project sub-components in which each of the major stakeholder group will participate and
their more of participation.
- 80 -



Table 2: Stakeholder Participation During Project Implementation
Stakeholder                        Project Component                       Mode of
Participation
COL = Collaboration
CON = Consultation
INF = Information
_________________________            Sharing
Ministry of Agriculture  I. Review of and amendments to the biodiversity-related  1. COL
Forestry Hrvatske Sume      regulation, intersectoral harmonization and development
Croatian Livestock          of coordinating mechanisms and decision-making
Selection Center            decentralization.
2. Biodiversity conservation and soil protection guidelines  2. COL
and training for land-use and sectoral planning.
3. Monitoring of the biodiversity components for priority  3. INF
areas* (populations of target threatened species, selected
karst biotopes)
4. Preparation of spatial and management plan for Velebit 5. COL
Park of Nature and National park Northern Velebit
5. GIS and RS based inventory and monitoring system  6. INF
including acquisition of infrared colour aerial photos for
National Park Risnjak.
6. Biodiversity conservation and management of valuable  7. CON
forests within NP Plitvice Lakes and PN Velebit.
7. Project for the protection of local cattle breeds (busa cow  8. COL
and pramenka sheep)
8. Rural economy revitalization programme (conservation  9. CON/COL
of mountain meadows, organic farming, handicrafts
production, wood processing, etc.) including small
grants programme for firms and NGOs.
Ministry of Tourism      1. Legal and regulatory framework review and subsequent  I. COL
Institute of Tourism        revisions to incorporate biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use of natural resources
2. Development of national protected areas management  2. INF
and planning guidelines
3. PA system market analysis, promotion and marketing in 3. COLJCON
the project area
4. Web site for karst biodiversity                  4. INF
5. KEC project newsletter                           5. INF
6. Nature based tourism strategy for karst region   6. CON/COL
7. Preparation of National Park Plitvice Lakes carrying  7. INF/CON
capacity assessment and management plan
8. Preparatory works for the project on construction of  8. INF/CON
mountaineering path and trails in Velebit area
9. Rural economy revitalization program (conservation of  9. CON
mountain meadows, organic farning, handicrafts
- 81 -



production, wood processing, etc.) including small
grants programme for firms and NGOs
10. Implementation of Gacka river springs area protection  10. INF/CON
and revitalization of cultural heritage (mills)
11. Transboundary regional cooperation of karst PAs  11. CON
(Risnjak, Kupa valley, Sneznik, gkocijanske jame,
Koeevje, etc.)
Tourism agencies, Local  1. Development of national protected areas management  1. CON
Tourism Service Providers,  and planning guidelines
Mountaineering and
Climbing Associations
2. PA system market analysis, promotion and marketing in 2. COL/CON
the project area
3. Web site for karst biodiversity                3. INF
4. KEC project newsletter                         4. INF
5. Nature based tourism strategy for karst region  5. COLUCON
6. Preparation of National Park Plitvice Lakes carrying  6. INF
capacity assessment and management plan
7. Preparatory works for the project on construction of  7. CON
mountaineering path and trails in Velebit area
8. Rural economy revitalization programme (conservation  8. CON
of mountain meadows, organic farming, handicrafts
production, wood processing, etc.) including small
grants programme for firms and NGOs
9. Implementation of Gacka river springs area protection  9. CON/INF
and revitalization of cultural heritage (mills)
10. Transboundary regional cooperation of karst PAs  10. CON/INF
(Risnjak, Kupa valley, Sneznik, gkocijanske jame,
Koeevje, etc.)
County & Municipal      1. Review of and amendments to the biodiversity-related  1. CON
Governments                regulation, intersectoral harmonization and development
of coordinating mechanisms and decision-making
decentralization
2. Incorporation of biodiversity conservation in sectoral and 2. COL
land-use plans
3. Development of national protected areas management  3. COL
and planning guidelines
4. Formulation of a sustainable financing strategy for the  4. CON
PA system
5. PA system market analysis, promotion and marketing in 5. CON
the project area
6. Web site for karst biodiversity                6. INF
7. Biodiversity information inventory, mapping and  7. INF
monitoring system
8. Annual workshops on biodiversity in local county  8. COL
centres
9. Biodiversity conservation incorporated in land-use plans, 9. CON
land development and natural resource use in the karst
region.
10. Environmental education and local awareness   10. CON
development
11. Demonstration of linkages between rural development  11. COLSCON
- 82 -



and biodiversity conservation
12. Regional Cooperation Programme for Karst Ecosystem  12. INF/CON
Conservation (exchange of information, tourism
promotion and partnerships with other karst regions)
Parks Management and     I. Incorporation of biodiversity conservation in sectoral and 1. COL/CON
Staff                      land-use plans
2. Policies and guidelines for system of protected areas in  2. COL/CON
karst
3. Biodiversity information inventory, mapping and  3. COL/CON
monitoring system
4. Increased public awareness and support for biodiversity  4. COL/CON
conservation with active role of NGOs
5. Pilot demonstration projects on sustainable technologies 5. CON
that address priority threats to karst ecosystem
6. Nature based tourism strategy for karst region  6. COL/CON
biodiversity conservation, monitoring and evaluation
projects
7. Design of spatial and management plans an      7. COL
8. Strengthening capacity of local staff to manage  8. COL
Protected Areas
9. Environmental education and local awareness    9. CON/COL
development
10. Facility construction and equipment acquisition for PAs  10. COL
11. Demonstration of linkages between rural development  11. COL/CON
and biodiversity conservation
12. Regional Cooperation Program for Karst Ecosystem  12. COL
Conservation (exchange of information, tourism
promotion and partnerships with other karst regions)
Local entrepreneurs      1. PA system market analysis, promotion and marketing in 1. INF
the project area
2. Nature based tourism strategy for karst region  2. CON/INF
3. Design of spatial and management plans and     3. CON/INF
biodiversity conservation, monitoring and evaluation
projects
4. Environmental education and local awareness    4. INF
development
5. Facility construction and equipment acquisition for PAs 5. COL
6. Demonstration of linkages between rural development  6. COLICON
and biodiversity conservation
People living within and  1. Increased public awareness and support for biodiversity  1. INF
adjacent to parks (including  conservation with active role of NGOs
local farmners) Serbs and
Croats returning to villages
The rural poor Young people
Bosnian Croats
2. Nature based tourism strategy for karst region  3. CON
3. Design of spatial and management plans and     4. CON
biodiversity conservation, monitoring and evaluation
projects
4. People and Parks program development - includes a  5. COL
-83-



commnunity monitoring program
5. Enviromnental education and local awareness  6. CON/INF
development
6. Demonstration of linkages between rural development  7. COL/CON
and biodiversity conservation through rural revitalization
grants program
Social Development Objectives, Monitoring Indicators and Mechanisms
The findings of the SA led to the identification of social development outcomes for the KEC project and
were taken into account in reaching agreement in the design of the project. The following presents these
outcomes and the main SA report presents monitoring guidelines:
*      Decentralization of decision-making. The project requires the participation of key stakeholders at
the local level. Indicators would include having the local Mjesni Odbor" ("Board Place") organizations
contacted and becoming special liaisons with and conduits for local input into the KEC project; and locally
based leaders' assuming responsibility for implementing project activities where the intended beneficiaries
are local stakeholders who have the greatest vested interest in seeing that results are achieved (for example,
eco/cultural tourism; organic farming; sale of local products).
*      Integration of people and parks.  The project will establish a partnership between park
management and park residents and/or adjacent local communities around them. Public participation and
awareness-building programs will be required, and park management and local in-park/adjacent residents
will operate as a team to decide on policies guiding land-uses, biodiversity protection, and management
practices within park boundaries where the project will affect these stakeholders.
*      Support of existing centers of "social energy" and entrepreneurship. The project builds on the
pockets of "social energy" and entrepreneurship that already exist. Existing centers of "social energy" that
meet defined criteria are targeted as recipients/leaders of KEC project initiatives (for example, arts and
crafts, organic farming, community-based tourism development, environmental education, cultural
interests). Existing entrepreneurs are identified in sectors, consistent with KEC goals and "hands-on"
practical business/entrepreneurship training (business plan preparation, market demand and cash flow
analyses), is provided to individuals/groups who qualify, under defined and transparent criteria, as meeting
KEC project goals, by international experts; and the top tier of those undertaking training are given
financial support.
*      Poverty alleviation. The project contributes to poverty alleviation through economic development.
KEC support materially improves the medium/long-term outlook of the poor and vulnerable and/or does no
harm.
*      Beneficial or at least benign impact on those most vulnerable. The project does not adversely
affect those identified as vulnerable key stakeholders, and preferably offers them some benefit.
*      Ethnic and gender equality. The project can realistically achieve a balance of participation and
benefits among men and women and arnong different ethnic groups. KEC projects and processes are
underscored by concerted measures to encourage participation by a balance of men and women, and to
provide equal access to participation by all ethnic groups.
- 84 -



*       Achievement of "value-added."      Because of the project's merits, it has the potential to attract
capital and technical assistance from other sources, thereby enhancing the project's long-term benefits and
sustainability. KEC funds are supplemented by financial/technical assistance support of outside/non-KEC
sources.
*       Contributions to policy/legal changes. Either the project does not require a change in policy or
law to realize success, or an opportunity exists for the KEC to have substantive input into dialogues to
update policy/law and/or influence new legal and regulatory initiatives (for example, Forestry Law, Law of
Nature, Corporate Law). The project affords the KEC leadership an opportunity to have substantive policy
input to policy areas of particular relevance to the KEC's success and to social development objectives.
TABLE 3. MONITORING & EVALUATION GUIDELINES FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES
Intended Outcome                    Outputs                               Process Indicators
1. Decentralization of
decision- making
(a) Local Mjesni Odbor (Board Place)      (i) Conmmunications program informs local
organizations are contacted and, where   residents within and around each park and/or
appropriate, become special liaisons with, and  project area of the KEC project and solicits
conduits for, local input into the KEC project.  interest in participation.
(ii) Launch workshops are convened in each park
(b) Locally based leaders assume responsibility  and/or project area to shape projects & create
for implementing those sustainable economic  local oversight.
development KEC projects in those instances
where the intended beneficiaries are local  (iii) Benchmarks, defining tasks, target times for
stakeholders who have the greatest vested  completion and associated budgetary
interest in seeing that results are achieved  allocations are defined in a participatory
(e.g. eco/cultural tourism; organic farming;  process using a professional facilitator. Care
sale of local products, etc.).           is taken to ensure targets are measurable and
transparent.
2. Integration of parks (a) Parks management and local in-park/adjacent (i) Same as I (i) above.
and people              residents operate as a team to decide upon
policies guiding land uses, biodiversity  (ii) A policy is adopted by the MEPP
protection, practices within park boundaries,  that advocates the right of in-park
where KEC projects affect these stakeholders'  residents to have a say in decisions
lives.(c) Performance of benchmarks is     made regarding KEC-related
monitored systematically.                 initiatives affecting their lives.
(iii) In-park residents' committees are
established to provide input to parks
policies affecting them.
(iv) Measurable and transparent benchmarks are
established, using a professional
facilitator.(i) Every 3 months (or other
appropriate time interval), senior KEC
managers receive and review progress
reports. If targets are not met, assistance is
provided to identify and relieve barriers to
their achievement.
(b) Performance of benchmarks is monitored  (i) Every 3 months (or other appropriate  time
systematically.                           interval), senior KEC managers receive and
review progress reports. If targets are not
met, assistance is provided to identify and
- 85 -



relieve barriers to their achievement.
3. Support of centers  (a) Existing centers of social energy who meet  (i) Measurable criteria are established by KEC
of existing social     defined criteria are targeted as           and local participants to define social energy
energy                 recipients/leaders of KEC project initiatives  in a participatory manner.
(e.g. arts and crafts, organic farming,
community-based tourism development,   (ii) A short list of potential project participants is
environmental education, cultural interests).  derived. Criteria include demonstration of
recent exemplary initiative consistent with
KEC goals, and value-added potential, in
terms of economic, environmental and equity
goals of the KEC project.
(iii) Social energy centers are provided with
professional assistance to generate business
plans and are selected based on a transparent
procedure;
(iv) Transparent benchmarks are established in a
participatory manner to monitor the
performance of each social energy participant.
(b) Performance of benchmarks is monitored  (i) Every 3 months (or other appropriate time
systematically.                           interval), senior KEC managers receive and
review progress reports. If targets are not met,
assistance is provided to identify and relieve
barriers to their achievement.
4. Support of         (a) Existing entrepreneurs are identified in  (i) Possible pilot project leaders are identified.
entrepreneurship         sectors consistent with KEC goals.
(ii) Recipients of training are geographically,
(b) Hands-on practical business/              ethnically and gender-balanced.
entrepreneurship training (business plan
preparation, market demand and cash flow  (iii) Other criteria include value-added
analyses) is provided to individuals/groups  (likelihood of employment; return of youth;
who qualify, under defined and transparent  reinforcement of biodiversity and cultural
criteria, as meeting KEC project goals, by  heritage goals) and likelihood of success.
international experts.
(iv) On-going business advice is provided by
(c) The top tier of those undertaking training are  business monitors over the course of business
given financial support.                  start-up.
(v) Transparent benchmarks are established in a
participatory manner to monitor the
performance of entrepreneurial recipient.
(d) Performance of benchmarks is monitored  (i) Every 3 months (or other appropriate time
systematically.                           interval), senior KEC managers receive and
review progress reports. If targets are not met,
assistance is provided to identify and relieve
barriers to their achievement.
5. Poverty            (a) KEC support materially improves the   (i) Preference, in terms of selection, is given to
alleviation/benign     medium/long-term outlook of the poor and  those demonstrating that their success will
impact               vulnerable and/or does no harm.            have a favorable direct or indirect effect on the
vulnerable and poor. (In some cases support of
the young, for example, may have a positive
indirect effect on their vulnerable elderly
families.
6. Ethnic and Gender (a) KEC projects and processes are underscored (i) Communications programs introducing the
equality of            by concerted measures to encourage        KEC project and inviting participation reach
access to            participation by a balance of men and women,  all ethnfic groups. Special efforts are made to
participation in the   and to provide equal access to participation by  reach women (e.g. through women's groups,
KEC project          all ethnic groups.                         the Red Cross, etc.)
- 86 -



(ii) Mjesni Odbor/local committees formed of
residents around the parks reflect a gender
balance, and a proportional representation of
ethnic groups to their overall population;
(iii) Leadership positions in KEC projects and
programs are gender balanced and ethnically
proportional to population.
7. Value-added       (a) KEC funds are supplemented by        (i) Outside funding sources, such as those listed
financial/technical assistance support of  in Section 7, are successfully solicited for
outside/non-KEC sources.                support of various KEC projects.
8. Participation in  (a) The project affords the KEC leadership an  (i) KEC works with tourism interests to exempt
policy/legal changes   opportunity to have substantive policy input  the tourism industry from the Corporate Law
to policy areas of particular relevance to the  that is impeding the purchase of local goods by
KEC's success, and to social development  the Parks. (Tourism is different than other
objectives.                             sectors in that tourists have a particular desire
to buy local, as opposed to imported,
products.) KEC, with parks' management,
provides useful input to the new or impending
Law of Forests and Law of Nature.
Implications for Project Design and Implementation
The following summarizes the main implications for the SA for project design and implementation:
*       The KEC project should aim     not only at establishing a sound participation program, but at
ensuring that decision-making be decentralized to the local level as much as possible.
*       Participation and decentralization activities should build on existing organizational structures, and
centers of "social energy" and entrepreneurship, wherever possible. While people in the study area tend not
to get involved in organizations, there are some areas where there are notable exceptions. These should be
capitalized whenever possible to develop participation programs and decentralize the KEC initiatives,
rather than trying to develop new organizations. The people involved in the existing groups tend to be
those with good ideas, but they are often already over-extended. One of the most promising vehicles for
involving villagers in decision-making, related to the KEC project, is a new type of organization called
"Mjesni Odbor" (MOs), or "board place"" These organizations were recently announced by the national
government as vehicles to allow formal village input to municipal authorities (local mayors). By employing
these emerging MOs as vehicles for the KEC, the project may be able to assist an important new initiative
of government, by encouraging them to develop and become active.
*       The inclusion of a "People and Parks Integration Program" can strengthen the links between the
national parks and protected areas as well as the local populations who live in and around them. The
program can involve the development of people and parks liaison committees that include a range of
stakeholders (for example: park residents, adjacent communities, park managers, NGOs, etc). The
benefits to stakeholders could be significant, including reduction of conflicts through increased
understanding of conservation issues by local people, increased understanding of local issues by parks
management people, and increased employment and opportunities for adjunct economic activities by local
people.
*       The project can support the development of a National Parks and Alternative Tourism Strategy and
Action Plan. The development of the tourism sector in the project area will need to be based on rebuilding
- 87 -



the coastal tourism industry. As increasing numbers of tourists travel to Croatia, it may be possible to
attract them in greater numbers to Plitvice as well as the other parks in the study area and the emerging
alternative ecotourism attractions (for example, the caves) in Lika-Senj. However, certain constraints need
to be dealt with, notably the land mines issue, which is a very major impedimnent to any "non-packaged
tour" type of tourism in the interior part of the project area. It is recommended that a tourism initiative be
carried out as part of the KEC project, to encompass baseline research of supply-side/product; market
analysis; tour operators perceptions surveys (international and national operators); "compaTables"
evaluation (for example, Slovenia); packaging opportunities; constraints and opportunities; and action
strategy.
To address the concerns of several stakeholders regarding the loss of cultural heritage, another
recommendation is to include in the KEC project some type of cultural heritage conservation initiative (for
example, a traditional environmental and cultural knowledge program). Such a program can be directly
related to karst ecosystem biodiversity conservation issues and help support the protected areas. The
forests of Velebit, for example, hold botanical resources that have been used for generations for a wide
variety of uses by the people who have lived in the area. Recording of traditional cultural activities related
to the environment, and devising a plan for their maintenance, can have many benefits to both present and
future stakeholders, and to the environment as well.
The project also can be used as a vehicle for promoting linkages between biodiversity conservation and
rural development issues, through, for example, support of organic products and traditional species. While
it is recognized that the KEC project is an initiative under the GEF program, and strongly focused on
biodiversity issues, some of its activities may be able to support and promote linkages with rural
development. For example, there may be opportunities in line with stakeholders' interests and the
suitability of the resource base in the study area, to include activities focused on the promotion of organic
agriculture and traditional species or research on the feasibility of introducing some type of rural
resettlement program or entrepreneurship and business development program involving sustainable,
conservation-oriented activities.
- 88 -



Additional Annex 12
CROATIA: KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT
Financial Management Assessment Report
FM Report for PAD for PSCP - New Format
1                                     3112/02
1. Executive Summary and Conclusion
A review of the Financial Management arrangements for the project was undertaken in December 2001 to
determine whether the fmnancial management arrangements within the PIU are acceptable to the Bank. It is
concluded that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. The MEPP and PIU have also agreed to take the following measures:
Action                                                            Deadline
I     Prepare FMRs                                                First half year after
Effectiveness
2      The PIU to select auditors acceptable to the Bank, to audit the Grant  09/30/2002
accounts.
A summary of financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management Assessment   Rating                     Comments
1. Implementing Entity (PIU)        Moderate   PIU is successfully implementing the
Bank financed Biodiversity Conservation
Project (KECP)
2. Funds Flow                       Moderate    Same fimds flow as existing project
3. Staffing                          Moderate   Experienced project management and
___________________________________            financial  team
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate  The P1U has a project specific operational
manual
5. Internal Audit                    Moderate  Internal Audit carried out by the Court of
Accounts (for KECP).
6. External Audit                    Moderate  The project will be audited by the same audit
firm that has audited the KECP and issued a
clean opinion.
7. Reporting and Monitoring          Moderate  PIU prepares reliable PMRs, under the
KECP
8. Inforrnation Systems            Moderate     The PIU has a FM system in place
Overall Financial Management        Moderate
Rating
-89 -



Detailed financial management assessment questionnaires are included in the project files.
2.     Project Description Summary
The project has three components are as follows:
Component 1. Build national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support sustainable resource use
US$1.78 miDlion Activities to strengthen national capacity fall into five sub-components: (i) Strengthening
laws and regulatory framework; (ii) Strengthening national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation.;
(iii) Expansion of species and taxa under legal protection; (iv) Biodiversity inventory, mapping and
monitoring; and (v) Increasing public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation.
Component 2. Establishing community-based mechanisms for biodiversity conservation and
sustainable resource use in the karst region $US530 milion . The project will support measures to
preserve the globally significant biodiversity in the Karst region through community level activities and
capacity building for protected area management. Activities to meet this objective fall into three
sub-components: (i) Promotion of sustainable nature based tourism.; (ii) Increasing local public awareness
and support for biodiversity conservation; and (iii) Improve protected area management and services for
biodiversity conservation.
Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring US$132 million The project will finance the
establishment and operation of a central PIU located within the MEPP in Zagreb and composed of a project
manager, a procurement specialist, financial management specialist, and assistant. The project will also
finance a local PIU that will be located within the county/municipal physical planning office in Gospic, one
of the two county seats included in the project. The local PITJ staff to be funded by the project are the field
coordinator and an assistant.
3.     Country Financial Issues
CFAA for Croatia was carried out in 1999. The reforms carried out to date in the area of financial
management put Croatia ahead of many other CEE countries. Croatia has, in fact, set up a modem legal
and regulatory fiamework, compatible with the needs of a market-driven economy, completely discarded
the old accounting system and opted to introduce a comprehensive new framework based on international
guidelines. In order to enhance public sector financial management and to achieve a higher level of
accountability, the issues related to the integrity and universal coverage of the budget process need to be
addressed in greater depth, together with the start of the Treasury, the modernization of accounting and
reporting systems and the further development of the institutions in charge of budget compliance through
internal and external audits. Bank rehabilitation is under way but additional efforts are needed to strengthen
banking supervision and improve credit institutions risk-management. Financial markets and their
regulatory institutions need further development; this would also make the privatization process more
effective. Market competition and corporate govemance are main areas to be reformed to achieve greater
transparency and financial accountability for the private sector. The organization of the accounting and
auditing profession should be defined by a self-regulating and standard-setting national body, ensuring the
application of high standards of ethics and progressively taking on the functions currently performed by the
government.
To improve the overall public sector accountability, the reform of the institutions (namely, the ZAP and the
relevant Departments of the MoF) currently involved in the accounting, reporting and internal control
-90-



functions needs to be addressed. In conclusion, the establishment of an adequate financial management
framework for the public sector requires the modemization of accounting systems, the harmonization of
reporting formats as well as the introduction of effective internal controls and auditing functions.
4.     Financial Management System Assessment
4.1    Project Management and Coordination
The MEPP will have overall responsibility for project implementation. A national level project
implementation unit (PIU) will be established in the MEPP Division of General Environmental Policy. The
PIU will build on the existence of the KECP project preparation implementation unit. The PIU will be
responsible for all procurement, disbursement and financial management aspects of the project as well as
oversee the work of consultants, organize seminars and training. The PIU will be responsible for
coordinating with other donors in the implementation of components which will be supported through
parallel and co-financing. It will also be responsible for all reporting requirements to the Bank and the
Government. It is staffed by a project director, procurement and disbursement specialist, an accountant
and an assistant, funded under the project.
4.2    Staffing of the Accounting/Finance Function
The accountant is familiar with financial and accounting systems as well as with Bank requirements. The
experienced was gained during the preparation phase of the proposed project and the implementation of the
IDF and GEF Grants. She would be responsible for all aspects of the financial management and
accounting, including maintaining books of accounts, reporting day-to-day transactions. She will also be in
charge of the special account and preparation of SOEs and replenishment of the SA (see para 4.3).
4.3    Accounting and Internal Controls
The PIU will take all necessary steps to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies
(OP/BP 10.02). This would include the establishment of proper accounting procedures and internal
controls, which has been documented in an operational manual. The manual was reviewed and approved
by the Bank.
4.4    Computerized Accounting Systems
The PIU is responsible for overall project financial management and accounting for the project. The PIU
has established a financial management system acceptable to the Bank, prior to Board. The system will
produce simplified FMRs, in line with the Grant amount ($5 million).
4.5    Audited Financial Statements and Management Letters
The PIU will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Audited Project
Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank with the audit report six months after end of each year
audited. Cost of the audit will be financed through Grant. The PIU will select the auditors acceptable to
the Bank by September 30, 2002.
4.6    Financial Manual
Operational procedures and guidelines for project financial management is documented in a Financial
Management and Operational Manual, encompassing all levels of project management and administration.
The Manual includes financial management and staffing, identification of accounting and auditing
standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procedures for cash and
- 91 -



asset management and format of project management reports.
4.7    Conclusion
It is concluded that the PIU meets the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
5.     Financial Flows
A special account will be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. All contracts will be
concluded by the PIU. The PIU will prepare all the relevant documents, obtain the required clearances. All
payments will be made through the accounting department of the MEPP (as required by law), who will
operate the Special account in Euros and a local account (in Kuna). Counterpart funds would be paid from
the budget allocation of the MEPP.
6.     Financial Monitoring Reports
The PIU will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. It has been agreed that the PIU will be responsible for designing appropriate financial monitoring
reports (FMRs) and preparing FMRs on a half yearly basis. The FMRs include:
*      Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*      Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*      Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*      Project Progress reporting
*      Procurement Monitoring
7.     Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed KECP is considered a moderate-risk project. A
summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
Risk Assessment
H                       SMNComments
1. Inherent Risk
Croatia                                                        XOverall corruption is high and
governance is inadequate.
Project Management Unit                                        XThe   PIU   established  for the
operation of an IDF Grant and GEF
Grant will implement this project.
Project                                                        XThe project is well conceived. The
Government has demonstrated a high
level of conimitment and concern
regarding the forestry sector and will
contribute approximately 39% of
project cost.
Overall Inherent Risk                                          XThe project is implemented by the
PIU and not a government agency, as
a result the project is ring-fenced.
The overall risks are moderate.
2. Control Risk
-92 -



1. Implementing Entity                                          XPIU  is well versed   in  Bank
procedures, having dealt with Bank
projects.
2. Funds Flow                                                   XBased on the experience gained
under the IDF and GEF Grants , no
problems are seen.
3. Staffing                                                     XQualified and experienced staff are
already on board.
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures                           XPIUJ   has  a   project  specific
operational manual.
5. Internal Audit                                               NA
6. External Audit                                               XAuditors acceptable to the Bank
will be appointed
7. Reporting and Monitoring                                     XSimplified reporting and monitoring
formats have been agreed and will be
implemented.
8. Information Systems                                          XThe PIU has a FM system in place
Overall Inherent Risk                                           X
H - High      S - Substantial     M - Moderate         N - Negligible or Low
8.     Disbursements
Disbursements from the Grant will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the
Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Grant Account). The proceeds of the World Bank Grant will
be allocated in accordance with Table C, Annex 6. To facilitate timely project implementation, the MEPP
will establish, maintain and operate a special account under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The option to move to a FMR based disbursements will not be considered.
9.     Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the MEPP would establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the bank, a special accounts in Euros in a commercial bank for the GEF grant.
The selection process and criteria for selection of the commercial bank will follow the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook procedures. Applications for the replenishment of the account will be submitted
at least every three months or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, which ever occurs
earlier. The necessary documentation, the special account bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank
statement will support the replenishment application
10.    Financial Covenants
The following are the covenants relating to financial matters:
*      The PIU will select an audit firm to audit the project accounts by September 30, 2002.
*      The Government will cause the PIU to have its records, accounts and financial statements audited
each year, commencing with the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2002.
- 93 -



11.    Supervision Plan
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a quarterly basis by the field based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Audit reports of the project will be reviewed and issues
identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implemented by the PIU.
- 94 -



A U S T R I A   <,.>                      ctCROATIA
_vt~ ~    ~ 1 7 _  -f .-\               MEDAM               HU NG A RY                                KEC PROJECT REGION
> _           *^ _ , >. AZDA < Ct r rS.                                                                         KEC PROJECT REGION
_  )  ~ ~ ~ ~~ <   [ ZAGORSKAH  +,  \                   (t    r    .                 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NATIONAL PARKS
*      ~~~~S L O V E                     G _9i  REX 9g^  Q  D_    1.- Rier  ,--                                NATURE PARKS(PAND
<<   KPar  t                        > - <   > -- E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^~~ '' ^-|~~~~~~ 1> ~~~~  RIVERS
-;~~~~~.                                                 0   MAJ r  ,~;tONOR TOWNS
. -  . R|>\ liloturePX,& )|4KS: 1  .  -   -- 2.                                *   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
FF{ - - , F 1 ,~~~v,; 6                                                                          ~,'>1r'  >t' REGION BOUNDARIES
7  | X  +   \ SJ Fh^c4 r > j   ,  <      1   ALr     t    r             -*- ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
\  Pulo  g  , {Wv ,j PE   - -  Se;|.ccl        ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r               rh.5,nOO wo5 D>O ltbyllreMoohoonD5eTisopngsprdoed y  donMayDeign nitofnTeowrldhonk
\                                           )  2  '  '  .  .&rk  $i  rX  rrxrefcarA , rno'orrehenlolocceplonceof5uchbrundonr5~~~~~~~h.boudaies coor, dmmi.f.nson a..th, nf-io
\/                                       7  "  ;  s  tDIrl ; u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N    LATAA     RUSSIAN
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~ -0 S Nn It BONA A N D                     D./W,~-I             !-_
\  '' - ~~ O.zSa. '  _>  L         H E R Z E G O V I N A                            ,    ,Z.     'ALi-N         ,
\   ,   ^  |  \                                 >   ; | r 5       l             r   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BEtARUS  q
\  /  t   -   t                                      ori,1 .'       q   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POLAND 
C;.   -  ~~~~-lo S-ber-  - |                                             ,   GERMAANY                *  ^ _, ,}
s   \   j; -, -  53|1  ,      \                           -r t  B  *$~~~~    ~~~~~~~~   ~    ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LUX  'b  UKRAINE
, r--. .- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ \ , ~~~~~~~z                    . r_ gP  \ 
0   25   50   75   100  \  \                   Ob2    -   R                 I    |       3-;    I E  *  4\    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
CtlOFFS/x9'-eji,,j, E:i_ i~-~_



