                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                           Report No: ICR0000799




               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (TF-50539 TF-53242)




                                          ON A

                        GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT




                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.10 MILLION
                             (US$5.07 MILLION EQUIVALENT)




                                         TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF CROATIA




                                          FOR A

                     KARST ECOSYSTEM CONSERVATION PROJECT




                                         June 2008




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 25 2008)

                                      Currency Unit =   Kuna
                                              1 Kuna =  US$0.21
                                              1 US$ =   4.66 Kuna

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1   ­    December 31

                                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




BSAP  Biodiversity Strategic Action Plan                M&E       Evaluation and Monitoring
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                       MEPP      Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical
CARDS Community Assistance for Reconstruction,                    Planning
      Development, and Stabilization                    MOAF      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
CRRG  Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants      MoC       Ministry of Culture
CSOs  Civil Society Organizations                       MP        Management Plan
DO    Development Objective                             Natura    Ecological Network in European Union Territory
DOI   Department of the Interior                        2000
E-6   European 6 Hiking Trail                           NEAP      National Environmental Action Plan
ECSSD Europe and Central Asia Sustainable Development   NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
      Unit                                              NP        National Park
EMP   Environment Management Plan                       NPS       United States National Park Service
EU    European Union                                    OP        Operational Program
FMR   Financial Management Report                       PAD       Project Appraisal Document
GEF   Global Environmental Facility                     PDF-B     Project Development Fund B
GIS   Geographical Information System                   PIU       Project Implementation Unit
HQ    Headquarters                                      SA        Social Assessment
HRK   Croatian Kuna                                     SOE       Statement of Expenditure
HS    Hrvatske Sume - Croatian Forest Company           TF        Trust Fund
HV    Hrvatske Vode - Croatian Waters                   UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and
IBRD  International Bank for Reconstruction and                   Cultural Organization
      Development                                       USAID     United States Agency for International
ICR   Implementation Completion Report                            Development
IUCN  International Union for Conservation of Nature    WWII      World War II
KEC   Karst Ecosystem Conservation                      WWF       World Wildlife Fund
LAB   Local Advisory Board



              Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
           Country Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
            Sector Manager:    John Kellenberg
       Project Team Leader:    Karin Shepardson
           ICR Team Leader     Karin Shepardson

                                                           CROATIA
                                 Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project


                                                         CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design..................................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.............................................................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes..........................................................................................................8
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................................13
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ...................................................................13
 6. Lessons Learned......................................................................................................................15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.........................16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing........................................................................................17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................................18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis...............................................................................26
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes...........................27
 Annex 5. Methodology for CRRG Impact Assessment, Including Beneficiary Survey.............29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................................32
 Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................................36
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................37
 Annex 10. KEC Project Update of Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators.................................38
 MAP IBRD No. 31890

A. Basic Information
                                                                     Karst Ecosystem
Country:               Croatia                 Project Name:         Conservation GEF
                                                                     Project
Project ID:            P042014                 L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-50539,TF-53242
ICR Date:              06/26/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR

Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Borrower:             GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                     CROATIA
Original Total
Commitment:            USD 5.1M                Disbursed Amount:     USD 5.0M

Environmental Category: B                      Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Culture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Norway Ministry of Foreign Affairs
US Agency for International Development (USAID)
Goverment of the Netherlands

B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/08/2000     Effectiveness:        09/17/2002       09/18/2002
Appraisal:             11/26/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/23/2002     Mid-term Review:      04/04/2005       03/09/2005
                                      Closing:              12/31/2007       12/31/2007

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Highly Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome             Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:              Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:         Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:             Highly Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

                                                 Quality at Entry
at any time (Yes/No):
Potential Problem Project No                     (QEA):               None

Problem Project at any                           Quality of
time (Yes/No):            No                     Supervision (QSA):   None

GEO rating before
Closing/Inactive status   Highly Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 30               30
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  41               41
Law and justice                                                    9                9
Other industry                                                    12               12
Sub-national government administration                             8                8


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                     Primary         Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                          Primary         Primary
Export development and competitiveness                           Primary        Secondary
Law reform                                                      Secondary       Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                               Primary         Primary

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           John V. Kellenberg                  Laura Tuck
Project Team Leader:      Karin Shepardson                    Rita Klees
ICR Team Leader:          Karin Shepardson
ICR Primary Author:       Karin Shepardson
                          Vera Dugandzic




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Project Development Objective is to: (i) strengthen institutional and technical capacity
for biodiversity conservation of the Karst environment; (ii) integrate biodiversity
conservation into physical planning and sectoral strategies; (iii) strengthen management
of protected areas; and (iv) promote entrepreneurial and tourism activities which support
sustainable natural resource use and conservation.

  Global Environment Objective: To conserve biological diversity and ecological
integrity of the karst ecosystems in Croatia particularl in the Dinarid mountain range
which includes an estimated 8000 caves- among the deepest and most extensive in the
world.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
Global environment objectives and key indicators were not revised.

  The Project Development Objective stated is taken from the Grant Agreement




  Note: To assess achievement of the GEO, the key performance indicators as described
are taken from the PAD and were used in ISR reporting based on most recent updates at
the mid-term review (see Annex 10).

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                              documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Completion of PA Management Plans consistent with international best practice.

Value                                                                         All 5 PA
(quantitative or 0                         5 completed PA                     management plans
Qualitative)                               management plans                   are completed and
                                                                              legally in effect.
Date achieved 09/22/2002                   09/22/2005                         12/20/2007
Comments
(incl. %         100% and confirmed to be consistent with international best practice
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    An integrated sustainable ecological monitoring system is in place and in use.

Value                                      Baseline inventory                 Baseline inventory
(quantitative or 0 %                       completed; rangers                 and mapping of BD
Qualitative)                               in all 5 parks                     database complete;
                                           inputting data                     system installed in



                                                iii

                                                                                 Ministry of Culture
                                                                                 with all parks and
                                                                                 rangers/ staff
                                                                                 inputting data.
Date achieved 09/22/2002                    09/22/2005                           12/20/2007
Comments
(incl. %         100% - 12 training sessions conducted on database use for staff.
achievement)
                 Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants (CRRG) program directly
Indicator 3 :    contributes to adoption of more ecological sustainable land and natural resource
                 use practices.
                                                                                 70% of CRRG
                                            70% of the CRRG                      project grant
                                            projects include                     contracts include
                                            contractual                          commitment by
                                            provisions to adopt                  beneficiary to adopt
Value                                       specific improved                    specific improved
(quantitative or 0%                         practices and                        practices. From the
Qualitative)                                100% of these                        70% with these
                                            show clear                           committments, 86%
                                            progress towards                     successfully
                                            fulfilling those                     completed showing
                                            commitments.                         clear progress /
                                                                                 14% were
                                                                                 cancelled.
Date achieved 09/22/2002                    06/22/2005                           12/18/2007
Comments
(incl. %         100% target met (with dropped grants excluded).
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Revised        Completion or
                                                documents)       Target Values      Target Years
                 Each of the 5 parks is able to provide visitors with a diversity of information and
Indicator 1 :   interpretation (I/II) products, which reflect the training provided under the
                project.
                                                                                 All parks have 3 or
                                                                                 more new
Value                                       Each park has                        materials: guide
(quantitative or 0 I/II products            produced 3-4                         books, childrens
Qualitative)                                different I/II                       book, calendar,
                                            products                             posters, outdoor
                                                                                 panels, leaflets,
                                                                                 maps.
Date achieved 09/22/2005                    09/22/2005                           12/18/2007



                                                 iv

Comments
(incl. %         100%- target fully met or exceeded by parks. Products were generated as a result
achievement)     of the project training.

Indicator 2 :    Putting in place a system within each park for tracking trends in visitor
                 satisfaction
                                                                                First survey
                                                                                executed in all
                                                                                parks for
                                                                                management plan
Value                                       Park Managers                       input. Park tourism
(quantitative or 0                          using the survey at                 survey questions
Qualitative)                                least once a year                   were subsequently
                                                                                integrated into
                                                                                annual tourism
                                                                                board surveys and
                                                                                parks are using this
                                                                                data.
Date achieved 09/22/2005                    09/22/2005                          12/18/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Target Fully Met- 100%
achievement)     Also 6 local tourism training workshops, 2 system wide tourism workshops held.

Indicator 3 :    Increased and strengthened partnership relating to park management. Number of
                meetings involving Slovenia and Bosnia.
                                                                                Over 8 meetings
Value                                       8 meetings with                     with external
(quantitative or 0                          external partners                   partners focused on
Qualitative)                                conducted                           international
                                                                                cooperation.
Date achieved 09/22/2002                    09/22/2005                          12/20/2007
Comments         Proposal for joint hiking trail with Slovenia and Italy (multiple meetings); Plivice
(incl. %         meetings with Bosnia and Herzegovina, meeting with Hungary to share
achievement)    database, Austria workshop meeting.
Indicator 4 :    Number of employed KEC park staff trained in management planning
                                                                                66 KEC park staff
Value                                                                           trained (complete
(quantitative or 0                          100 staff trained                   group); over 20 non
Qualitative)                                                                    KEC park staff
                                                                                participated in
                                                                                trainings.
Date achieved 09/22/2002                    09/22/2005                          12/20/2007

Comments         100% of park staff trained as # of staff was lower than 100 staff estimated and
(incl. %         staff from other parks joined the training.
achievement)     Original target -approx. 88% met. Study tours to US and Italy included
                 important training on management

Indicator 5 :    Expenditures (US$) on various types of assets (equipment,works) for PA
                 management
Value                                                                           US$2,827,006 - All
(quantitative or 0                          US$1,500,000                        works and
Qualitative)                                                                    equipment contracts


                                                  v

                                                                  fully procured
                                                                  according to
                                                                  workplan (grant and
                                                                  Ministry of Culture
                                                                  contributions).
Date achieved 09/22/2002              09/22/2002                   12/18/2007
Comments
(incl. %       186% achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                        Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived            GEO                      IP            Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     09/04/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     12/11/2002        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     06/05/2003        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             0.30
  4     08/07/2003        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             0.60
  5     12/15/2003        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             0.65
  6     06/15/2004        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 1.03
  7     12/22/2004    Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 1.69
  8     05/14/2005    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory             2.00
  9     09/13/2005    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory             2.49
  10    02/07/2006    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory             3.07
  11    06/12/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 3.13
  12    03/09/2007    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory             3.91
  13    06/01/2007        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             4.00
  14    09/10/2007        Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory             4.38
  15    12/27/2007    Highly Satisfactory     Highly Satisfactory             4.72



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                          vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) indicated that Croatia needed to develop and
maintain its infrastructure and protect its environment to encourage private sector development. Since
tourism, most of which is nature-based, is a key sector for Croatia's economic growth, the country's
natural resource base needs to be carefully preserved. In support of these objectives, the CAS
recommended that the Bank help the government obtain a Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant for
environmental protection in one of the country's major tourist destinations, Plitvice Lakes National Park
(NP). The CAS identified high unemployment (19 percent) as one of Croatia's major economic problems;
containing poverty was one of four key CAS policy objectives. Unemployment in the project region was
identified as among the highest in the country at about 40 percent. Therefore to increase economic
development, the project aimed to support local rural initiatives related to sustainable natural resource
use, tourism, and biodiversity.

Global Operational Strategy/Program Objective Addressed by the Project

The project supported the objectives of the GEF Biodiversity Operational Programs for coastal, marine
and freshwater ecosystems (OP2), mountain ecosystems (OP4) and forest ecosystems (OP3). Activities
concentrated on the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources of international importance in
the karst region of Croatia, the most mountainous and most heavily forested region (70 percent forested as
compared to 38 percent for Croatia as a whole). Freshwater resources of the karst include large
underground reservoirs providing a natural buffer for rainwater and water circulation--providing water
security for Croatia and the surrounding region.

Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy

Croatia at the time of appraisal was faced with challenges to balance economic development of an
impoverished region with conservation of globally significant natural resources. Accelerated economic
development, including through tourism, without strong national- and local-level capacity to protect
natural resources, threatened to erode Croatia's ability to safeguard its biodiversity. The government was
coping with scarce resources and competing interests in dealing with the following obstacles: (i)
insufficient capacity within government to conserve biodiversity in the karst region; (ii) lack of
collaboration among sectors to incorporate biodiversity conservation into physical planning and sectoral
strategies; (iii) a general lack of environmental awareness regarding karst ecosystems; and (iv) a history
of limited public participation in the decision-making process. Both the Croatian National Biodiversity
Strategic Action Plan (BSAP) and the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) identified karst
ecosystems as the priority for biodiversity conservation. The project addressed priority actions outlined in
the BSAP including: (i) preserve the biological and landscape diversity of the karst region as an area of
global value; (ii) improve inventory and monitoring of biodiversity; (iii) raise public awareness; and (iv)
participate in regional efforts to manage biodiversity.

Post-war Croatia was on a fast track of economic development, spurred in part by prospects of future EU
accession. Historically the tourism industry, once a mainstay of the Croatian economy, was based on mass
tourism rather than nature tourism. As the tourism industry rebounded, biodiversity conservation suffered
and other sector development projects that typically damage biodiversity, such as roads and hydropower,
were also proposed for the project region and seen as key threats. Threats to karst ecosystem biodiversity
were not well documented at the time of appraisal due to limited scientific data. The BSAP and NEAP

noted that a lack of systematic inventory and monitoring of the ecosystem and species provided an
insufficient basis for determining the nature and magnitude of threats to biodiversity. However, habitat
changes and fragmentation, water and air pollution, extensive exploitation of natural resources, and
introduction of foreign species had been observed in the project region. Both the subterranean and
terrestrial karst ecosystems were known to be fragile, interconnected, and dependent upon a delicate
balance among relief, hydrology, climate, and vegetation. The predominant surface ecosystems of natural
forest and traditional pastoral land generally buffer the subterranean ecosystems but the effectiveness of
this function can be significantly reduced by subtle changes in land use and vegetation cover. For
example, land use changes can lead to the rapid influx of water significantly altering the subterranean
ecosystems. At the time of appraisal these threats had been partially averted by reduced economic activity
during and after the 1991-95 war, but were starting to increase.

Global Significance of the Croatian Karst Ecosystem

Croatia enjoys an unusually rich biodiversity of global significance due to its geography, between the
Mediterranean and Central-European continental climatic regions, and its geology, which is
predominantly karst. The term "karst" originated in Croatia and applies to a specific landscape and
morphology characterized by the presence of limestone or other soluble rocks, where drainage has been
largely diverted into subterranean routes. The project focused on the karst region within the Dinarid
Mountain range, which runs through Croatia from Slovenia to Bosnia, because its biodiversity is the most
globally significant (approximately 9500 square kilometers). The Dinarids include hundreds of sinkholes,
chasms, underground streams, and caves. Its estimated 8,000 caves are among the deepest and most
extensive in the world and render the region a global hotspot of subterranean biodiversity. These
subterranean karst habitats support an ever-increasing list of newly discovered endemic troglodytic
(eyeless and adapted for an entirely subterranean existence) species and families. These include one new
species, genus, and family of leech Croatobranchus mestrovi, which was found in a 1300-meter deep
cave in the Velebit Mountain in 1994. Additional unique species found in Croatian karst ecosystems are
the only known cave sponge, cave clam, and cave polychaete worm.

Croatia is famous for its karst freshwater ecosystems, which include travertine/tuffa-building
communities of microorganisms. The travertine barriers, some estimated to be over 40,000 years old,
have led to the spectacular lakes and waterfalls now protected within two national parks, one of which
was included in the project, Plitvice Lakes National Park. Large areas of the Dinarids, particularly in the
Velebit Mountains, are densely covered by forest communities of beech, fir, spruce, and black pine, a
relict alpine sub-species found only in the Velebit area. The Karst region contains the largest area of
unfragmented forest in Croatia, the integrity of which is evidenced by viable populations of large
carnivores (wolf, brown bear, and lynx). Plitvice Lakes National Park is on the United Nations
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) World List of Natural and Cultural
Heritage; the Velebit Mountain Range is part of the UNESCO Man and the Biosphere Program, and has
been identified by WWF's Forest Hot-spot Initiative as one of the ten most important forest areas in the
Mediterranean region.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
The project's global objective is to conserve biological diversity and ecological integrity of the karst
ecosystems in Croatia particularly in the Dinarid mountain range which includes an estimated 8000 caves-
among the deepest and most extensive in the world. The project development objective in the PAD was
that local residents, tourists, and other visitors to participating national parks and other protected areas in
the karst region refrain from practices identified as detrimental to biodiversity conservation and adopt
recommended behaviors that preserve and protect the unique features of the karst environment through
the following actions: (i) strengthen institutional and technical capacity for biodiversity conservation of
the Karst environment; (ii) integrate biodiversity conservation into physical planning and sectoral


                                                        2

strategies; (iii) strengthen management of protected areas; and (iv) promote entrepreneurial and tourism
activities that support sustainable natural resource use and conservation.

The grant agreement project objective states:        "The objective of the Project is to: (i) strengthen
institutional and technical capacity for biodiversity conservation of the Karst environment; (ii) integrate
biodiversity conservation into physical planning and sectoral strategies; (iii) strengthen management of
protected areas; and (iv) promote entrepreneurial and tourism activities which support sustainable natural
resource use and conservation."

Key indicators included in the PAD were the following:

     · Stable or increasing numbers among two to three indicator species in Croatia Karst Ecosystem
         Conservation (KEC) project region;
     · Increased public knowledge of Croatian karst ecosystems, species, and habitats and impacts of
         human behavior on biodiversity;
     · Decreased number of human behaviors destructive to biodiversity in protected areas;
     · Users of protected areas in the KEC region increasingly satisfied with park management services;
     · Increased numbers and revenues of entrepreneurs in the KEC project region.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
No formal World Bank Board revision of objectives or indicators was carried out. During the mid-term
review and the supervision mission in October 2005, a special effort was made to reassess and refine
project monitoring indicators. The project development objective as stated in the grant agreement was
considered binding, although efforts continued to measure human behavior change through some
indicators. Results of this review included the definition of four adapted indicators, which were used for
the remainder of the project in ISR reporting and are described in detail in Section 2 and Annex 10.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PAD defined a broad range of beneficiaries with a stake in how the karst ecosystem resources are
managed, including the following: (i) national, regional, and local government institutions (including
MEPP, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MOAF), Croatia Forest Company (HS), Ministry of
Tourism, and Croatia Water Company (HV)); (ii) national and nature parks managers in the project area;
(iii) local residents and resource users (farmers, forest users, HS employees, herders, service providers to
national parks and park visitors); (iv) national and local NGOs; (v) the academic community and research
institutes; and (vi) tourists.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1. Build national capacity to conserve biodiversity and support sustainable resource use.
Activities to strengthen national capacity were divided into five sub-components:

     (i)    Strengthening laws and regulatory framework. The project financed a review and/or revision of
            biodiversity-related regulations and sectoral strategies to incorporate biodiversity conservation
            concerns. The project financed training for government agency staff and others on using
            protected area guidelines--MOAF, Ministry of Tourism, HS, HV; physical planners; protected
            area staff; NGOs, and citizens.

     (ii)   Strengthening national capacity to ensure biodiversity conservation. The project financed
            preparation of protected area management and planning guidelines, which include biodiversity
            concerns; guidelines for community and NGO participation in protected area management; a



                                                      3

          protected area system market analysis, promotion and marketing plan; a protected area
          financing strategy; and a pilot project on biodiversity information dissemination. The project
          developed and conducted a ranger training program.

   (iii) Extending areas under legal protection based on discovery of significant species and taxa.
          Project preparation identified the Ogulin and the Kupa Valley for further analysis of
          biodiversity; the project financed feasibility studies--assess water management linkages with
          biodiversity conservation; funded equipment for underwater biodiversity monitoring; and
          supported policy updates of the list of taxa under legal protection.

   (iv) Biodiversity inventory, mapping, and monitoring. The project financed consultant services and
          equipment for inventory and mapping of biodiversity priority areas (identified by the BSAP and
          Comprehensive Biodiversity Survey); a specific inventory of cave biodiversity in the project
          region and equipment necessary for such; a study of cave hydrology in the project region; and a
          monitoring program for large carnivores in the project region. The project financed
          development of a Geographical Information System (GIS) for the project region, plus the
          database and staff training for GIS use.

   (v)    Increasing public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation. The project financed
          development of a public awareness strategy; development of a website and TV spots on
          biodiversity conservation; a guide to karst biodiversity; annual workshops/festivals on
          biodiversity conservation; and preparation of a traveling exhibition on biodiversity and the
          KEC Project.

Component 2. Establishing community-based mechanisms for biodiversity, conservation, and sustainable
resource use in the karst region. The project supported measures to preserve the globally significant
biodiversity in the Karst region through community-level activities and capacity building for protected
area management. Activities to meet this objective fall into five sub-components:

   (i)    Promotion of sustainable nature-based tourism. The project financed development of a local-
          level tourism strategy that includes assessing the region's nature-based tourism potential and
          economic opportunities in tourism; a visitor management plan for selected protected areas; and
          preparation and field works on the European-6 (E-6) hiking trail--a branch of a large network
          of hiking trails that spans Europe.

   (ii)   Increasing local public awareness and support for biodiversity conservation. The project
          financed preparation of national park promotion materials like leaflets, brochures, posters,
          calendars, outdoor informational boards, and trail interpretation guides to promote the unique
          characteristics of the karst area for park visitors, local population, and schools.

   (iii) Improved protected area management and services for biodiversity conservation. In each
          protected area in the project, the project financed refurbishment of existing visitor structures,
          information kiosks, and research facilities; a "people and parks" program, each designed and
          intended to support community involvement in the decision-making process; field works; data
          acquisition, processing and interpretation equipment; field equipment; and staff development in
          skills such as interpretation, education, monitoring, and research.

   (iv) Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program. The goal of this sub-component was to
          demonstrate linkages between rural development and biodiversity conservation through a
          Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants program (CRRG). The CRRG program supported
          entrepreneurial projects that demonstrate linkages among sustainable use of natural resources,


                                                       4

          economic development, and biodiversity conservation. Grant activities included support to local
          communities to develop small businesses such as tourism services, crafts, food services;
          support of demonstration projects linking conservation and sustainable natural resource use
          such as traditional agricultural activities, forestry and water resource-related projects; and
          public education and outreach activities

    (v)   Regional Cooperation Program for Karst Ecosystem Conservation. Financial support was
          provided to encourage partnerships with Croatia's neighbors, particularly Slovenia (Risnjak and
          Kupa River Project), in support of transboundary solutions to biodiversity conservation. The
          project financed the inventory and monitoring of biodiversity in the border region; supported
          harmonization of a cross-border management plan, promoted joint tourism marketing;
          supported promotional materials and international workshops; and study tours and participation
          in international and regional workshops, training, and partnership development.

Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring
The project financed the establishment and operation of a central PIU located within the MEPP in Zagreb,
comprising a project manager, a procurement specialist, financial management specialist, and an assistant.
The project also financed a local PIU located in the county/municipal physical planning office in Gospic,
one of the two county seats included in the project.

1.6 Revised Components
Project components were not revised. During implementation, they were partially reorganized for
reporting purposes, given that synergies existed across several activities.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
No significant changes were made in the project design, scale of investments, or schedule. During
implementation, the responsible line Ministry changed from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Planning to the Ministry of Culture reflecting government-wide reorganization of responsibilities for
Nature Protection. This shift was implemented smoothly and did not disrupt project implementation.
Midway through the project, the Project Coordinator accepted a government position within the Ministry
of Culture while retaining her project coordination responsibilities. The Bank considered this a favorable
transition to a more sustainable management unit embedded fully within government decision-making
structures. Other Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff remained contracted and paid through the Grant
until project close, after which time the Ministry retained them on government payrolls for project closing
actions. The most significant change in project financing was the addition of a US$200,000 grant for the
CRRG program by the Norwegian Government (just after mid-term) to extend the scope and reach of this
successful and in-demand sub-program. Although the amount is not large, in the aggregate it was
significant to the CRRG program and allowed seven additional small grants to be financed. Other
additional funds that were leveraged by the project are described in detail in Annex 3.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project used a government-executed GEF Project Development Fund (PDF)-B grant to support
preparation that included extensive public participation over a year and a half. Additionally, a Canadian
Trust Fund supported Social and Rural Development Assessment and helped identify and elaborate
specific project design and investment priorities. The assessment quality was high and a substantial
amount of the feedback and suggestions were taken into account in the final project design. For example,
the assessment recommended emphasizing the integration of a People and Parks theme through park
education, outreach, research, and community liaison mechanisms, a theme that became the backbone of



                                                      5

the final project design. The assessment also recommended a focus on Rural Economic Revitalization,
concentrating on organic products and traditional species, which developed into the project's successful
CRRG program. Stakeholder feedback identified the critical loss of heritage and cultural features,
including traditional knowledge and historic buildings, due to war damage, which led to several small
grants, including for a documentary film to recapture traditional knowledge and revitalization of
traditional craftsmanship (production of shingles, http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JsOymgdbXM).
Stakeholder feedback also led to project support for specific investments outside of parks, such as
refurbishing an old flour mill at the source of a karstic river, which helped link revitalized cultural
traditions with environmental education in partnership with local commerce/tourism boards.

Key lessons learned from earlier operations were taken into account including (i) the decision to
decentralize some project PIU staff; (ii) the decision to link the CRRG program management to the park
conservation strategies; and (iii) the extensive public participation/consultation designed into the project
activities. Design of the CRRG program used a World Bank Manual on good practice in small grants in
agriculture projects. The project was well integrated within the Croatia World Bank Country Assistance
Program--creating synergies with new operations and building on earlier ones. None of the key risks
materialized to affect implementation, so the negligible-to-modest ratings for mitigation in the project
appraisal document (PAD) were appropriate. The least-changed risk was that hotel debt servicing in
Plitvice Lake National Park drains resources from biodiversity conservation. At the end of the project, the
park budget still lacked transparency in the separation of tourism services from biodiversity conservation
work, however the park management plan includes costed action plans that provide a new transparency-
enhancing tool to track and negotiate expenditure balances across park objectives. A related risk--
unsustainably high park visitor levels at Plitvice--is recognized in the 2008 approved Management Plan,
which specifies strategies to manage visitors more sustainably, including redirecting them to sites outside
the park that the project supported (e.g., ecologically sensitive cave tours). However further options
should continue to be explored at Plitvice National Park to better manage tourism demand in line with the
park's natural carrying capacity.

The 2007 World Bank Croatia Public Finance Review reinforced the recommendation that government
separate park tourism service budget accounts from conservation management activities; however, this
had not occurred at the time of the ICR. The project, constrained by its geographic-specific focus, stopped
short of addressing more systemic park issues that require a national perspective, including development
of a national park financing system. While the project design did not specifically promote moving to a
"system" of protected areas (respecting the historic autonomy of parks and the limited geographic scope),
by the end of the project, a vision for a national system of parks had gained broad support, thus creating a
need and impetus for a more integrated financing plan for the future.

2.2 Implementation
Project implementation was smooth overall. There were no restructuring or significant changes, the
project had regular high ratings, and it was never in an "at-risk" status. There was a March 2005 mid-term
review with a July 2005 follow-up mission to refine monitoring and evaluation indicators (Section 2.3
below).

A time-consuming implementation issue was the legal transfer of property for the Velebit Nature Park
that the Department of Defense donated to the City of Gospic, and the City donated to the Velebit Nature
Park. Although the site was identified and agreed in principle during preparation, over time the lengthy
legal transfer process became a project risk. Some grant reallocations were considered, but strong support
from local city officials ultimately prevailed to complete legal transfers before project close.

Another implementation concern related to government procedures is ensuring that park management
plans have a sound legal framework. In Croatia, spatial plans have a higher legal status (parliamentary


                                                       6

approval) than any other plans, including park management plans, which are considered subordinate.
Therefore, considerable efforts were made throughout implementation to involve the project Steering
Committee and the Ministry responsible for Spatial Planning on harmonization of planning procedures. A
close working relationship that relied heavily on informal coordination across ministries was developed,
which satisfied both sides.

During later project supervision, the task team leader and the procurement staff were based in the Croatia
Country Office, which helped to ensure regular and timely supervision support. The PIU staff
decentralized to Gospic were important for maintaining a local presence for CRRG beneficiaries and for
local county and municipal engagement.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
Overall the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design for the project was appropriate with some
adjustments at the mid-term review to better capture key project outputs. Project monitoring relied on data
collection by the PIU from parks and other sources including outputs of project activities, consultant
reports, park progress reporting and external survey data. A detailed review of the performance and
impacts of the CRRG program was conducted at project end (see Annex 5 for methodology) to identify
lessons learned for future programs in Croatia and elsewhere. The PIU's comprehensive regular reporting
on the CRRG program provided a solid foundation for this work. This final report was highlighted as a
best practice evaluation model in a World Bank review of over 100 projects with small grant programs,
and it will be disseminated through a 2008 publication.

The project development objective in the PAD and grant agreement varied in their inclusion of a
modifying sentence focused on changing human behaviours detrimental to biodiversity conservation.
Differences in PAD and grant agreement wording were more common at that time without a results
framework which in more recent projects help provide a stronger emphasis on the link between objectives
and results in the design. While the grant agreement version is considered most "binding", project
monitoring did include several indicators to help measure changes in human behavior. One of these
indicators, i.e., the number of violations of park regulations, was dropped at the mid-term review because
(i) it ran counter to ranger training that focused on issuing warnings rather than penalties for violations,
and no historic data on warnings were available; and (ii) staffing levels and violations were strongly
correlated, which was a more accurate indication of stronger enforcement than reductions or changes in
destructive practices. Further analysis showed that "destructive" practices identified (e.g., littering) were
not highest among the main threats to the karst, although improving behaviours still remained very
important. All monitoring indicators were extensively reviewed during the October 2005 supervision
mission; some indicators were revised, some were dropped, and others were added (See Annex 10 for
detailed rationale of performance indicator updates).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Project safeguard and fiduciary compliance was satisfactory throughout the project. All procurement post-
reviews and financial management audits were satisfactory (clean and unqualified audits). The small
grants program included environmental safeguards screening in its processing guidelines and this was
well integrated into the implementation process. Five small grants recipients had problems understanding
and/or following procurement rules, which resulted in a return of grant funds (and one legal action). All
civil works received environment permits and followed the agreed Environmental Management Plan
(EMP), and World Bank supervision missions documented this process. Works at historic sites had
special permits (several experienced construction delays related to obtaining permits). Specialized locally
certified contractors with traditional skills and tools were required at some historic sites (e.g., the old flour
mill restoration at Ogulin). Construction of the Velebit Nature Park headquarters building was halted
temporarily to address a church and community-led objection to the building site location due to concerns
that a WWII mass grave may have existed on the site (a former military barrack). This objection was


                                                        7

resolved to the satisfaction of the community; the project was redesigned and the building footprint was
shifted away from area of concern. This was achieved within existing contract time and budget. Both
Bank team leaders were safeguard specialists so no external safeguard support was required.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Ministry of Culture through the Ministry of Finance submitted a formal request to the World Bank
for continued joint work on Nature Protection investments. Croatia has requested an International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan for Nature Protection to expand and replicate the KEC
project successes to the wider network of National and Nature Parks; advance action plans prepared under
the KEC Project park management plans, including investment in critical infrastructure (visitor centers,
etc.); strengthen nature protection functions at the county level, and strengthen human resources capacity
to meet the challenges of European Union (EU) accession. The Bank has responded favorably to this
request and is launching a project preparation mission in July 2008.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project design is highly relevant to current country priorities, including EU accession, which was not
formally under way at project appraisal. In 2008, institutional development for strengthening
administration for the environment is a high priority with a targeted accession date (when EU legislation
would take effect) in the short term (less than five years). The project made a substantial contribution to
strengthen this capacity, which helped Croatia during the EU "screening" of readiness for accession- as
this sub-sector of the environment was considered to be the most prepared. The CRRG program outcomes
and lessons learned are relevant to the design of EU agricultural funds programs for rural development
(which includes Natura 2000) and should be disseminated more broadly in this context.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
Key Achievements: Some KEC key achievements are as follows:
    · Promoted new Nature Protection Legislation in Croatia making park management plans a
         requirement.
    · Prepared, developed, and adopted into law, five national parks management plans (the first to be
         legally adopted in Croatia);
    · Established visitors' centers and additional park infrastructure at five sites;
    · Significantly enhanced government and public awareness of the importance of karst ecosystems
         and their potential role in Croatia's future development strategies;
    · Enhanced professional capacity of park managers and rangers; and
    · Successfully implemented the small grants program that demonstrated linkages among land use,
         business practices, and biodiversity conservation.

All KEC activities are either continuing with park budget support or have been completed and established
demonstrations for replication to other parks that have additional funds. Evidently, the introduction of
management plans and budgeted actions plans for parks is increasing central budget funding for nature
protection. Examples of ongoing work include the veterinary faculty's ongoing research and tracking of
large mammals (e.g. bear, linx) using new state-of-the-art radio collar equipment supplied by KEC;
biodiversity inventory work and management planning processes have been replicated to other parks and
will continue to be rolled out to more parks and Natura 2000 sites across Croatia (with EU funds); and
models of park visitor centers financed and demonstrated through KEC, which will be extended to other
parks (called for in new Nature Protection legislation).

Key outcomes of the CRRG program identified by the independent evaluations (see Annex 5) include the
following:



                                                       8

    · Improved the well being of local people and grant beneficiaries in KEC project area;
    · Added social value through grant beneficiary dissemination of their experience with local
        beekeepers, breeders, and entrepreneurs. Municipal income has increased and regional rural
        economic development has attracted additional support of US$700,000;
    · Supplied new knowledge and skills that will stimulate other area stakeholders. Modern concepts
        of natural resource use are beginning to revitalize traditional practices such as the production of
        shingles, or traditional meadow maintenance, which are environmentally friendly and a potential
        income-generation source for local households. Rural revitalization and sustainable nature
        protection activities have generated significant interest among local people;
    · Improved beneficiaries' knowledge of and attitudes toward biodiversity and nature protection.
        Members of local advisory boards, seminar participants, proposal writers, and grant beneficiaries
        acquired knowledge on actions which combine nature protection and local development potential;
    · Demonstrated direct impacts on land and natural resource use, business practices, community
        attitudes and behavior, and alternative income generation (see section 3.3 below).
    · The Program has also improved regional capacity for micro-scale and small-project development.
        Project grants have helped develop knowledge and skills in project preparation and business
        practices and increased knowledge on the conservation and protection of nature and biodiversity;

3.3 Efficiency
Financial and economic efficiency were evaluated on the degree to which non-GEF funds could be
leveraged to achieve project objectives, which is a basic assumption of GEF Incremental Cost Analysis.
An estimated US$3.3 million in non-GEF contributions anticipated at appraisal was exceeded by more
than US$500,000 after accounting for a falling US$ exchange rate1 (Annex 3). A total estimated
US$1,744,051 was provided in additional local-level contributions, with the highest contributions from
the National Park Northern Velebit (US$960,000) and additional investment by small grant beneficiaries
to complete their projects as planned (US$380,000). These estimates are conservative because they do not
account for costs of many initiatives enabled through KEC investments, or for recurrent costs at parks,
which increased due to project investments. Examples of leveraging beyond planned central ministry
funds include supplements from individual park budgets, land donations, and construction works
contributed by municipalities that complement KEC-financed works. (See Annex 3)

Current budget projections are for an increased central budget share of spending on nature protection of
20-30 percent over the coming years. Park budgets in the baseline were estimated at US$1.69 million over
the five-year project life; and this was exceeded in the last two years alone (2007-08) with a budget for
the five KEC parks of over US$2.11 million. Park management plans were approved in 2007, and their
actions plans with detailed costs are strengthening and improving the transparency of annual budget
requests and resulting in higher appropriations.

On the revenue side, Croatia has a sound legal basis to allow parks to promote local concessions and
retain user fees, and many parks have already taken advantage of this opportunity. Further work should be
done to promote innovations in park financing to enhance local-level revenue collection.           This is
especially relevant for Croatia as it moves toward a "system of protected areas" requiring stronger
financial and institutional links among parks.




1 8.31 Croatian Kuna/US$1 at appraisal and 4.66 Croatian Kuna/US$1 at ICR




                                                      9

At appraisal, the CRRG program management cost/grant ratio was considered high at 25 percent but
justified because this was a pilot program. At project end, the ratio had dropped to 15 percent because a
staff member left and was not replaced, and the government of Norway had added funds to the program.

CRRG impacts on alternative income generation (independent evaluation): The CRRG program has
contributed to the economic prosperity of the project areas. Apart from direct income for small grant
recipients, and the ability to provide short-term localized employment, an important contribution of the
CRRG program lay in safeguarding the future of these sustainable resource use-based activities and
services. In terms of direct income, all analyzed projects are financially positive, ie. they have either not
generated losses or have started generating positive financial results. Most experienced positive results
regarding alternative income generated. As a result, they helped to revitalize almost forgotten crafts and
created additional employment. The review was unfortunately unable to gather specific data needed to
quantify income gains. In general it appears that beneficiaries of small grants aimed at income generating
alternative income seem to have been successful in this regard, though not always to the extent envisaged
at the time of proposal writing. Perhaps more importantly than these short-term income gains, however,
beneficiaries increased their capacities and received certifications as organic producers, both of which
will tend to increase their productivity and incomes over the medium and long term.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The project is rated as Highly Satisfactory based on accomplishing key objectives, effective project
implementation including for safeguard and fiduciary aspects, wide engagement of local stakeholders in
project activities, the project's catalytic effect on the government's overall nature protection program, and
contributions to EU accession preparations. The project contributed substantially to advancing nature
protection management in Croatia. The government's desire to continue to expand KEC work through
increasing government funds, EU funds, and ongoing Bank support ensure many channels of future
support to build from this project experience.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts
One of the most significant contributions of the project was to provide a solid platform for building an
EU-harmonized nature protection system. This catalytic effect of helping Croatia advance toward
harmonization with EU Nature Protection legislation was not fully envisioned at the outset of the project
and must be attributed in part to adaptive project management, which seized opportunities to demonstrate
the relevance and value of the ongoing work toward accession objectives.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The Project overlapped geographically with several government-designated "Areas of Special State
Concern," i.e., parts of Croatia that are war-torn and underdeveloped. A Social Assessment (SA)
conducted during project preparation found that the KEC project area was economically depressed, the
most depopulated region in the country with the highest out-migration of young people and with
traditional agricultural practices largely abandoned. Lika-Senj county, comprising more than 80 percent
of the project area, had the highest unemployment rate in Croatia at about 40 percent, and some of the
most vulnerable people in the project area were the elderly living on minimum pensions and welfare
support. The CRRG Program Evaluation provided compelling evidence that Program funding for 24
projects has enabled better living standards for beneficiaries.2 Although direct incomes did not rise


2 There was no requirement for social impact screening in the CRRG program when assessing proposals, however,
the manual required the final reports of each grant refer to "social, ecological and economic results achieved during
performance of the project."


                                                         10

significantly, the project contributed to economic survival and provided opportunities for local people to
acquire new knowledge and skills that will help secure their future. Funded activities have enabled
supplemental employment in additional sectors, for example, catering, transport, and tourism; the parks
visitor centers provide employment for local young people and increase local economic development by
promoting nature-based tourism. Further economic development in the project area will require
development incentives but most of the funded projects have improved local livelihoods.

In the project region, little information on the status of women was identified, although it is well known
that a higher share of poorer households are headed by women, most of whom are widows, and that the
lives of rural women are difficult as they are responsible for farm work and household duties. The CRRG
Program modestly contributed to economic empowerment among rural women by providing funding for
entrepreneurial activities. Six of the 24 beneficiaries were women, and local women served on three
regional advisory committees that evaluated project proposals and selected finalists.

The Project managed to surmount and reverse a legacy of resentment and narrow the gap between people
and parks by consulting a broad range of stakeholders and bringing people most affected by the project
into the park decision-making process. Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) involved in current Country
Partnership Strategy consultations have praised the KEC project role model. During preparation, the
project team consulted some 150 environmental NGOs--a process that was seen as a major novelty
during a time when lack of trust in local institutions was rampant, lack of meaningful community
participation in park management decisions was the norm, and parks were functioning primarily in
isolation. Typically, local people were neither consulted nor involved in any park activities, even if
directly affected. During supervision missions, parks' management and local population representatives
emphasized how public consultations thoroughly transformed the preparation and development of parks
management plans; the CRRG Program; and regional cooperation program (transboundary protected
areas with Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project directly influenced Croatian nature protection legislation by promoting and demonstrating the
management planning process that was subsequently adopted into law. An independent EU Community
Assistance for Reconstruction, Development, and Stabilization (CARDS) project evaluated the project
guidance documents on park management planning developed from the project's practical piloting
experience (Risnjak) and confirmed that they were the best international practice and fully applicable for
EU Natura 2000 sites. A 2006 joint workshop between KEC and the EU CARDS project focused on
harmonization of the management planning process and confirmed the widespread demonstration effect
of KEC on other parks and donor-financed initiatives. Legal changes updated procedures for designating
new protected areas, including broader public input requirements and incorporating scientific research
steps that the KEC project undertook for the proposed Ogulin and Kupa River Valley sites.

Significant institutional strengthening occurred when individual parks teams gained international
exposure to other country park systems through study tours and exchanges and their five-year engagement
with a range of project activities. A USAID-sponsored study tour was particularly effective for building a
cohesive team spirit among participating park staff close to project launch. Project design--one large
consultant contract plus international experts subcontracting many local teams--proved to be an effective




                                                     11

capacity transfer/strengthening mechanism. The project increased central government capacity in nature
protection, and the CRRG beneficiaries reported significant capacity gains.

The "Monitoring Corridors and Population Dynamics of Large Carnivores" project component focused
significant attention on the "green bridges" introduced as environmental mitigation during new highway
construction in Croatia. Infra-red sensors installed on these green bridges combined with radio collar
tracking showed that a significant number of large mammals (bears, lynx, wild pigs, etc.) used the bridges
to cross highways safely and reconnect their territory, although some illegal hunting occurred on bridges.
The project supported a longer-term monitoring plan to track animal migration patterns and deter illegal
hunting, and the national highway company agreed to finance the monitoring plan after the project, an
example of "mainstreaming" nature protection responsibilities into the transport sector.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The opportune timing of the KEC project provided a just-in-time platform to demonstrate the many
changes that will be required in nature protection to achieve EU accession. For example, KEC-modeled
management plans are now required for EU Natura 2000 sites and the KEC biodiversity database system
will be expanded to all parks and Natura 2000 sites in Croatia. In parallel with the project, the government
prepared an implementation plan for EU Nature Protection Directives that cited the KEC project as an
important baseline component.

Project-supported biodiversity monitoring resulted in recommendations to revise and update the Red
Book on the threatened status of some types of butterflies and confirmed the presence of rare cave-
dwelling albino salamanders (proteus anguinus) previously unknown in this part of Croatia.

The original project design focused on a specific geographic area of Croatia but project impact was felt at
the national level due to regular engagement with stakeholders and park staff throughout the country
during workshops and learning/ capacity building activities.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The project conducted numerous workshops throughout implementation, including five annual two- or
three-day beneficiary and stakeholder workshops, which were important for coordination and
communication and included other government agencies, local governments, donors, CRRG beneficiaries,
park staff, and NGOs. Park staff participation from outside the KEC region helped disseminate project
work more broadly at national level and build a vision of a future "park system" for Croatia, an idea that
was receiving full endorsement at project close.

During the project, three national park management planning workshops were held to support piloting,
testing, and ultimately, replication of the parks management planning process. Concrete workshop outputs
included standard formats for management plan agreements, methodology for stakeholder involvement
and participation, management planning guidelines, and action plan agreements, which can also be used
to monitor and follow up on management plans. Project consultants helped each park conduct a series of
workshops with local stakeholders as part of their park management planning process, and the final
workshop, organized jointly with an EU CARDS-financed project "Capacity Building for the State
Institute for Nature Protection," focused equally on progress and on reporting on the park planning
process outside the KEC area.

The project piloted Croatia's first underground karst Cave Management Plan, and used two targeted
stakeholder workshops to engage the speleological community on cave-specific objectives and challenges.
Agreements were reached on the management plan model at Manita Pec and plans for replication at nine
other tourism caves in Croatia. By raising awareness of the project-generated cave inventory and database,
the workshops provided an opportunity for caving clubs/hobby speleotologists to contribute to data


                                                     12

collection; the workshops were also a national forum for other cave ecosystem issues such the extent and
impacts of illegal solid waste disposal in Croatian caves.

In 2006, two international workshops were held with Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina to discuss
development of an international karst hiking trail and cross-border tourism promotion. Long-term
working relations, which were established among the staff at Risnjak (with Slovenia) and Plitvice
National Parks (with Bosnia and Herzegovina) and international counterparts, are ongoing and reflected
in park actions plans that specify continued cross-border cooperation. At the end of the project, the
Austrian-Croatia chamber of commerce expressed interest in financing work to realize the transboundary
karst hiking trail plans.

Eight project-supported workshops were held to deepen understanding of tourism potential in the KEC
area--two information-sharing, and six capacity-building workshops. A final report, "Assessment of the
Tourism Patterns and Recommendations for Sustainable Tourism Development in KEC Area," defined
two tourism promotional programs, "The Wild Large Carnivores of Risnjak NP," and "The Velebit Park
and Mills of the Gacka Valley," offered through collaboration between the parks and local tour operators.
Effective project coordination efforts with Ministry of Tourism addressed bottlenecks in the process of
local branding of nature- and park-related products.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome was rated moderate based on the importance of the project to EU
accession, which is the primary government agenda at project end and the foreseeable future. In the
context of EU membership, nature protection will become a higher priority and with effective preparation,
Croatia will absorb additional EU grant funding for complementary rural development actions and for
Natura 2000 payment schemes. Most risks identified in the PAD did not materialize due to well-
implemented mitigation measures, and risks that remain are being mitigated after introducing park
management plans that improve funding transparency and management of visitor access. More systemic
park financing reforms should align with political decisions for a wider system of protected areas and
harmonize with concurrent public finance decentralization (consistent with EU reforms) anticipated in the
near term. Protected areas and sustainable inland nature-based tourism assume greater importance in a
global context of climate change that may disproportionately affect Croatia's coast. Institutional changes
could occur; for example, responsibility for nature protection could be returned to the Environment
Ministry. However, given the past smooth transition, no major disruptions would be expected.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The quality at entry and thoroughness of project preparation, including extensive stakeholder input, was a
significant factor to overall project success. The Bank and consultant team was extensive, well-qualified,
and included team members with local Croatian knowledge. Preparation was paced well to allow
sufficient time for multiple stakeholder inputs, which were taken into account in the final design. Key
project investments and activities were identified clearly up front and based on rigorous analysis that
eased tracking of project progress and outcomes against the PAD. The project implementation manual
and the CRRG program manual were detailed and functional and incorporated lessons learned from
earlier operations. Some monitoring indicators were adjusted mid-stream, a practical and flexible



                                                     13

response to new and more reliable information that emerged during implementation rather than poor
project design. A more elaborated project development objective in the PAD than the grant agreement
could be considered a preparation flaw given the heavy weight of evaluation of impacts and outcomes
against PDO today.. However it was not considered a significant issue for action given that the grant
agreement version correlated most directly with project components. Overall project implementation is
impressive in terms of how closely it went according to plan, including closely adhering to the original
disbursement schedule (ICR data sheet). In hindsight the project should have planned for financial
management software rather than rely on Excel spreadsheets, which proved time-consuming for a project
of this scale with multiple donor funds to track. Further simplification of procurement procedures for
small grants might also be considered in hindsight, however procedures were already simplified so this
would be constrained by World Bank fiduciary requirements.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team's quality at supervision is considered fully satisfactory. The Bank team composition
shifted over time, but despite transitions, always maintained continuity on the historical perspective. Bank
missions participated regularly in stakeholder workshops to understand issues and add an international
perspective to discussions. The core supervision team was fully decentralized during the last two years of
the project, which facilitated quick response on implementation issues such as the need to shift the
building footprint for the Velebit Nature Park building. Mission reports consistently raised important
strategic and implementation issues that helped encourage the client to maximize benefits from this
project. The Bank team requested a CRRG independent evaluation, exemplifying extra efforts taken to
increase the value of project metric outcomes to extract lessons learned. Procurement, financial
management, and environmental safeguards were satisfactory throughout the project, except for a few
difficult CRRG grants with cancelled or returned funds, which are well documented in the final impact
assessment report.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory and is well appreciated by the client, and validated
by a government request to continue to work together through a follow-on loan largely based on
the value the client places on the international perspective the Bank team brought, and the quality
of Bank systems and team support.

5.2 Recipient
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Government performance refers to central government partners--primarily the Ministry of Culture and
PIU with overall project leadership. Government performance is rated as highly satisfactory based on
clear ownership, commitment to project objectives, and support for sector reform adjustment consistent
with project objectives. Throughout this project the government actively engaged stakeholders in a
manner that stood out above other Bank projects in Croatia at the time. The Ministry was effective in
convening Steering Committee members and in sharing information with other Ministries in a
collaborative fashion, and openly and professionally promoted some tougher discussions on conflicts




                                                    14

relating to forestry, hunting, and spatial planning procedures.3 Key project issues were resolved in a
timely manner and all fiduciary responsibilities were met such that the project stood out in the overall
Bank/Croatia portfolio. The government maintained excellent relations with other donors and was
proactive in seeking follow-up donor and own-budget support to continue activities under the project.
Transitional arrangements after closing were exemplary and further demonstrate commitment--project
staff were retained on government budget to complete fiduciary and reporting tasks, and the project
director was promoted to leadership responsibilities within the Ministry (highest civil servant position).

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Implementing agencies are the Park Management units in the five project parks; their performance is also
rated as highly satisfactory based on their high level of engagement in the project and their openness and
willingness to change and test new methods of local management. They demonstrated local ownership by
investing additional funds and by involving other local stakeholders in continuing project work. Park
management units facilitated timely resolution of local-level issues and helped facilitate work with local
partners. Their dedication to the project and effective voice and openness to discussing problems
contributed to effective problem solving and overall project success.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Client performance is rated highly satisfactory based on the extent to which the project objectives were
fully integrated with their ongoing work agendas. The cohesive government and park management teams
openly discussed key issues and constraints experienced between national and local levels, which led to
proactive solutions on priority actions.

6. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned include:
Thorough preparation lead to a well-tailored design: Project preparation was extensive and included,
for example, a detailed gap analysis between county planning documents and protected areas plans,
extensive public consultations, and a social and rural development assessment, all of which strongly
influenced the final design and led to a range of different but specific investments that were supported for
each park, and some activities common to all parks.

Government and park staff ownership and continuity are critical to project success. The project
enjoyed solid ownership from both responsible Ministries and park staff. Transfer of the project from
MEPP to the Ministry of Culture in March 2004 was smooth and key PIU staff were retained. Many
unaccounted-for hours of park staff time supported project tasks and although additional staff were
needed, there were enough for regular participation in capacity-building activities and return-knowledge
transfer, critical for sustainability.

Decentralized management of the Small Grants Program and strong support of local self-
government was critical to program success: The local PIU office in Gospic, in the county of Lika
Senj, helped facilitate local-level inter-sectoral coordination and planning. Since Gospic was a proposed



3 Agreements were reached on the need for legislative reform to create "one" forestry law; spatial plans were
harmonized with park management plans; and monitoring of illegal hunting on green bridges was reinforced.




                                                        15

regional development pole, co-locating PIU staff there offered potential for close coordination between
the program and county development plans. Decentralized management supported an enhanced direct
partnership with end beneficiaries such as community-based organizations, NGOs, entrepreneurs, and
local residents. Extensive local stakeholder involvement, including local governments, was crucial for
long-term project sustainability.

Aggregating most project consultant services into one large contract was efficient and effective. The
one-contract arrangement created a long-term partnership/engagement with a core team of international
professionals who subcontracted many local teams to execute tasks, which resulted in capacity building or
training for local consultants. Furthermore, the longer-term contract fostered and promoted consultative
park management plans, which take time and repeated efforts to involve local communities. The lead firm
from a bordering EU state was also a positive factor for this type of longer-term engagement.

To achieve a balance among types of small grant activities, it is recommended that each type of
activity is funded through different windows. Income-generating projects were in higher demand than
education and capacity-building projects; however, the need for capacity-building remained at the end of
the project. A better balance might have been achieved through dedicated funds for capacity building
rather than having a single window for education, capacity building, and income generation projects.

Support projects that improve on existing project ideas. The CRRG Program proactively encouraged
local people to prepare project applications and the Program fostered entrepreneurial pursuits. Project
proposals that were not selected in the first round were given additional support to improve on their ideas
and proposals, with the result that more than half were accepted in the second round. All applications
were retained in a database for consideration in case additional funding became available. Unfinanced
project proposals from Primorsko-Goranska county were retained and later included in the project
pipeline for the EU Regional Operational Programs. Such lists and databases not only provide ideas for
further development but also incentives for more proactive local rural development.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Comments by the Borrower on the Draft ICR are presented in Annex 7 and were very positive concerning
outputs/results. No new issues were raised.

(b) Cofinanciers
The Norwegian government who directly financed additional CRRG grants has continued to provide
support to the Ministry of Culture focused on replicating the GIS/computer and land aspects of the
biodiversity database system the KEC project initiated, to other parks in Croatia.

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders
The Bank in its 2008 consultations for the new Partnership Strategy for Croatia received comments from
NGOs/CSOs that they highly appreciated the opportunity for public involvement in the KEC project in
particular.

The EU delegation in Croatia reviewed the draft ICR and wrote "Thank you for the document. I went
through it, and I do not have any comments I would highlight except to compliment all involved in the
team for the work done on this project."




                                                    16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                          Actual/Latest
            Components             Appraisal Estimate                          Percentage of
                                    (US$ millions)          Estimate
                                                         (US$ millions)          Appraisal

STRENGTHENING NATIONAL
CAPACITY TO CONSERVE
BIODIVERSITY AND SUPPORT                        1.83                  1.91         104
SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE
USE.
COMMUNITY BASED
MECHANISMS FOR
BIODIVERSITY
CONSERVATION AND                                4.88                  5.01         103

SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE
USE IN THE KARST REGION
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND MONITORING                                  1.26                  1.38         110

UNALLOCATED                                     0.40                     0          0


               Total Baseline Cost              8.37                  8.30          99
Physical Contingencies                          0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                             0.00                  0.00
                Total Project Costs             8.37                  8.30          99
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                  0.00
        Total Financing Required                8.37



(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal     Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds             Type of                                   Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing      Estimate       Estimate
                                                     (US$ millions) (US$ millions) Appraisal

Borrower                                                      3.30          3.26       99
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                             5.07          5.04       99




                                              17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Build National Capacity to Conserve Biodiversity and Support Sustainable Resource
Use
Development of Karst Ecosystem Biodiversity GIS and Database. The project constructed, established,
and maintained a Karst Ecosystem Biodiversity Database on national and local levels. Construction of a
database with adequate technological support and education for its use has a permanent value and makes a
considerable contribution to the long-term and sustainable management of biological diversity in Croatia.
All data collected during the inventories of speleological objects, flora and fauna were entered in a central
database that also contains historical data from literature and museum collections. All priority-area maps
of habitat, land cover, elevation, infrastructure, tourist facilities, zoning, physical planning, etc., are also
stored in a custom-designed GIS. An initial pilot database was completed for Risnjak NP and the software
was installed in all five parks. The parks can access, query, and update their area information through a
custom-designed database and GIS. The Karst Ecosystem Biodiversity database satisfies requirements
in park management planning, and complies with information systems under development at the
Directorate of Nature Protection of the Ministry of Culture, and of State Institute of Nature Protection for
EU harmonization tasks.

The GIS includes maps of karst habitat in scale 1:25,000 and land cover maps in scale 1:25,000 for
five protected areas. All species and subspecies of fauna and flora are included (with coordinates) in the
GIS database. The best possible information on the position was recorded from literature data. Inventory
data collected through the project included exact GPS readings for each field record. The GIS database
allows records of the location of each species to be plotted. All analyses carried out were distributed on
DVD during GIS training. In defining the GIS system, all relevant GIS systems were analyzed and
discussed at a GIS workshop held in Zagreb in January 2004. Land cover maps (1:100000 scale) were
prepared in cooperation with another project (2002-2005-CORINE Land Cover Database for Republic of
Croatia). The GIS system has been set up, installed in the Ministry, and loaded with all data. System
access is available from Parks through the internet. The project procured hardware and software for
the GIS/IT system.

Training. Under the project, several training programs were developed and conducted including: using
GIS; biodiversity monitoring; conducting state-of-the-art interpretation and education related to
biodiversity conservation; and ranger training that included park services for visitors, assistance in
park monitoring activities, cooperation with local communities, and establishing volunteer programs. A
workshop was designed and conducted in each of the five parks to discuss the need for a "people and
parks" program, which was subsequently prepared for each of the five protected areas. A complementary
training program including NGOs, communities, county and park staff on the theme of "people and
parks," was developed according to the needs analysis and implemented through a mutually agreed
training plan. USAID through the US National Park Service collaborated effectively on park staff training
programs both before and during project implementation.

Biodiversity Inventory and Mapping. The main objective was to compile and assess existing and new
biodiversity data in the KEC region in reference to: disappearance of endemic taxa, taxa already under
threat, habitat degradation and loss of diversity, links among endemic and endangered species and
habitats in the KEC area, loss of individual climatic zone and zonal forms of vegetation, and as yet
undiscovered species and taxa in the underground karst habitats. A systematic inventory of flora was
carried out in the five KEC priority areas and in the two areas of Kupa Valley and Ogulin. For the
inventory of fauna, several taxonomic groups were selected and their distribution is being studied: some
groups of mammals, insects, birds, cave fauna. A digital map (1:25,000) of flora and fauna and karst



                                                     18

habitats was developed for the KEC database. A methodology for the Biodiversity Inventory and
Mapping was established in accordance with domestic and international best practice, and is being used in
other parks across Croatia. Some recommendations for the revision/update of Red Book on the
threatened status of butterfly species resulted from the inventory investigation.

Inventory and Mapping of Caves and Subterranean Biodiversity. Since speleological objects represent
an important feature in the karst area, the project also carried out an inventory of all known
speleological objects and underground fauna and flora inventory on specific objects. A methodology was
developed for cave inventory, in accordance with domestic and international best practice, and a database
on speleological objects of the KEC priority areas was established. The Manita Pec cave management
plan was developed through participatory workshops, and considered a model for at least nine other caves
that are tourist attractions in Croatia. Two workshops were organized to propose the methodology and
involve the speleological community in KEC project activities.

Management Plan Guidelines and Preparation. Five protected area management plans within the KEC
(NP Risnjak, NP Plitvice Lakes, NP Northern Velebit, NP Paklenica and Nature Park Velebit) region
were finalized. All park directors underlined the important role that public consultative planning
processes played in the preparation and development of the park Management Plans (MPs). All MPs were
first approved by their respective park management boards. Final approval was granted by the Ministry of
Culture and the State Institute for Nature Protection in November 2007. KEC MPs were the first to be
approved in Croatia, and the guidelines developed and lessons learned will be used to develop MPs for
the remaining 14 protected areas and all future protected areas. The target year to develop and adopt MPs
for all protected areas is 2010. Park management plans identify the vision and overall objectives of the
protected area and lay out a general management approach that covers a decade and provides for updating
after five years if required, which will be 2012. The MPs provide a preparation and implementation
framework for action plans and annual operating plans. Action plans lay out steps, timeframes, and
budgets for specific objectives such as constructing a visitor center, improving forest management,
improving visitor management and outreach, etc. During the project, two action plans per park were
prepared and additional action plans identified in management plans that will be prepared over the next
five years.

Guidelines for management planning were developed in parallel with the pilot management plan for
Risnjak NP and the four other KEC parks, based on existing and approved methodologies adopted at
international level (International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), World Wildlife Federation
(WWF), Eurosite and Europarc). The methodology was adapted to Croatia circumstances and legal basis
for nature conservation.




                                                     19

The scheme of management planning process followed in the KEC Project.

Monitoring Migration Corridors and Population Dynamics of Large Carnivores. The objective was to
ensure conservation of large carnivores and to strengthen capacity for national and local-level
conservation and management of large carnivores. During the project the distribution and population
dynamics of large mammals were monitored in cooperation with the veterinary institute using modern
equipment and instruments procured under the project such as global system for mobile communication
(GSM) collars for bears and lynx, infrared sensors on highway green bridges, and molecular analysis of
organic material. Monitoring results were used to prepare park management plans, provide inputs on
hunting policies, and inputs for Croatia's preparations to implement the EU Habitat's Directive. Bear and
lynx population monitoring programs include the following: (i) population sizes and distribution of
large herbivores (lynx and bear); (ii) migration corridors in the KEC area; (iii) impact assessments on
populations; and (iv) guidelines on public use and facility development for agricultural and forestry
management practices. Monitoring results will be used to maintain or restore the corridors appropriately.
Genetic analysis of bear droppings was conducted to estimate population size. The monitoring plan
includes additional recommendations for follow-up activities to be carried out in the five protected areas.



                                                     20

A monitoring plan on the green bridges along the highway Rijeka-Zagreb and Split-Zagreb has been
set up and carried out during the project lifespan, and after project completion the highway company has
agreed to cover monitoring costs. Other large carnivore studies conducted in parallel with KEC (the
Croatian brown bear management plan, wolf telemetry tracking) have combined efforts and submitted
their data for inclusion in the KEC-developed comprehensive database.

Assessment of Ogulin and Kupa River for Protected Area Status. The main objective was to compare
the areas of Ogulin and Kupa River Valley with other priority areas and identify species and habitats that
need particular attention (threatened and endemic). Two reports were prepared (for Ogulin and for the
Kupa River) on availability and integration of inventory data, and the plan for future activities, including
recommendations to declare these sites protected areas. Under Croatia's Nature Protection legislation
(introduced during the project), the KEC studies fulfill the first requirement (scientific analysis) for
declaring sites a protected area. Subsequent steps include public consultations on a draft a legislative act
for protection (inter alia: the level of protection and other institutional arrangements), and legal enactment.
Croatia is actively expanding its territory under protection so several other sites (Neretva Delta and
Mreznica River) are more advanced in the second stage and are the primary government focus in the
immediate term. Therefore it could be several years before funding is secured and a decision is taken on
the Ogulin and Kupa River Valley sites.

Research and Monitoring in Plitvice Lakes. The key objective was to develop a comprehensive
biodiversity research and monitoring program for Plitvicka jezera NP to protect park biodiversity. An
integrated monitoring program was prepared that included biodiversity, geology, hydrology, data from
groundwater wells, and water quality analyses (existing Plitvicka jezera NP data on water quality
monitoring included). This was added as a component of the GIS database, and used to make
recommendations on future research activities.

Designate Network of Highly Significant Biodiversity Hotspots. The objective was to manage protected
areas according to requirements for biodiversity hotspot conservation. Hotspots were proposed as
components of the five park management plans in the KEC area. Each management plan describes
resources with details on areas of particular interest, and zoning that takes these special sites into
consideration. The management plans aim to ensure adequate conservation of these sites and
recommendations for changes in physical plans were made.

Component 2. Establishing Community Based Mechanisms for Biodiversity, Conservation, and
Sustainable Resource Use in the Karst Region

Analysis of Tourism Potential and Capacity Development. One objective was to assess visitors'
perceptions of tourism, tourism potential in KEC parks, areas of interest, and develop two pilot tourism
programs. The results were used to compile a database on tourism in the KEC area, to support the
management planning process, and provide a baseline for monitoring tourist satisfaction in the parks. A
Report on "Assessment of the tourism pattern and recommendations for the sustainable tourism
development in the KEC Area" was completed and includes: assessment of tourism marketing potential of
protected areas; review of tour operators' perceptions; assessment of visitor attitudes, assessment of
tourism sector comparables, and identification of activities with potential for economic growth and
development. Recommendations focused on ways to better involve the local community in tourism work,
including training local tour guides on park-specific knowledge. Two sustainable tourism promotional
programs "The wild large carnivores of Risnjak NP" and "The Velebit Park and the mills of the Gacka
valley" were defined. Two workshops (introduction and final workshops on tourism potential) and six
capacity-development training workshops were held in the KEC project region.




                                                       21

Transboundary Cooperation. The objective was to promote transboundary cooperation in biodiversity
conservation through linkages between local communities and parks on either side of the borders,
achieved through two international transboundary workshops focused on developing a trilateral
international karst trail among partners from Italy, Slovenia, and Croatia and cooperation between Bosnia
and Herzegovina and Croatia in the Plitvice Park surrounding area. Discussions resulted in a project
outline agreement for the trail, and this established relations and stimulated follow-up meetings to
continue cooperation. The KEC established efficient working relations among the partners, who are now
pursuing funding for the trail. The Austria-Croatia chamber of commerce has expressed interest in
funding but the future of the international karst trail now depends on the institutional project partners.

Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants (CRRG). The project included a US$0.57 million CRRG
Program to provide grants to local people for projects that demonstrate linkages among sustainable use of
natural resources, economic development, and biodiversity conservation. The program, launched in April
2003, financed 23 projects including beekeeping, sheep and goat raising, organic farming, ecotourism,
grassland management, and restoration of cultural heritage sites; there were relatively few capacity-
building and environmental education projects. A US$200,000 Norwegian grant financed seven
additional projects. Six out of 23 GEF-supported projects were eventually cancelled, resulting in 24
successful grants. Most cancellations resulted from beneficiaries failing to apply the procurement rules set
out in the Operations Manual/agreements. Several interventions for corrective action were taken, and
some grant funds were misused but most funds were recovered. Several types of CRRG grants are
described in detail below:
    ·     Protection of Biodiversity through Traditional Management of Meadows. Seven CRRG
          beneficiaries were small farmers in remote villages who used their resources to revive
          traditional land use (e.g., the Matak farm), which were supported due to high anticipated
          synergy between rural development and biodiversity protection. Without cattle grazing and
          regular mowing, large areas gradually returned to thickets or forest. Floristically, grassland is
          several times richer in biodiversity than forest. Project funds purchased traditional equipment,
          cattle, sheep, and goats for the farmers. Although goat breeding is forbidden in some areas
          under the Law on Forests, an agreement was reached between ministries to allow this to be
          piloted under controlled conditions in the area of Nature Park Velebit through a CRRG project.
    ·     Protection of Local Breeds of Cattle, Sheep, and Horses. To maintain open grassland
          ecosystems and their biodiversity, proposals were prepared for the CRRG to protect local
          breeds. A background report was produced to facilitate the application process, and several
          small grants were executed. One project supported conservation of the endangered "busa" cow.
          Agricultural experts estimated that only about 30 of this breed remained in the project region.
    ·     Ecological Value of Forest Honey Production. The ecological importance of the project on
          honey production is the link between forest pastures in production of high quality honey and
          conservation of coniferous forests of the high karst. Old stands of fir (Abies alba) in particular
          need protection as they have been degraded by an increasing rate in Gorski kotar during the last
          decade. Honey `medun' is rare elsewhere in Central Europe, highlighting the importance of
          conservation for the KEC region. The anticipated cooperation with the Risnjak NP is seen as an
          important value added since it contributes to biodiversity conservation; five farmers were
          financed for beekeeping.
    ·     Tourism and Local Communities. CRRG helped strengthen the role of the parks for regional
          development, especially for bordering communities. The project supported local communities
          in managing and even replacing some tourism activities, including ecological and rural tourism.
    ·     Management Plans for the Parks and CRRG. Under the CRRG program, KEC parks became a
          communications nexus between local people and the KEC project.
    ·     Ecological Agriculture and Conservation of Biodiversity. The KEC project supports ex situ
          conservation of biodiversity by supporting cultivation of medicinal and nourishing herbs on



                                                       22

           small farms to promote income generation and prevent unsustainable herb collecting from
           protected areas.
    ·      CRRG Education Projects. CRRG education projects were linked with the wider project
           training program, which was endorsed by the Ministry. The CRRG program also supported the
           railway school educational program, the distance learning program, and websites for
           biodiversity.
    ·      Cultural Heritage. Cultural heritage projects were selected based on elaborated ideas of
           integrating cultural and nature protection by reviving and rehabilitating small mills, stone
           rainwater tanks or creating an ethnographic museum to educate about conservation and promote
           tourism. Projects that link biodiversity conservation in a protected area contribute to preserving
           traditional handicrafts and cultural heritage, and educating local people and visitors.

Expanded Infrastructure and Equipment for Parks. The project supported construction of the new
Velebit Nature Park Headquarters (HQ) Building and Visitor/Information Centre in Gospic
(US$703,000 from the Grant), which was completed in November 2007. County and city officials
highlighted the importance of the HQ visitors' centre to Licko-Senjska county. It not only demonstrates
the links among economic development, tourism, and nature conservation but also has substantial
potential for increasing economic opportunities, especially among young people in this war-torn, highly
depopulated region of Croatia; local people view it as a means to attract more nature tourists. Licko-
Senjska county developed a major partnership with the Velebit Nature Park management through the
KEC Project. The county donated the land for the new building and financed demolition of military
barracks at the construction site.

An education center on birds of prey and repopulation of white vultures in the canyon of Mala Paklenica
was completed at National Park Paklenica in mid-June, 2007 and opened officially in mid-November,
2007 (US$172,710 from the Grant). The project helped Risnjak National Park to construct a pedestrian
bridge over the Kupa River to enable easy hiking/park visitor access to the river source, a karstic
educational site, a hiking shelter for visitors and rangers, and to adapt the park conference room for
multimedia (US$225,000 equivalent from the Grant).




.




KEC Project (US$35,000 equivalent from the grant) helped National Park Northern Velebit finance
rehabilitation of a macadam road from the park entrance of Babina Sica to the Zavizan meteorological


                                                      23

station which as combined with park and county funds to finance further road extensions. Including this
park in the project also promoted the use of additional government funds to expand the park
headquarter/visitor center.

Park equipment provided through the project was selected by park staff through a prioritization process
and included monitoring and inventory devices (monitoring equipment for bats and traps, large mammal
monitoring, digital cameras, global positioning system (GPS) devices for tracking), computer servers,
PC's and software, audio-visual and miscellaneous items; laboratory equipment for researching and
monitoring park biodiversity to serve external scientists and students, a PCR Thermal Cycler; diving
equipment, field vehicles (4x4), snowmobile, furniture for park HQ building, audio-visual equipment for
multimedia room, and a meteorological station (near the Risnjak Park management building). The project
supported design and printing of park promotional materials, and publication of park management plans.

Component 3. Project Management and Monitoring
Design and Implement a Monitoring Program. A biodiversity monitoring program for KEC priority
areas was developed to improve basic information for biodiversity conservation. Inventory and mapping
results facilitated population viability analysis; distribution of species, and distribution of habitats.
Monitoring equipment procured by KEC PIU was used for this work. The MEPPP established the
Institute for Nature Protection that is responsible for biodiversity monitoring on the national, regional
(county), and local levels. The only existing lab for monitoring in the KEC region is in Plitvice NP. The
monitoring program provided feedback to help measure KEC project effectiveness; and served as a model
for a national program, taking into account the financial and human resources of the MEPP.

Project Oversight. The MEPP as Government Implementing Agency had overall responsibility for project
implementation during September 2002-March 2004. At the beginning of project implementation, a
national-level project implementation unit (PIU) was established in the MEPP Division of General
Environmental Policy. The PIU built on the KEC project preparation implementation unit and was
responsible for all project procurement, disbursement, financial management, and oversight of civil works,
consultants, seminars, and training. The Croatian Government Division of General Environmental
Policy--in particular nature protection division--was transferred from the MEPP to the Ministry of
Culture, Directorate for Nature Protection. Therefore, from April 2004 to project closing, the Ministry of
Culture (MoC) assumed overall responsibility for KEC project implementation. The PIU was responsible
for coordinating with other donors regarding implementation and project co-financing, and for all
reporting requirements to the Bank and the Government of Croatia. The PIU was staffed by a project
director, procurement and financial specialists, program coordinator, and program officer, funded under
the project.4 The project also established a local PIU office in Gospic, the capital of Licko-Senjska county,
which enabled local-level inter-sectoral coordination and planning. Since county officials identified
Gospic as the best location for a proposed regional development pole, locating a PIU there enabled
coordination of county development plans. The local PIU handled day-to-day project implementation and
local-level coordination, and was staffed by a project field coordinator and project assistant.

The national PIU was assisted by an inter-agency Project Steering Committee established prior to Board
presentation. The Steering Committee comprised Ministry and institutional representatives, including
Ministry of Environmental Protection and Physical Planning, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, State



4Around mid-term, the PIU Director (a former Ministry staff) was rehired as government staff (no longer paid
through the project) while retaining the project Director position, effectively mainstreaming the project into ongoing
government programs.




                                                          24

Department for Water, and the directors of the protected areas under the project. The Steering Committee
was responsible for providing project oversight advice, inter-ministerial coordination, and assistance to
resolve issues associated with project implementation. The Minister of Culture (previously the Minister of
Environmental Protection and Physical Planning) became a chairman of this committee. Local advisory
groups from each of the three main project regions (Plitvice, Paklenica, and Velebit), comprising
representatives of key stakeholder groups, assisted the National PIU and Steering Committee.

The PIU KEC lacked accounting software to record data on project expenditures so the procurement and
financial management specialist used Excel spreadsheets for each kind of data reporting, which was
cumbersome and time-consuming. Despite some inherent risks with this system, it was effective, however
it is recommended in hindsight to invest in project accounting software.




                                                    25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Financial and economic efficiency were evaluated on the degree to which non-GEF funds could be
leveraged to achieve project objectives, which is a basic assumption of GEF Incremental Cost Analysis.
An estimated US$3.3 million in non-GEF contributions anticipated at appraisal was exceeded by more
than US$500,000 after accounting for a falling US$ exchange rate. A total estimated US$1,744,051 in
additional local-level contributions was realized, with the highest contributions from the National Park
Northern Velebit (US$960,000), and additional investments by small grant beneficiaries to complete their
projects as planned (US$380,000).

These estimates are conservative because they do not account for costs of many "spin-off" projects
enabled through the KEC investments (e.g., ongoing large mammal monitoring), or for recurrent costs at
parks, which increased due to project investments. All KEC activities are either continuing with park
budget support or have been completed and established demonstrations for replication to other parks that
have additional funds. Evidently the introduction of management plans and budgeted actions plans for
parks is increasing central budget funding for nature protection. Examples of ongoing work include the
veterinary faculty research and tracking of large mammals (bear and linx) using state-of-the-art radio
collar equipment supplied by KEC; biodiversity inventory work and management planning processes are
already replicated to other parks and will continue to be rolled out to more parks and Natura 2000 sites
across Croatia (EU funds); and models of park visitor centers financed and demonstrated through KEC,
which will be extended to other parks in the future (embedded in new Nature Protection legislation).

GEF funds were leveraged with other funds during both implementation and project follow-up. Examples
of leveraging beyond planned central ministry funds include supplements from individual park budgets;
land donations; and construction works contributions from municipalities that complement KEC-financed
works. During the project, Norway provided bilateral donor support to extend the CRRG program, and
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) supported a lessons learned study tour
for park managers to visit the National Parks system (complementing a KEC-financed study tour).

KEC project results have generated significant interest and additional financing from other donors such as
the EU, Norway, Austria, and France, to continue project investments. Two Norwegian Bilateral Project
Cooperation Programs (Protected Areas Management Systems Project 2006-08) and an EU grant program
continue to help the Ministry of Culture and the State Institute for Nature Protection expand the KEC
project GIS to county-level structures and other National Parks. A bilateral program with France
established exchange relations between two French regional parks and Croatia to support county-level
management plans based on the KEC management plan model. The Austrian-Croatian Chamber of
Commerce has initiated cooperation to follow up on the KEC-supported proposal for an international
karst hiking trail.

The following table describes project activity financing--funding sources and local beneficiaries.




                                                    26

                                                      Expenditures per National Park
                                                         Period: 12 / 2002 - 02 / 2008

                                                           Funds Spent - Total Directly
                                                              Related to KEC Project
                                                                                                 Additional Investment from     Total
                                                           IBRD GEF Trust Fund (TF)              Local County Authorities to
               Public Company Name                                     050539                   Support Related KEC Project    4 = 2 + 3
                                                               Norwegian TF 053242                        Activities
                                                              STATE BUDGET/MoC                              US$                  US$
                                                                        US$
                           1                                              2                                   3                   4
 National Park Paklenica                                                           1,198,909                          221,503   1,420,412
 Park of Nature Velebit                                                            1,922,026                          185,646   2,107,672
 National Park Plitvice Lakes                                                        818,064                                      818,064
 National Park Northern Velebit                                                    1,072,869                          956,902   2,029,771
 National Park Risnjak                                                             1,213,448                                    1,213,448
 Gacka River Walley                                                                    49,861                                      49,861
 Beneficiaries - subgrants (CRRG)                                                    571,561                     380.000 ***     950,019
 Ministry of Culture (equipment)                                                     220,480                                      220,480
 TOTAL                                                                             7,067,218                        1,744,051   8,811,269

     Grant                                                                         5,169,545
     Borrower (MoC)                                                                1,897,673

 Borrower Funds Spent 2002-2007                                                    1,897,673                        1,364,051   3,261,724
 PAD - Borrower funds planned for five years =
 3.298.260 US$ / ratio spent vs. planned = 98,89 %

*** /Additional investment by small grants beneficiaries, to complete the project as planned = approx. US$380.000




                                                                    26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members

            Names                        Title                 Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Rita Klees               Senior Environmental Specialist      ECSSD Task Team Leader,
                                                                    Environment
John Fraser Stuart       Senior Biodiversity Specialist       ECSSD Biodiversity
Tijen Arin               Natural Resources Economist          ECSSD Economic Analysis

Karin Shepardson         Senior Environmental Economist,            GEF Advisory
                         GEF Regional Coordinator             ECSSD Support
Ana Marija Frankic       Consultant, Ecologist                ECSSD Ecology
Gonzalo Castro           Senior Biodiversity Specialist        ENV  Biodiversity
Valencia Copeland        Program Assistant                    ECSSD Administrative/Costs
Jan Post                 Principal Biodiversity Specialist     ENV  Biodiversity
Anthony Whitten          Senior Biodiversity Specialist        ENV  Biodiversity

Jane Holt                Sector Leader, ENV                   ECSSD Management
                                                                    Review

Vladimir Skendrovic      Operations Officer                   ECAHR Local Country
                                                                    Operations

Douglas Morris           Park Manager, US Park Service        USNPS Park Management
                                                                    and Training

Marjory Anne Bromhead    Sector Leader, NRM                   ECSSD Management
                                                                    Review
Jose Martinez            Procurement Specialist               ECSPF Procurement
Gurdev Singh             Consultant, Procurement              ECSSD Procurement

Hiran Heart              Financial Management Specialist      ECSPF Financial
                                                                    Management
Janis Bernstein          Sr. Environmental Specialist, Social ECSSD Social Assessment
Martin Schneider-Jacoby  Consultant, Biologist                ECSSD Biologist

Voltaire Andres          Consultant                           HRLDC Leadership
                                                                    Development Center
Rimma Dankova            Consultant                           ECSSD Economist

Supervision/ICR
Karin Shepardson         Sr. Operations Officer               ECSSD TTL, Environment

Ljiljana Boranic         Team Assistant                       ECCHR Administrative
                                                                    Support
Rita Klees               Senior Environmental Specialist      ECSSD TTL, Environment
Vera Dugandzic           Operations Analyst                   ECSSD Bank Operations
Vanja Frajtic            Communications Asst.                 ECCHR Communications

Lamija Hadzagic          Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS Financial
                                                                    Management
Agnes I. Kiss            Lead Biodiversity Specialist         ECSSD Biodiversity
Douglas K. Morris        Consultant                           ECSSD National Parks



                                          27

Martin Schneider-Jacoby     Consultant                         ECSSD Biodiversity
Antonia G. Viyachka         Procurement Spec.                  ECSPS Procurement

Christopher Cosslet         Biodiversity Consultant            ECSSD   Biodiversity/Small
                                                                       Grants Evaluation
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                        No. of staff weeks     US$ thousands (including
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                    13.83
  FY97                                                                     0.00
  FY98                                                                     1.80
  FY99                                                                    66.54
  FY00                                                                   109.40
  FY01                                                                    80.82
                            Total                                        272.39
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                     8.94
  FY02                                                                    79.24
  FY03                                                                    85.27
  FY04                                                                    79.66
  FY05                                                                    64.72
  FY06                                                                    37.17
  FY07                                                                    53.22
                            Total                                        408.22




                                            28

Annex 5. Methodology for CRRG Impact Assessment, Including Beneficiary
             Survey

The Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program (CRRGP) was reviewed at the end of
the project in an impact assessment to provide recommendations for future activities in
biodiversity protection, protected area management, and local/regional sustainable development.
Key observations and lessons learned from this review are presented in Section 6 and in more
detail in this annex. The objective was to evaluate the quality of the design and implementation of
the CRRGP (clarity, relevance, effectiveness, transparency, sustainability, replicability) and
impacts on biodiversity, sustainable natural resource use, local economic activities, and local
attitudes towards Protected Areas and Biodiversity. The evaluation focused on the following four
elements:
     · Process and results of sub-projects submission and selection
     · Impacts on community attitudes and behavior (natural resource use practices)
     · Impacts on alternative income generation
     · Lessons learned

The review considered all 30 CRRG grants, provided a more in-depth analysis of ten grants
(visited by the consultant team) and presented case studies for two of the ten. The data gathering
methods and analysis techniques used in the evaluation were desk study, field visits, and
interviews. Consultants carried out in-depth analysis on all reports and decisions of the local
advisory board (LAB) meetings, press clippings and reports on the project grant selection process,
work reports of KEC/PIU and project-related press clippings. Based on the above reviews, the
local consultants and the PIU jointly selected ten projects for in-depth analysis based on the
following criteria: (i) achieved results; (ii) covered almost all KEC project geographic area; and
(iii) covered all three grant categories: small business and infrastructure investments, capacity
building and business management, and environmental education and public awareness.

Field visits were undertaken to ten beneficiaries (projects), with a total of seventeen field visits
and interviews conducted with beneficiaries, non-beneficiaries, members LAB, representatives of
local and county government, and protected areas. Semi-structured interviews covered key areas
of interest for project evaluation. However, interviews also included several follow-up questions,
which varied according to the initial responses. Although initial plans were to interview only
beneficiaries of the ten selected CRRG grants, short questionnaires were also prepared for non-
beneficiaries in the project area to draw on a wider pool of information on CRRG program results
and to compare responses from non-beneficiaries and beneficiaries.

Out of 30 projects, six grants were cancelled due to failure to understand or respect procurement
guidelines and one grant was cancelled due to a lack of counterpart funds. In the misprocurement
cases, funds were returned in all but one case, which was pending legal action in municipal court
at project close.

In the assessment of failures and sustainability of projects financed through the CRRG program,
special attention was given to qualitative perceptions of interviewees regarding lessons learned in
the last five years, and to recommendations for additional grants related to local development
based on sustainable use of natural resources. This process evaluated attitudes and
recommendations related to future grant programs.

Key messages taken from the CRRG impact assessment review include the following:



                                                  29

Be clear from the beginning: Avoid unrealistic expectations among potential beneficiaries
concerning potential availability of financial resources for individual projects being prepared.

Planning is crucial: Detailed planning makes it easier to implement a small project and avoid
major changes in contract deliverables, which are generally not allowed. Planning requires
experience on both sides, so knowledge was gained from this experience.

Keep application process as simple as possible: The application procedure was too complicated
for most potential beneficiaries to complete without hands-on assistance, despite the excellent
organization of educational activities by the KEC/PIU.

Easier to support individuals than associations: The PIU attempted to promote establishment
of associations, and encouraged associations to send in proposals (beekeeping association,
agricultural co-operative, tourism association, eco-agriculture). However, most successful
projects were managed by individuals.

Role of local advisory board (LAB) could have been broader: For future grant programs, it is
recommended that LABs have a more active role in supervision of grant activities--not just
approval.

Ensure that support is closely tied to park management plans: Benefits to protected areas
from sustainable rural development can be optimized when designed in concert with park
management plans. Adoption of park management plans by karst area parks provides an excellent
opportunity to do this. Most CRRG grants were implemented prior to completion of these plans
so missed the opportunity to be placed within their more strategic context (e.g. harmonize
outcomes and targets).

Local PIU is critical to success: All projects of this type need to maintain an office in the project
area and people/experts working in the field to help applicants with project preparation and share
know-how on applying project funds.

Ecotourism and ecological production are among the most promising economic activities for
the region.

Lack of capital for investment is a major and ongoing constraint for entrepreneurs in the
region.

Separate funding for income-generation projects from education and capacity­building
projects: During project preparation, the potential areas for small grants were thoroughly
evaluated. The importance of capacity building and education was less appreciated by potential
beneficiaries than small business and infrastructure investments. Potential beneficiaries were
more interested in short-term returns rather than long-term development, which is understandable
given the difficult socio-economic situation in the project area. However, capacity building
remains an important need and future programs should ensure that adequate capacity-building
opportunities are available, particularly for entrepreneurs in target sectors. This could be achieved
by allocating dedicated funds for capacity building rather than having a single fund for education,
capacity building, and income generation

Continue supporting sustainable rural development in the context of parks management:
Based on knowledge and skills gained during the CRRG Program, the overall recommendation is


                                                  30

to find further avenues of support for rural revitalization and nature conservation projects. In
terms of the level of economic development in the KEC project areas, additional support for local
development incentives is needed to achieve rural revitalization and biodiversity conservation.
The CRRG demonstrated positive results that provide a model for further activities.

Adopt an inter-sectoral approach: The Croatian Government, relevant Ministries, and regional
and local self-government are encouraged to consolidate efforts to form a common inter-
ministerial framework that supports rural revitalization, eco-tourism, small-scale entrepreneurship
and biodiversity conservation in areas surrounding protected areas. The Ministry of Culture, the
Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and the Ministry of Environmental
Protection, Physical Planning and Construction and the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and
Development can cooperate to jointly address this objective and support related activities
incorporating biodiversity conservation. Regional and local self-government should also offer
further support, in coordination with national bodies.

Examine financing options: In addition to grant support, loan support for biodiversity-friendly
businesses could be considered. For example, a micro-credit scheme with low-interest loans,
favorable grace periods, etc., could help finance projects that contribute to biodiversity
conservation and rural revitalization.

Build on existing project ideas: The CRRG Program encouraged local people to prepare project
applications, and initiated good entrepreneurial ideas. However, many good projects were not
funded and these applications should be retained in a database to be considered when new sources
of funding become available. For example, all project proposals prepared in Primorsko-Goranska
county for the CRRG Program were included in the list of projects within the scope of the EU
Regional Operational Programs. Such lists should be used and built upon because they provide
incentives for local rural development.

Build on existing capacities: The CRRG grants contributed to knowledge and skills
development in project preparation, doing business, and conservation and protection of nature and
biodiversity, all of which should be the basis for further activities in the region.

Additional financial support should be set aside for training on project preparation: The
need for assistance in preparing projects proposals is obvious. The KEC project has shown that
people would welcome such initiatives.

Continue monitoring impacts on income, attitudes, behaviors and biodiversity: Review
findings captured emerging information and as the expression goes, `only time will tell' about the
sustainability of impacts. Direct impacts measured within the project timeframe were relatively
small and their ultimate impact will depend on future uptake/dissemination by others. Efforts
should be made to continue monitoring the CRRG Program and projects arising from further
support. Longer-term monitoring, with leadership and support from nearby parks, would address
remaining questions about sustainability of income gains and measurable impacts on biodiversity.




                                                 31

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Throughout project preparation and implementation many stakeholder workshops and meetings
were held. The final KEC workshop, held in December 2007, in Gospic showcased promotional
materials that the KEC parks have produced such as leaflets, brochures, outdoor informational
boards, trail interpretation guides, and park nature guide books to promote the unique
characteristics of the karst area. The World Bank communications group helped finance the
production of a short documentary "Guardians of the Karst" highlighting KEC project results
using Dobar dan komunikacije d.o.o. production company. The documentary was shown during
the final workshop in Gospic (see supporting documents list) that brought together stakeholders
that had regular contact with the project throughout the five-year implementation period.
However, stakeholders and participants reported great satisfaction upon viewing the cumulative
results of the project (the sum was greater than individual perspectives on certain parts) and
underscored the extent to which activities initiated by KEC were being sustained through ongoing
local community and nature protection work in Croatia.

Excerpt from Closing Workshop Press Coverage:
NOVI LIST, TUESDAY 11 DECEMBER 2007 (English translation)
TWO DAY WORKSHOP IN GOSPI AS PROJECT TO CONSERVE THE KARST
ECOSYSTEM COMES TO AN END - Small grants hasten development of entrepreneurship
in Lika, Milan Tomasevi, Gospi - After five years, the "Karst Ecosystem Conservation"
project is nearing its end. The project is planned to end on 31 December, so Gospi hosted a final
workshop on the results of the KEC project, organized by the Ministry of Culture of the RoC.

Grants to the Local Population. "This is definitely the largest project in the field of
environmental protection in the Republic of Croatia," the assistant minister in the Minister of
Culture, Zoran Siki said. The project will be the backbone and model on which a system of
natural conservation will be built in Croatia for which we have adopted a dynamic plan of action
until 2010", said Siki. "The project is extremely important and valuable, not only for the Lika-
Senj County, but also the entire area it covered. The small grants given have been an impulse for
the development of enterprise in this area, primarily bee-keeping, and raising livestock and
medicinal herbs. This is in line with our long-term strategic development goals, but it is also the
foundation of future projects," said the deputy prefect of the Lika-Senj county, Drazen Perani.




                                                 32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Ministry of Culture Comments, June, 2008:

The KEC project has successfully implemented selected Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan of
Croatia who defined priority actions for karst ecosystems notably by preserving the biological
and landscape diversity of the karst region, improving biodiversity inventory and monitoring,
raising awareness and participating in regional efforts to manage biodiversity through
transboundary initiatives.

The project has had a wider national impact outside the KEC area and this is seen as the added
value of the project.

The project raised capacities of parks for systematic inventory and monitoring of ecosystems and
species which contributes to the build national inventory and monitoring capacities. Project
results on this field will build Croatian authorities' ability to accurately identify patterns and
trends in biodiversity and the magnitude of threats to biodiversity. This also facilitates national
ability to ensure appropriate conservation measures of protected areas. The project has used
biodiversity conservation internationally recognised best practices, standards and tools that are
now available for application elsewhere in Croatia.

The project has high potential of replicability of its results to the remaining 14 national and nature
park of Croatia. First management plans of KEC project were used as a standardize model for
development of management plans in Croatia, in respect to the format as well as in methodology
of its development with broad participation of all stakeholders. The project developed
management planning guidelines which are used by other parks planning activities.

KEC parks NP Risnjak, NP Northern Velebit, NP Plitvice Lakes, NP Paklenica and PN Velebit
were in November 2007 designated by the Government (Narodne novine, 109/07) as a sites of
the national ecological network, to be in future proposed for EU ecological network NATURA
2000. As it is known NATURA 2000 SITES are designated to fulfill obligations of EU countries
under the Habitat Directive on conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora.
Habitat Directive requires development of management plans and measures for NATURA 2000
sites. With development and adoption of management plans for KEC parks prepared on the
international standards, Croatia as a candidate country has preliminary fulfilled obligation coming
out of the Habitat Directive. Additionally, one of the strategic goals of the Ministry of Culture, as
responsible governmental authority for nature conservation, is that other national and nature parks
of Croatia (14) use KEC model of management plans adopted to their circumstances, to develop
their own management plans by 2010.

Monitoring system for biodiversity, information system and data base model for KEC parks could
be and are replicable for the other 14 parks in Croatia.

Small grants Programme has been successful and experiences gained through the Programme can
be used in the region and on national level.

National Workshops organized to share experience and results of the project were active element
of introducing new practice of exchange of experience and communication on nature
conservation issues in Croatia, which are often used for other projects.
Practice of improved park's communication with local people gained very positive reflects in
management planning works and could be used as a model for other 14 parks in Croatia.



                                                 33

Among lessons learned we can mention that the project success depends on
- the best project planning practice, well defined scope and works schedule (procurement plan),
- Excellent communication between implementing agency(ies) and WB project teams,
- support to the PIU from the implementing agency, which was excellent by the Ministry of
Culture,
-stakeholders and local people are willing to cooperate if positively approached by the parks staff,
-sharing of experience between people involved in the project contributes to the social value of
the project,
- the project contribute to the income of local people and to local economies by well planned and
economically justified project activities.

Among the project results we can also mention:
-the Ministry, parks, beneficiaries and stakeholder learned much on project preparation and
implementation methodology both from project preparation and implementation,
-attitudes and behavior of people involved in the project directly influenced natural resource use
and business practices,
-building and establishment of visitor's centres and parks infrastructure at five sites will increase
capacities of parks to present natural values as well as to increase funding of their activities,
-equipment purchased for biodiversity research and monitoring for five KEC parks as well as
procured servers, PC's, general and GIS software ensure that the technical capacity of the Park
Management offices is sufficient to properly protect the parks resources,
-audiovisual equipment procured for four parks will enable holding presentations and workshops
within the Parks premises and is aimed to attract more visitors,
-the project has developed a dedicated environmental information system for the storage and
analysis of data arising from standardised biodiversity inventory and monitoring practices that
will have an immediate application for a national systematic review of biodiversity patterns and
threats as a precursor to designing a national system plan for protected areas,
-capacity building of park staff and other stakeholders in the preparation of the management plans
and related aspects; a number of training programmes at different institutional levels: in
interpretation, monitoring, using GIS system,
- high local community participation and stakeholder involvement from an early stage in the
project provides support and sustainability of the agreed objectives and actions of the
management plans prepared in the project,
-the Ministry, parks and local governments demonstrated ownership by investing additional funds
in supporting or continuing the project work, like in a case of building the HQ of Nature park
Velebit,
-the project was deeply included in daily work of institutions mentioned which contributed to
overall project success.

The World Bank role was highly appreciated by the Client in the project preparation and
implementation period due to the strong guidance of the Bank team as well as Bank's flexibility
in adjusting project activities to strategic needs of the Ministry. The WB role was crucial for the
project success.

Due to the very good project results and cooperation with the World Bank, Ministry of Culture
requested the World Bank to continue joint work on nature conservation in Croatia and to plan a
future investment for nature conservation. Croatia has requested the IBRD loan for nature
protection to expand KEC project to other protected areas.

Croatia Ministry of Finance Comments June, 2008



                                                 34

Herewith, I would like to confirm that we do not have any comment to the subject draft ICR. We
do hope to have more successful projects as this one. This is certainly because of the lot of effort
and enthusiasm of the teams both on the Bank and the Borrower side.




                                               35

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Summary of Participation by Other Donors

During preparation, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the U.S.
Department of the Interior (DOI) and the U.S. National Park Service (NPS) worked with the
KEC project team to help identify project components for the five protected areas included in the
project. DOI-NPS financed a technical assistance mission of three protected area management
specialists for three weeks to assist with KEC project design, and sponsored a Croatian delegation
of protected area managers to visit U.S. National Parks. DOI/NPS worked with the KEC project
team and MEPP to design a program "Practical Training in National Parks" financed, in part, by
USAID/Croatia. This program was designed to improve visitor interpretation services in two
KEC project national parks; and to provide job training to local youths to assist in the
reintegration of war-affected populations in the KEC project region. This US$120,000 program
was carried out during June 2001-April 2002.

The Dutch Partners for Water Program financed a US$100,000 project to support KEC project
activities by providing Dutch expertise in groundwater pollution and biodiversity conservation in
preparing karst conservation guidelines. In 2005, the Government of Norway donated an
additional US$200,000 to the project, earmarked for the CRRG component. During project
implementation, Croatia established the European Union Delegation in Zagreb and was formally
invited for accession negotiations with the European Union. In parallel with the KEC project, the
EU CARDs program financed several grants focused on Nature Protection. A joint workshop was
held between KEC and the Capacity Building project for the State Institute for Nature Protection
in November 2006 to help reinforce common and complementary objectives of both programs.

Other Partner Comments on ICR
Comments from US Embassy, Zagreb:
Thanks for sending these reports. I have no comments, other than that it looks like it was a very
useful project. You're probably aware that our USAID program in Croatia has closed. Because of
that, it's unlikely there will be any financial support for future projects through the embassy. But
we're happy to be supportive in any other way we can.

Comments from the EU Delegation, Zagreb
Thank you for the document. I went through it and I do not have any comments I would highlight
except to compliment all involved in the team for the work done on this project. As you know, we
are currently running a Natura 2000 project with the SINP and expect some preliminary results to
start coming in after the summer break. That is why I also think it would be useful to meet in July
to coordinate activities. Looking forward to seeing you in Zagreb.




                                                   36

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. National Park Paklenica Management Plan, 2007
2. National Park Rsijnak Management Plan, 2007
3. National Park Northern Velebit Management Plan, 2007
4. Nature Park Velebit Management Plan, 2007
5. National Park Plitvice Management Plan, 2008
6. Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants (CRRG) Program Impact Assessment, 2008
7. Manual for Project Preparation for Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants Program for
    Karst Ecosystem Conservation Project, 2004
8. Social and Rural Development Assessment, Blackstone Corporation, September, 2000
9. Report from the First Park Management Planning Workshop held at National Park Plitvice
    Lakes, Agriconsult, November 2003
10. Report from the Second Park Management Planning Workshop held at Risnjak National Park,
    Croatia, Agriconsult, March 2005
11. First Annual Workshop Report, October, 2003
12. Report of Project Launch Workshop, 2002
13. Report of the Third Annual Workshop held at National Park Northern Velebit, October, 2005
14, Annual Management Planning Workshop Joint with EU CARDs Project for Institutional
    Strengthening of the State Institute for Nature Protection
15. Progress Report of the Project Financed from the Grant of the Kingdom of Norway,
    December, 2005
16, Biannual Progress Reports from Agriconsult 2002-2007
17. Assessment of the Tourism Pattern and Recommendations for the Sustainable Tourism
    Development in the KEC Area, March 2005
18. Guidelines for Development of Management Plans
19. Guidelines for Evaluation of Management Plans
20. Nature Guide to Velebit National Park
21. Cave Inventory Study
22. Manita Pec Cave Management Plan
23. Other Promotional Materials and Guides
24. Project Website: www.kec.hr
25. Films by Project posted on World Bank U-tube website:
26. Guardians of the Karst Video Describing Project Results
    http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UnWCttNoA24
27. Shingle - Preserving the Old Skills - Documentary Video Produced by one of the
    Conservation and Rural Revitalization Grants
    http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0JsOymgdbXM




                                                37

Annex 10. KEC Project Update of Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators

As follow-up to the midterm review, all M&E indicators were reviewed to evaluate their
validity for measuring project impact and their utility for capturing important project
objectives and outcomes. The following table describes key revisions to monitoring
indicators agreed by the client and Bank management.

OUTCOME5               INDICATORS              CHANGE           NEW                     COMMENTS
                       FROM MTR A.M.           MADE             INDICATORS
Significant            Number of law           Indicator                                Ambiguous, and
reduction in           violations (tickets     dropped                                  not a legitimate
destructive            issued)                                                          measure of project
practices                                                                               objectives
Increased PA           Number of employed      Revised to                               Input/activity
management             KEC park staff          include all                              indicator rather
capacity;              trained in              staff training,                          than outcome or
                       management              not only                                 output indicator,
                       planning                formal training                          but linkage to
                                               in park                                  institutional
                                               management.                              capacity is likely
                                                                                        to be strong. Also,
                                                                                        useful to track
                                                                                        project
                                                                                        implementation
                                                                                        progress
                       Number of employed      Dropped                                  Project focus is on
                       GIS and                                                          upgrading skills of
                       interpretation staff                                             existing staff, not
                                                                                        on adding new
                                                                                        staff
                                                                New Indicator #1:       International best
                                                                Completion of PA        practice includes:
                                                                Management Plans,       clear PA
                                                                consistent with         vision/mission
                                                                international best      statement;
                                                                practice. Interim       objectives-based
Adoption of                                                     target = stakeholder    zoning and
modern approach                                                 comments obtained       strategies; strong
to park                                                         and incorporated into   stakeholder
management                                                      3 draft PA              participation and
planning in the 5                                               Management Plans        partnership;
parks (providing                                                (verified by            knowledge and
model for others                                                Ministry). End of       science-based;
as well)                                                        project target: 5       adaptive
                                                                completed PA            management
                                                                management plans        approach; includes



5 This column includes both outcomes identified in Annex 1 of the PAD, and additional outcomes not
explicitly or clearly defined in the PAD, but agreed upon by the mission and PIU as being highly
significant to project objectives.




                                                      38

                                                                                 priorities and
                                                                                 costs; includes or
                                                                                 provides clear
                                                                                 direction for
                                                                                 detailed action
                                                                                 plans
Improved public     Number of park         Revised (see                          Quality and
knowledge and       publications on        new indicator                         diversity of
appreciation of the biodiversity           #2)                                   interpretive
karst ecosystem     (interpretive                                                materials is more
and Protected       materials)                                                   important than the
Areas                                                                            number of them
                    Number of
                    interpretive panels in
                    the parks
                                                          New indicator #2:      Training in
                                                          each of the 5 parks    interpretation
                                                          is able to provide     services has
                                                          visitors with diverse  stressed
                                                          information and        production of high
                                                          interpretation         quality, well-
                                                          products that reflect  targeted
                                                          training provided      educational,
                                                          under the project.     informational and
                                                          Interim target:        interpretive
                                                          information/interpret  materials in a
                                                          ation training         range of media
                                                          completed by park
                                                          staff; End of Project
                                                          target: each park has
                                                          produced 3-4
                                                          different I/I products
Improved            Number of scientific   Dropped                               Basic research is
scientific          projects                                                     not a main
knowledge of the                                                                 objective of
karst ecosystem in                                                               project--focus is
the project area,                                                                on applied
providing basis for                                                              research for more
better                                                                           effective
management                                                                       monitoring
                    Increased number of    Revised   (see                        Meaning and
                    scientific databases   new indicator                         relevance of the
                                           # 3)                                  indicator and
                                                                                 reporting format
                                                                                 unclear
                                                          New indicator # 3:     The monitoring
                                                          an integrated,         system should
                                                          sustainable            include: baseline
                                                          ecological             flora and fauna
                                                          monitoring system      inventory that is
                                                          is in place and in use updated regularly;
                                                          Interim targets:       intensive tracking
                                                          Identification of key  of selected
                                                          indicator species;     indicator species;
                                                          baseline inventory     user-friendly and
                                                          50% completed. End     accessible


                                                39

                                                       of Project Targets:     GIS/information
                                                       baseline inventory      management
                                                       completed; rangers in   system
                                                       all 5 parks inputting
                                                       data)
Increase and        Expenditure ($$) on  Retained                              Input indicator
improve physical    various types of                                           rather than output
assets (equipment,  equipment and                                              or outcome, but
civil works) for    infrastructure                                             directly linked to
PA management                                                                  management
                                                                               capacity and
                                                                               useful for tracking
                                                                               project
                                                                               implementation
                                                                               performance
Enhanced    visitor Response to visitor  Revised       Revised indicator:      As project time
satisfaction  with  survey, summarized                 establishing a system   frame insufficient
park services       by response to                     within each park to     to expect
                    question regarding                 track trends in visitor significant
                    whether the visitor                satisfaction. Interim   changes in visitor
                    "learned something                 target: preparing a     satisfaction,
                    new?"                              visitor satisfaction    focusing instead
                                                       survey to be used by    on establishing a
                                                       all the parks; End of   tracking system.
                                                       project target: Park    Croatian park
                                                       managers using the      managers are not
                                                       survey minimum of       accustomed to
                                                       once per year           soliciting input
                                                                               from visitors as
                                                                               feedback, so their
                                                                               adoption and use
                                                                               of a visitor
                                                                               satisfaction survey
                                                                               would represent a
                                                                               significant step in
                                                                               modernizing park
                                                                               management
                                                                               practices
                    Number of visitors   Dropped                               Not under control
                                                                               of the project
                                                                               activities (many
                                                                               other factors
                                                                               involved), and
                                                                               project time frame
                                                                               insufficient to
                                                                               expect statistically
                                                                               significant change
Increased      and  Number of KEC        Slightly                              Count only those
strengthened        workshops, meetings  revised and                           meetings and
partnerships                             consolidated                          workshops
relating to park    Number of meetings                                         involving the
management          with Slovenia and                                          external partners
                    Bosnia and                                                 (including
                    Herzegovina                                                transboundary).
                                                                               While the
                                                                               indicator does not


                                               40

                                                                       address the
                                                                       usefulness or
                                                                       outcomes of these
                                                                       meetings, having
                                                                       them at all
                                                                       represents a
                                                                       significant
                                                                       positive change in
                                                                       park management
                                                                       practice
Demonstrate the   Verification that   Retained                         Important to
viability of      grant funds were                                     demonstrate that
biodiversity-     distributed for                                      the CRRG funds
friendly resource productive purposes                                  are well
use (CRRG         [consistent with                                     administered and
Program)          Operational Manual]                                  closely monitored
                  Number of CRRG      Dropped                          No target set for
                  projects                                             total number of
                                                                       grants/projects;
                                                                       project    numbers
                                                                       are less significant
                                                                       than their quality
                                                                       and    linkage    to
                                                                       project objectives.
                                                 New Indicator #4:     Specific
                                                 CRRG program          improved
                                                 directly contributes  practices include:
                                                 to adoption of more   application for
                                                 ecologically          certification of
                                                 sustainable land and  ecological
                                                 natural resource use  production (by
                                                 practices. Interim    designated control
                                                 target: 70% of all    stations of
                                                 CRRG project grant    MAFW);
                                                 contracts include     preservation of
                                                 commitment by         meadow
                                                 beneficiary to adopt  landscapes
                                                 specific improved     (through grazing
                                                 practices. End of     or mowing);
                                                 project target: 100%  measures to
                                                 of the CRRG projects  promote
                                                 with such contractual environmental
                                                 provisions show clear soundness of
                                                 progress toward       tourism
                                                 fulfilling those      development, etc.
                                                 commitments.




                                           41


