DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. PE-52A
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
LEBANON
FIllE COPY
November 29, 1972
Education Division
EMENA Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                           = 3.06 Lebanese Pounds (LL)
1 Lebanese Pound (LL)             = US$0.327
1 million Lebanese Pounds (LE) = US$327,000
MEASURES
1 m2             10.76 sq ft
1 km2       =    0.39 sq mi
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Note: The Lebanese Pound is a freely fluctuating currency.
In this report, conversions between Lebanese Pounds and
U.S. dollars have been based upon the following exchange
rate which existed at the time of field appraisal:
US$1.00           = 3.11 Lebanese Pounds
1 Lebanese Pound = US$0.321



LEBANON
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............................          i
Is  INTRODUCTION ............................. ...............  1
II.   THE SETTING ......................... ..................  1
Socio-Economic Background ...................... ........   1
Economic Development Strategy and Manpower ............  2
III.   THE EDUCATION SYSTEM ..............s...... o..#.   3
General ...................... ............ . ........ .0.    3
Private Education    .      .  . ............ ........ * . .  3
Primary and Lower Secondary Education       ...........  4
Upper Secondary Education .......    ......................   4
Non-formal Vocational Training .....    ...................   5
Higher Education ......................................   5
IV.   EDUCATIONAL ISSUES AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES             5
V.   RATIONALIZING EDUCATION COSTS   ....................      9
VI.  THE PROJECT     .      ......... . .     .... . ......... 12
General ........... .....  12
Primary Schools        .    . .. ..$. ........... . ....  13
Lower Secondary Schools ......... .       .............. 13
Primary Teacher Training Institutes                       14
Lower Secondary Teacher Training Institute               14
Technical Assistance.. ...........  15
Cost of the Project ........................ .....  16
VII.  IMPLEMENTATION..........  17
Administration...                                ....  17
Procurement........ .... ...... .   18
Disbursements..                         ..............   18
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION      ....   18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Lebanon during February 1972.  The mission consisted of Messrs. 0. Markgren
(mission leader), M. Krohn (I.L.O. technical educator), N. McEvers (economist)
and C. Molineaux (architect, consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
APPENDICES
I.   Education and Training
II.   Education Costs and Finances
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Enrollments, Teachers and Institutions by Level and
Type of Education, 1970/71
3.   Supply and Demand of Primary School Teachers in Government
Schools 1970-1980
4.   Supply and Demand of Lower Secondary School Teachers in
Government Schools 1970-1980
5.   Expenditures on Education and Training, 1971
6.   Government Annual Recurrent Costs per Pupil
7.   Public Expenditures on Education and Training, 1962-1971
8.   Government's Rationalization and Expansion Program
("Plan de Regroupement") at Primary and Lower
Secondary Levels
9.   Comparison of Recurrent Cost Implications of Education
Development Plan, 1980
10.   Projected Costs and Benefits of the Primary School Component
in the Proposed Bank Project
11.   Projected Costs and Benefits of the Lower Secondary School
Component in the Proposed Bank Project
12.   Projection of Public Expenditures on Education and Training
13.   Estimated Project Costs by Various Types of Expenditures
14.   Unit Capital Costs and Efficiency of- New Project Institutions
15.   Contingency Allowances
16.   Project Implementation Schedule
17.   Disbursement Schedule
CHARTS
Structure of the Education and Training System (6757)
Enrollment Pyramid 1970/71 (6758)
Growth of Enrollments in Primary and Secondary Education (6759)
MAP



0
LEBANON
BASIC DATA
Total Population (1970)                               2.8 million
Current Population Growth Rate                        2.5%
Primary Enrollment (1971)                             514,700
As Percent of Age Group                               78.5% (excluding 31% overaged)
Lower Secondary Enrollment (1971)                     128,580
As Percent of Age Group                               35.0% (excluding approx. 15%
overaged)
Upper Secondary Enrollment (1971)                     53,300
As Percent of Age Group                            22.0% (excluding approx. 10%
_                                                                     overaged)
Higher Education Enrollment (1971)                    19,640
As Percent of Age Group                            8.6%
Government Expenditure on Education as a
Percent of Government Current Revenue (1971)       21.0%
Expenditure on Education as a Percent of GDP (1971);  7.4%
Of which Private Expenditure                       3.4%






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project ir. Lebanon for which a
Bank loan of US$6.6 million is proposed.  Lebanon is a commercially active
country, one of the more advanced of the developing nations. Its education
system, however, has not kept pace with the country's requirements for
greater numbers of better educated, and more practically oriented and train-
able personnel. Moreover, it has not been able to provide equitable oppor-
tunities for schooling for all groups in the country.
ii.       Lebanon's education goals, therefore, are first, to reorient the
present highly academic system to a more practical and technical one and
second, to expand educational opportunity by extending improved schooling to
all segments of the population on an equal basis. As a first step, the gov-
ernment intends to reform and expand the primary and lower secondary levels.
Quality will be improved by planned revisions in teacher training curricula
and methods, and in curricula, examinations, and equipment at primary and
lower secondary levels; the government, taking the lead in this program to
improve the quality of education, has established a new administrative group
to assist in developing and implementing these changes. Tn addition, 225,000
primary school places and 197,000 lower secondary school places will be con-
structed by 1980 to offer educational opportunities on a more uniform basis
throughout the country.
iii.      Typical of the country's economy, the private sector dominates the
education sector; this is the most striking feature of the Lebanese education
system. Private schools account for 62% of total enrollment (63% of primary,
47% of lower secondary, 71% of upper secondary, and 77% of higher education).
These schools vary widely in quality and are expensive to attend with tuition
fees rising annually. A significant expansion of the private school system
is not possible on the present basis because the ceiling on the numbers who
can afford the tuition fees has already been reached. This has resulted in
increased expansion of government-aided private schools (65% of the increase
in private primary school enrollment during the past ten years was subsidized
by the government) and in increased demands for free public education.
iv.       The government recognizes that, if the educational system is to
respond to the economy's demands, the public education system is the part
which will have to provide the bulk of the required expansion. This system
is relatively small at present because of the government's past reliance
upon the private sector. One of the results of this reliance has been the
government's practice of locating public schools mainly in response to needs
which the private system was unwilling or unable to meet at the time. Perhaps
because this deficiency of private education in a particular area was often
only temporary, the government adopted the practice of renting private dwelling
units for use as public schools. This has proven to be uneconomical due to
increasingly high rents and to an increasingly high wage bill for teachers
caused by the low student-teacher ratios imposed by small classrooms.



v.        If the present practice of renting schools were continued, it
would be difficult for the government to achieve the targets ror expansion
of public school enrollments, as this would require the allocation in 1980
of 40% of the government's recurrent budget to the Ministry of Education.
The government has decided, therefore, to construct a network of public
schools which would replace rented facilities and would rationalize the
existing pubic school system at primary and lower secondary levels. In
addition to eliminating rents, the program would also allow the schools to
be strategically located within catchment areas and for teacher-pupil ratios
to increase to 1:35 in primary and 1:30 in lower secondary schools from the
present average of 1:18 for primary schools and 1:23 for lower secondary
schools, with economies in teachers' use of common facilities.
vi.       The proposed Bank project would assist in the initial phase of this
program by supporting the construction of 39 primary and 24 lower secondary
schools, which would represent 14% and 7% of the enrollment capacity to be
built at these two levels, respectively, by 1980. The project schools would
be the first to be built in the program and would serve as model schools for
the programming, planning, construction and equipping of the other new schools
included in the rationalization program.
vii.      Because of the difference between the costs per pupil in the proj-
ect schools and in similar schools using rented facilities, the primary and
lower secondary schools in the project would result in considerable savings.
The difference between the costs (capital and recurrent) of catering for
24,240 primary school students in the project primary schools and in the
rented facilities they would replace would amount to a savings for the gov-
ernment of US$1.1 million annually. Even disregarding the educational
benefits to be realized from the expected upgrading of academic standards,
the rate of financial return to the government on the project's 32 primary
schools would be 21.5% over a 15 year period. A similar rate of return on
the lower secondary schools would be 24%.
viii.     In addition to the above primary and lower secondary schools, the
project would assist the government in its efforts to upgrade the quality of
its education system by including the financing of:
(a)  construction and equipment for three primary teachers training
institutions;
(b)  the renovation and equipment for one lower secondary teacher
training institute;
(c)  technical assistance in planning the comprehensive devel-
opment of upper secondary education, particularly tech-
nical education.
.



- iii -
ix.       A project implementation unit would be established within the Conseil
Executif des Grands Projects (CEGP) to provide overall supervision of the
project. Contracts for civil works and equipment would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Furniture would be purchased under reserved procurement, as requested by the
government, and would not be financed by the loan. Preferred domestic bids
for equipment would be accorded a margin of preference of 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports, or the generally applicable level of duty, which-
ever is lower. Lebanon does not have any regional preferential agreements.
x.        The total project cost is estimated at US$15.9 million, including
contingencies. Cost data are based on detailed schedules of accommodation
and contracts for similar work. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at approximately US$6.6 million equivalent, corresponding to 42% of the es-
timated total project cost.
xi.       The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$6.6  million
to Lebanon for a term of 25 years including a grace period of 5 years.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Unesco mission visited Lebanon in May 1971 to identify education
projects suitable for Bank financing: a Bank mission reviewed these findings
with the government in September 1971 and agreed on the project items that
would be submitted for Bank financing. In November 1971, a Unesco project
preparation mission assisted the government in preparing the proposed project,
for which the government requested Bank assistance in January 1972. A mission
comprising Messrs. 0. Markgren (mission leader), M. Krohn (I.L.O. technical
educator), N. McEvers (economist) and C. Molineaux (architect, consultant)
appraised the project in February 1972.
1.02      The project was modified during appraisal.  The technical education
and technical teacher training components were deleted because they were not
based on a well-developed plan, and technical assistance was added to assist
the government to develop a comprehensive plan for future consolidation and
reform of upper secondary education, including technical education.
II. THE SETTING
Socio-Economic Background
2.01      Lebanon is one of the more advanced and commercially active of the
developing nations. Long involved in international trade, it has been ex-
posed to a wide diversity of cultural influences and today it has several
spoken languages, namely Arabic, French and English. Since the end of World
War II, when the French Mandate ended, the Lebanese have used their ingenuity
in trading and in entrepreneurship to fashion a unique role for themselves in
the Middle Eastern economy and in world commerce by: a) exploiting their
geographic position to establish their country as a major transit point for
goods and people, b) building on their traditional role as traders to estab-
lish Lebanon as a commercial and financial center for the Middle East and
c) exploiting the attraction of Lebanon's natural beauty and historical sites
for the foreign tourist.
2.02      The Lebanese people are divided almost equally in number between
Christian and Moslem communities, which in turn, are sub-divided into numerous
sects and factions. By constitutional agreement, the interests of the two
religious communities must be equitably balanced in the organization and con-
duct of the country's political and social affairs. This balance is main-
tained under a democratic rule, with a high degree of political and social
stability.
2.03      In the past, population growth within Lebanon tended to be reduced
by emigration. However, emigration has slackened off considerably in recent
years. As a result, Lebanon's population of about 2.8 million (1970) is in-
creasing at the fairly high rate of 2.5% per year.  Furthermore, approximately



- 2 -
55% of the population is under 20 years of age. The population's growth rate
rand age structure have given rise to escalating demands for education and have
placed increasing strains on existing educational facilities especially at
primary and lower secondary levels.
2.04      Its unique structure makes the economy vulnerable to international
economic and political fluctuations:  trade, tourism, international banking
and transport contribute two-third of GDP. Agriculture, industry and con-
struction together contribute about 35%, but together employ over half the
labor force of 572,000 (1970). Although it has provided some key elements
of infrastructure and maintains monetary stability, in economic matters the
government traditionally has adhered to a "laissez-faire'" economic approach.
The economy averaged 5.5% real growth p.a. during 1961-1971 despite negative
effects of the Intra-Bank collapse, the Six Day War, and confrontations with
Palestinian guerillas.
2.05      Although economic growth has been sufficient to raise per capita
GNP from US$486 in 1964 to US$610 (1970), it has still benefited mainly a
narrow segment of the society. Inequalities in the distribution of income
as well as in the provision of social services (favoring urban over rural
areas) have tended to widen. The government is now concerned that these
disparities, unless redressed, could pose a potential threat to Lebanon's
stability. Non-intervention by government has deterred both the expansion
of publicly provided social services and the fiscal modernization needed to
help support such expansion.  Now, however, the government is planning to
take a more active role in expanding and improving social services and in
reducing inequalities in income. A major reform of the direct tax system
to enhance the government's financial capacity is part of a long range pro-
gram to achieve these objectives.
Economic Development Strategy and Manpower
2.06      The government's 1972-77 development plan aims to reach and main-
tain, as a minimal target, at least 7.0% growth per annum of Lebanon's econ-
omy. This increase will be based mainly on the continued growth of services.
The service sectors are expected to expand at a rate of 8% yearly, compared
with approximately 7.5% p.a. during the period 1965-1970; over this same
period, agriculture and industry grew at 1.8% p.a. and 7.4% p.a. respectively.
However, the 1972-77 plan also intends to achieve some degree of diversifica-
tion in the economy so that development could become less dependent on serv-
ices: to this end, the plan forecasts that agriculture will grow at 4% to
5% p.a. and industry at 9% to 10% p.a. (partly in response to export oppor-
tunities in the region), increasing their combined total share of GDP from
about 22% in 1970 to 24.5% in 1977.
2.07      Over the long term, an element crucial to the success of Lebanon's
strategy will be the human resources available to support the country's growth
and development. Although detailed data are lacking, the economic growth
charted in the 1972-77 plan would require new employment, due both to job



- 3 -
creation and to replacement, of about 63,000 in the primary sector, 124,000
in the secondary and 138,000 in the tertiary sector over the period 1972-80.
Based on these figures, it is estimated that annual requirements for new
middle level manpower will reach about 15,000 by 1980.  This is in contrast
to the present output from upper secondary schools which averaged, between
1965-70, 9,000 per annum.  Many expatriates, mainly Syrians, who constituted
over 9% of the labor force in 1970, were working as semi-skilled and skilled
craftsmen in construction, industry and public services (power, water, trans-
port, communications), sectors which are already experiencing shortages of
technically-trained Lebanese manpower. Assuming that growth plans for these
sectors are realized, the skill shortages are expected to become more severe
in the future. These indicators suggest that the stock of trained personnel
required in the future will be larger than what the existing educational sys-
tem can produce.
2.08      Future growth of Lebanon's relatively dynamic and diversified serv-
ice activities will require not only a larger but also a better schooled, more
practically-oriented and trainable pool of manpower. With Lebanon's emergence
as a modern commercial nation occupying a position of growing importance in
the regional and world economy, it has become increasingly evident that native
business acumen no longer suffices in the operation of the service sectors.
Furthermore, the supply of skills needed for agricultural and industrial de-
velopment and for efficient operation of the country's infrastructure (which
has been rapidly extended in the last decade) will depend partly upon labor
transfer and mobility, and consequently on the overall adaptability of the
labor force.  The educational system, as presently constituted, is not in a
position to respond to these requirements.
III. THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
(Appendix I, Annexes 2-4, Charts 6757, 6758, 6759)
General
3.01       Education in Lebanon is structured as follows.  Primary education
consists of a five-year cycle normally beginning at the age of six. General
secondary education comprises a four-year lower and three-year upper cycle.
Secondary technical education and training is offered primarily at the upper
cycle in courses of up to four years. Higher education is offered in courses
of normally four to five years in universities and teacher training and tech-
nical institutes.
Private Education
3.02       Consistent with the private sector's importance in all fields, the
country has traditionally relied heavily on private schooling. Private schools
account for 62% of total enrollment (63% of primary, 47% of lower secondary,
71% of upper secondary and 77% of higher education). The private schools are



-4-
sponsored by different religious and commercial groups; at primary and second-
ary level, Roman Catholic schools serve 43% of all private school pupils,
other denominations, mainly Moslem, serve 18% and private profit-making in-
terests serve the remaining 39%. They also vary widely in quality, from very
good schools with high academic standards to extremely low-quality schools.
Yet, regardless of their sponsorship or quality, private schools are expen-
sive to attend, and their tuition costs are rising each year.
Primary and Lower Secondary Education
3.03      In primary education, about 79% of the age group, or 515,000 stu-
dents, were enrolled in 1971, but only about 65% of those entering the course
complete it. About 12 student years are required to produce one primary
school graduate.
3.04      At lower secondary level, 35% of the relevant age group (and 15%
of over-age students) are enrolled. Repeater rates are also high. There
is a great disparity in the quality of private and public lower secondary
schools. About 90% of all students in private lower secondary education
attend full cycle secondary schools (grades 6-12) and are taught by teachers
trained for the upper secondary level, while about 81% of all students enrolled
in public lower secondary education are housed with primary schools and taught
by primary school teachers. For primary school graduates who cannot gain
access to the lower secondary academic course, either for scholastic or economic
reasons, further training is available in eight public lower secondary voca-
tional schools or private schools offering mostly commercial subjects. Training
in the public vocational schools is of low quality and their graduates' employ-
ment prospects are poor.
3.05      The supply of qualified teachers at these levels is low.  In 1971,
only 40% of primary teachers and about 27% of lower secondary teachers were
considered qualified. The present primary teacher training capacity, how-
ever, is sufficient to produce a fully qualified primary school teaching
staff by 1980, a net increase of about 6,800 over the present staff of 3,300
qualified teachers (Annex 3). Lower secondary teacher training began only
in 1971 when the government, in cooperation with UNDP/Unesco, started a
three-year program for training science teachers; this program is expected
to meet the demand for 1,500 science teachers by 1981. On the other hand,
adequate facilities do not exist for training the approximately 3,000 teachers
needed for social science and languages over the same period. Their training
will have to start in provisional facilities this year (Annex 4).
Upper Secondary Education
3.06      Upper secondary education (grades 9-12) in 1971 enrolled about
53,000 students or 32% of the relevant age group divided among the differ-
ent types of education at this level as follows: general education (68% of
enrollment), technical and commercial education (26%) and primary teacher
training (6%). Education at this level is quite academic and traditional
in content and generally, therefore, not in keeping with the modern needs
for a more practical orientation and preparation.



-5-
3.07      Although public technical and commercial education enrollment has
expanded rapidly in the past three years - from 795 in 1968 to the present
2,377 - the structure and content of the system are not appropriate to the
needs of the economy for skilled workers and technicians (para. 2.07). The
curriculum in industrial trades emphasizes general education and theoretical
subjects and encourages students to seek white collar jobs. As a result,
technical school graduates tend not to work as skilled workers or technicians
in industry, but as office employees at the subprofessional level and in other
jobs unrelated to their training.
3.08      Changes are clearly required in technical education (paras. 2.07,
2.08), but planning is inadequate. New upper secondary technical schools
under construction will provide about 2,500 new student places in 1974. How-
ever, no plans have been made as to the trades or specialities to be offered
in these schools, and agreements to involve industry in determining the courses
or their content have not been made.
Non-formal Vocational Training
3.09      The National Vocational Training Center, under the Ministry of
Labor, organizes accelerated training courses of 5 to 12 months' duration
in close cooperation with industry. Thus far, it has trained over 1,000
workers, all of whom have been successfully employed. Beyond this govern-
ment program, all other non-formal training schemes are privately sponsored,
3         but their sizes are negligible.
Higher Education
3.10      Lebanon, with its many private and government colleges in Beirut,
has become a center for higher education in the Middle East. In 1971, 41,700
students were enrolled, of which 47% were Lebanese and the rest from neighbor-
ing countries. About 28% of the students were enrolled in technical, science
and science-related faculties. In addition, about 6,000 students were en-
rolled in universities abroad, mainly in France. There are at present no
university development plans.
IV. EDUCATIONAL ISSUES AND DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES
4.01      Lebanon's goals, consistent with its overall development strategy,
are to adapt its educational system to the country's needs by first, re-
orienting the highly academic system to a more practical and technical one
and second, expanding educational opportunity by extending improved school-
ing to all segments of the population on an equal basis. The present system,
although it has reached comparatively high enrollment levels in relation to
many other developing countries, (paragraph 3.03-3.10) is nonetheless con-
stituted so as to make achievement of these goals difficult: based on a



pre-World War II French model, the system is traditional in content and overly
selective, thereby limiting further education possibilities for many students.
Moreover, the dominance of private education and its high tuition fees
(paragraph 3.02) limit possibilities for future expansion and improvement of
formal education in the country at all levels. As the major bottleneck to
reform is at the beginning levels, primary and lower secondary education have
received priority in the government's plans for educational reform.
4.02      For primary education, increasing numbers of parents have been
forced to send their children to less expensive, government-subsidized pri-
vate schools, which consequently increased in enrollments from less than 25%
to 50% of total private primary enrollments during 1960-1971. Increases
in tuition have also resulted in mounting demands for the government to ex-
pand free public education at primary and lower secondary levels. In sum-
mary, while in the past, private schools have been able to meet demnands for
education, the limit of students able to afford them bas been reached, par-
ticularly in the rural areas.
4.03      At the same time, the government school system responded on an
ad hoc basis to the needs which the private sector had not met. This has
resulted in the widespread practice of renting school facilities - 85% of
all public primary school enrollment and 100% of all public lower secondary
school enrollment are housed in rented facilities. Most of these facilities,
in addition to being expensive, are inadequate for educational purposes. In
many instances, family dwelling units have been converted into government
schools which lack sufficient space to accommodate economical class sizes;
this results in uneconomically low student:teacher ratios (the average is
only 1:18 in primary schools and 1:23 in lover secondary schools). The
financial implications of this practice, fully described in this reportts
section on rationalizing education costs, are that without revision of this
uneconomical system, the government will not have the resources either to
expand or invest in needed qualitative improvements.
4.04      Reform Plans.  In order to begin the reform of Lebanese education
along the lines suggested by the six-year plan, 'i972-77, and policy state-
ments by the Minister of Education, the Ministry of Education in close co-
operation with the Ministry of Planning has decided to focus in the 1970's
first on reforming and rationalizing primary and lower secondary education and
to assume increasingly a large share of education from the private sector at
these levels. The goals of this reform are: (i) to provide gradually a
common base of comprehensive lower secondary schooling for all primary school
graduates, and thus to equalize educational opportunity by providing up to
ten years of basic schooling to all children from approximately ages 5 through
14 and (ii) to improve the quality and efficiency of education at primary and
lower secondary school levels. After this reform has been initiated success-
fully, and based on it, the upper secondary level will be reformed.
4.05      Total public and private enrollments are planned to expand to 95%
and 65% of the primary and lower secondary age groups respectively between



- 7.-
1971-1980. The development of enrollments during 1971-80, and the propor-
tions to be accounted for by private and public schooling, are as follows:
1971                   1980
a                                                 _No.              %     No.              %
Primary Level
Public                           192,518          37.4  340,000          54.3
Government Aided Private         158,455          30.8  165,000          26.4
Private                          163,729          31.8  121,000          19.3
Total                       514,702        100.0  626,000         100.0
% Age-Group Enrolled                              78.5                   95.0
(excluding 31% over aged)
Lower Secondary
Public                            65,150          52.7  197,000          67.4
Private                           58,487          47.3   95,300          32.6
Total                       123,637        100.0  292,300         100.0
% Age-Group Enrolled                              35.0                   65.0
(excluding 15% over aged)
4.06      In order to achieve these targets, and in view of the constraints
on the private sector's capacity for expansion, the government will provide
the required expansion at the primary level and also absorb about 11% of the
primary school students enrolled in inadequate private schools. In addition,
the government plans to provide facilities for about 79% of targeted total
expansion at the lower secondary level.
4.07      Under the reform, a pre-school year will be added to the five-year
primary school course. Selectivity at the primary level will be abolished.
This has already been partly accomplished by eliminating the examinations at
the end of each grade, thereby making promotion between grades nearly auto-
matic, and by eliminating the final school leaving examination at the end of
grade 6. All students will eventually progress to four years of a common
lower secondary education designed to guide them towards further general, pre-
vocational or vocational studies, or employment. Thus a student's choice of
career will be deferred under the new system to grade 10. Finally, separate
lower secondary vocational schools will be phased out and all lower second-
ary education programs will be offered under one roof. For the first time
in Lebanon, teachers will be trained specifically for lower secondary level.



-8-
The project would assist in financing the renovation and equipping of the
lower secondary school teacher training institution for this purpose. By
these measures, it is expected that the existing differences in the quality
of education at this level between public and private schools (paragraph 3.04)
will be eliminated.
4.08      An important part of the government's plans for improving the qual-
ity of education at these levels includes improving teacher training and
curricula which are highly academic and outmoded. New, more modern primary
school curricula recently developed by the Ministry of Education will be
introduced. These include modern mathematics and instruction in modern
foreign languages; knowledge of these languages is particularly important
because of the multilingual character of the country (para. 2.01). In addi-
tion, revised curricula emphasize study of the natural environment and its
problems. Lower secondary school curricula already being used in schools
include a broad common core of academic and optional practical subjects
stressing manual work to replace the present highly academic curriculum
which mainly prepares students for further education. The related final
examination, also under revision, will be introduced in 1976. The new curric-
ula provide a better base of general education for all students in order to
make them more adaptable for further training and employment needs and to
help them defer decisions on career and study programs to a later age. Guid-
ance and counselling services will be offered to the students so as to assist
them in the choice of courses appropriate to their abilities and future pros-
pects.  As a first step in implementing this guidance program, an experimental
training program for guidance counsellors was initiated at the Lebanese Uni-
versity in 1971.
4.09      As part of the program to improve the quality of the education sys-
tem, the primary teacher training system will be up-graded and consolidated.
The present system comprises seven institutions with a combined enrollment
of 3,240; only two are adequately housed. The remaining five schools, which
are poorly housed in rented facilities, will be replaced by three larger modern
institutions with a combined enrollment approximately the same as in the five
schools they will replace.  The present three-year upper secondary training
course will be continued but adapted to the new primary school curriculum
and to more modern teaching techniques. In addition, a special one-year
post-secondary course will be initiated for in-service training of unqual-
ified teachers who now represent about 60% of the primary school teaching
force (Annex 3).  The government intends to adjust the enrollments in the
three-year and one-year courses so that, beginning in 1975, about 600 would
be graduated annually from the longer pre-service course and 400 from the
in-service course. Through this program, about 92% of the primary school
teachers would be qualified in 1980. The project would include the construc-
tion, furnishing and equipment of the three new primary teacher training in-
stitutions envisaged in this program.
4.10      General upper secondary education will have to undergo a reform,
particularly in view of the planned reforms of primary and lower secondary



-9-
education. Curricula will have to be changed to be in accord with the intro-
duction of new curricula at the lower levels. A balance between types of
courses will have to be established offering a combination of technical and
academic subjects appropriate for the preparation of pre-university students
and those who intend to enter employment directly after completion of second-
ary education. Although this approach has been agreed on, there has been so
far no detailed planning for implementing it; furthermore, some of the plan-
ning will have to wait until experience is gained from the reform of the lower
levels. The proposed project therefore includes technical assistance to help
the government in comprehensive planning for reform at the upper secondary
level. In this there will be an emphasis on planning for technical education
(paragraph 3.08).
4.11      An administrative group, the Education Center for Research and De-
velopment, was established in April 1972, in consultation with Unesco to help
develop and implement the above changes. The Center, under the direction of
a well qualified director, deals broadly with questions concerning overall
policy and planning of all levels except university education. It also col-
laborates with other institutions working in planning related to education.
The Center will continue to deal with the continuous revision and evaluation
of curricula and examinations, development of school standa-rds and equipment,
and development of educational materials such as teachers' manuals. Coordina-
tion between the Center and the operational departments within the Ministry
of Education is implemented through an Advisory Committee composed of the
Director of the Center and the Ministry's other department heads.
V. RATIONALIZING EDUCATION COSTS
5.01      General.  Lebanon's national outlay on education and training is
high for a developing country, amounting to 7.4% of GDP (1971). Private
resources, however, account for about 54% of this expenditure (Annex 5) which
are derived largely from school fees. About fifty percent of the pupils, who
cannot afford to pay the usual private, primary school fees, pay lesser
amounts and their schools receive an annual subsidy from the government
that covers about 41% of the difference; the balance is provided by the or-
ganizations operating the schools. Some 90% of public expenditure on educa-
tion is financed by the central government. Public primary schools are
free, but public secondary schools charge a nominal, annual fee of L*631
(US$10). Over 75% of the Lebanese University budget is funded by the
central government and the rest by student fees. Except for private univer-
sity education, the amount of external financing is negligible.
5.02      Costs and Expenditure.  Private schools fees are high, ranging from
LL251 (US$81) p.a. to LL630 (US$203) for the primary grades (in non government-
aided schools) and from LE362 (US$116) to Li)1,000 (US$322) for the secondary
level. With its present fee structure and enrollments, the private sector
covers at primary and secondary levels that segment of the population who can
afford to pay the annual fees and associated costs of private schooling.  For



- 10 -                                                 9
this reason, there are severe limitations on private education's EaiL-ty to
enroll in the future greater proportions of Lebanon's primary and lower sec-
ondary age groups than it enrolls now. On the other hand, the government also
faces financial constraints on its capacity to undertake the full burden of
expansion in primary and lower secondary enrollments as planned (para. 4.07).
5.03      The low student-teacher ratio resulting from the small rented facil-
ities (paragraph 4.03) combined with increases in rents, in teachers' sala-
ries (which represent over 70% of recurrent costs) and in administrative ex-
penses, caused recurrent costs per pupil in public primary and lower second-
ary schools to increase at over 11% per annum during 1968-1971 (Annex 6).
5.04      Recurrent outlays on primary and lower secondary education absorb
over 50% and 20% respectively of the Ministry of Education's expenditures
(which, in turn, account for more than 93% of the central governments' total
outlay on education). Due to the high recurrent costs of primary and lower
secondary schooling, together with enrollment growth and a sharp increase
(14.6% per annum) in the amount of subsidy per student paid to private pri-
mary schools, the central government's total educational expenditures quad-
rupled between 1962 and 1971 (Annex 7). As the central government's total
expenditures rose by only 7.2% per annum over the same period, education's
share of total central government expenditures increased from 11% to 21%
(Annex 7). If the government attempted to achieve the public school enrollment
targets for 1980, while continuing the present practice of accommodating its
primary and lower secondary school pupils in rented facilities, the Ministry
of Education's recurrent expenditures in 1980 would absorb 40% of the government '
recurrent budget. Even with additional resources acquired from improvements tc
the direct tax system, which have already been initiated, it would be extremely
difficult for the government to allocate sufficient resources for either its
planned expansions or future development of public education at higher levels,
unless it could place its primary and lower secondary education on a more
economical basis than at present.
5.05      "Plan de Regroupement".  The government has, therefore, planned a
systematic rationalization of the network of school facilities at the primary
and lower secondary levels ("Plan de Regroupement"). Four hundred new primary
and 295 new lower secondary schools will be built under this program during
1972-1980, many of them in rural areas. They will provide 225,000 new primary
school places, of which 34% will replace rented space, and 197,000 new lower
secondary places, of which 33% will replace rented facilities (Annex 8). By
1980, only 25% of the government's primary school pupils, and none of its
lower secondary students, will be accommodated in rented facilities (Annex 8).
The program wili allow for school facilities to be centralized within the
catchment areas, for teacher/pupil ratios to improve up to 1:35 in primary
and to 1:30 in lower secondary schools, for more efficient use to be made
of teachers, for considerable public budget savLngs to be realized in rents,
and thus for substantially lower recurrent costs per pupil to government than
would otherwise be possible. By 1980, the recurrent cost per government
pupil at constant prices will be LE387 (US$124) at the primary level and
LU409 (US$132) at the lower secondary level, as compared with LU616 (US$198)                0



- 11 t
per primary school pupil and LW742 (US$239) per lower secondary school pupil
in rented facilities in that year (Annex 9).  Seventy-six percent of the dif-
ference between the costs of catering for students in new schools and in
rented facilities would represent savings in direct teacher costs and 24%
would represent savings in rents.  The new costs, moreover, would allow for
increased allocations for didactic materials and supplies. Under this Plan
by 1980, the government will save approximately L6144 million (US$46.3 mil-
lion) per annum in recurrent budget outlays for primary and lower secondary
education (Annex 9). Despite higher student-teacher ratios, no employment
difficulties are foreseen for teachers within the framework of an-expanding
education system.
5.06      The proposed project would assist the government in the initial
phase of the "Plan de Regroupement," by including 39 primary and 24 lower
secondary schools. These would represent 14% and 7% of the enrollment capac-
ity to be built for the two levels respectively under the "Plan" by 1980.
The project schools would be the first to be built under the "Plan" and would
be located to serve as model schools for the programming, planning, construc-
tion and equipping of the other new schools in the rationalization program.
5.07      Because of the difference between the costs per pupil in the project
schools and in rented facilities, the project's primary and lower secondary
schools would constitute a sound investment. The difference between the costs
(capital and recurrent) of catering for 24,240 primary school students in the
32 project primary schools that will replace rented facilities would amount to
0         a savings for the government of US$1.1 million annually.  Without taking into
account the educational benefits to be realized from the expected upgrading of
academic standards (which are too difficult to quantify), and considering
these annual savings as the only quantifiable benefits, the rate of financial
return on the investment by the government in the project's 32 primary schools
would be 21.5% over a 15-year period (Annex 10). The rate of return on the
lower secondary schools would be 24% (Annex 11).
5.08      Projection of Government Expenditures in Education.  Future expendi-
tures on education (Annex 12) are expected to grow at about 10% per annum
over the period 1971-1980. By 1980, recurrent expenditures on education are
expected to absorb about 24% of current government revenue and 26% of the
total recurrent outlays made by the Central government, compared with 21%
and 23% respectively in 1971 (Annex 9). Whereas in the past, capital ex-
penditures seldom amounted to more than 4% of the Central government's an-
nual expenditure on education, they will amount to over 10% per annum during
the forecast period.  Of the LE314.4 million in capital funds to be invested
in education by 1980, L1276 million will be spent on the "Plan de Regroupe-
ment," mostly during 1972 through 1977, and the rest will finance new facil-
ities for technical and academic education at the upper secondary level.
The total investment in education will represent 21% of the Central govern-
ment's overall investment program during 1972 through 1980.
.



- 12 -
5.09      The annual recurrent costs of all the proposed project institutions
would be about 6.8% of total projected recurrent expenditures on education by
1980. The capital expenditures on the project schools would amount to less
than 15% of the projected capital expenditures on education during the 1972-
1980 period. Because of the high priority which the government has assigned
to this program, the government can be expected to allocate this share of its
resources to education.
VI. THE PROJECT
General
6.01      The proposed project would assist the government in implementing
its development program for primary and lower secondary education. The pro-
gram is aimed at replacing rented school facilities by appropriate structures
in order to (i) reorient the school system along more practical lines;
(ii) equalize education opportunities; (iii) consolidate school facilities
and (iv) economize on educational recurrent cost. The project would also
assist the government's development program by replacement of facilities
for primary teacher training and improvement of facilities for lower second-
ary teacher training. Technical assistance would be included in the project
in order to assist the government in replanning of upper secondary education
to prepare for reform at this level of education.
6.02      Specifically the project would include:  (a) construction or im-
provement, equipment and furnishing of the institutions listed below; and
(b) 2 man/years of technical assistance.
Total      Annual      Teacher's
Items                          Grades   Capacity       Output   Requirements
A. New Construction, Equipment
and Furniture:
39 Primary Schools          Pre-       30,960        5,000       848
School
+ 1-5
24 Lower Secondary
Schools                  6-9      14,400       3,200        464
3 Primary Teacher           10-12                     650
Training Institutes        13        2,280          320       102
B. Improvement of Facilities,
Equipment and Furniture
One Lower Secondary Teacher
Training Institute           15          380          380        35
No boarding accommodations or staff houses would be required.



- 13 -
Primary Schools
6.03      The project schools would make possible the replacement of about
24,000 primary school places in rented facilities and the absorption of about
7,000 students who would otherwise be in low-quality government-aided private
schools. The project would contribute a capacity of student places equiv-
alent to about 9% of total public primary school enrollments by 1980. Five
;           of the new schools would serve as demonstration schools for the three primary
teacher training institutes included in the project.
6.04      The schools would be of three different sizes - enrollments of 240,
480 and 960.  In accordance with the government's education strategy, the
primary schools would follow new curricula and include modern foreign lan-
guage, modern mathematics and science. The schools would also offer prac-
tical activities such as simple woodwork and sewing. The schools would
serve as model institutions for demonstrating the application of the new
curricula and the use of new teaching methods and media to teachers in
neighboring primary schools (para. 4.08).
Lower Secondary Schools
6.05      All project school places would replace rented facilities.  The
schools would be of three different sizes - with enrollments of 320, 560 and
1,120 - and would contribute school capacity for about 5% of the total lower
secondary school enrollment by 1980.  The curricula would include a common
core of academic subjects (about 85%) and optional practical subjects for
all students. Ten of the schools, located in agricultural regions, would
offer agriculture as options and all schools would have home economics, wood-
work and metalwork. The schools would serve as demonstration schools for
new teaching methods and the use of new media and curricula. The new cur-
ricula would require revision of the existing _examinations and for that
reason the government has provided an assurance that the lower secondary
school examinations will be revised not later than December 31, 1976 in
order to be consistent with the new curricula (para. 4.08). In view of the
importance of educational and career guidance for students in the new system,
the government has enacted supporting legislation to ensure that appropriate
training programs for guidance and counselling will be organized for a minimum
of 100 teachers during the project implementation period.
6.06      Both primary and lower secondary schools would be located in rural
and urban areas with different population patterns. Schools with the same
enrollments would have identical accommodations but the designs would be
adapted to local topographical and climatic conditions.
6.07      As the government has limited experience in school building, the
construction of the project schools is expected to exert a strong influence
upon future construction included in the rest of the rationalization program.
Consequently, the proposed project schools would be expected to make a sub-
stantial contribution for refining planning norms, setting space standards,



- 14 -
establishing technical and fiscal controls for construction and in relating
facility planning to curricula development and new teaching techniques.  Thz
economies realized in the design and construction of the project primary ana
lower secondary schools will also be of benefit to the planning and building
of all the other schools in the government's program (para. 5.06).
Primary Teacher Training Institutes
6.08      The three niew primary teacher training institutes form part of the
government's program to upgrade and modernize its primary teacher training
system (para. 4.09). The institutes would offer 3-year pre-service courses
at upper secondary level and 1-year upgrading courses for unqualified primary
school teachers who have graduated from upper secondary level education.
Each institute would enroll 650 pre-service and 110 in-service students.
The institutes would also be used for in-service training of teachers and
school administrators during vacation time.
6.09      New curricula, to be introduced in all primary teacher training
institutes in the country, will be first introduced on an experimental
basis from 1973 in two existing government institutes. The programs will
be adapted to the new primary school curricula. All pre-service students
wili have a common course during all three years but in the last year will
have an option to specialize for about 40% of the time in general subjects,
foreign language or fine arts.  The 1-year course students will receive
education mainly in Arabic, pedagogy and psychology and specialize in general
subjects or languages.
Lower Secondary Teacher Training Institute
6.10      This item would comprise the provision of equipment and furniture
and the renovation of an existing school building to be used for training
lower secondary school teachers in social science and modern languages.
6.11      During their first two years in the program, students would enroli
in the respective faculties of the Lebanese University to study the subject
matter which they would later teach. In the third year, the last year of the
course, students would be enrolled in the project institute to study pedagogy,
methodology, psychology, and audio-visual aids and to practice teaching
in local lower secondary schools. The training of teachers in foreign lan-
guages and social science will start in provisional facilities in 1972 (para.
3.05) and the students will be transferred to the project school as soon as
the facilities are available.
6.12      The institute would be used dur'-ng weekends and vacation time for
in-service training of directors of education, school inspectors and lower
secondary school teachers of general and practical subjects. These short
courses would concentrate on education policy and the use of new teaching
methods and media. The implementation of the in-service training plan has
been authorized under recently enacted legislation and course programs have
already started.  The plan is that, over a five-year period, all school
administrators and teachers will receive such short in-service training
courses related to the new lower secondary school curriculum.



- 15 -
6.13      During negotiations, the government provided an assurance that
revised curricula for primary education, lower secondary education and primary
teacher training and new curricula developed for lower secondary teacher train-
*            ing (social science and modern languages) will be made available to the Bank
for comments not later than December 31, 1974.
Technical Assistance
6.14      The government intends to reform upper secondary education (para.
4.10). Competent manpower is available in the country to undertake the
necessary studies to accomplish the major burden for planning this reform;
however, some short term specialists' services would be included to assist
the government in this effort. Special attention would be given to the
capacity and content of technical education and related teacher training.
6.15      During negotiations, it was agreed that the following expert services
would be provided within the project for periods ranging up to the following:
Man/Months
(i)  Education planning and administration            8
(ii)  Education economics and manpower                 6
(iii), Technical education                              6
(iv)  Education statistics                             4
Total Man/Months               24
6.16      All experts provided within the project would be agreeable to the
Bank and would be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.



- 16 -
Cost of the Project
6.17      The estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the various
elements of the project are summarized as follows:
Lebanese Pounds (000)       U.S. Dollars (000)
% of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total   To-.
Primary Schools (39)  13,352   7,361   20,713   4,213    2,447   6,660    53.0
Lower Secondary
Schools (24)          8,039   6,718   14,757   2,505    2,240   4,745    38.0
Primary Teacher
Training
Institutes (3)        1,630   1,060    2,690       524       341     865      6.9
Lower Secondary
Teacher Training
Institutes (1)          218      311      529       70       100     170      1.3
Technical Assistance        62     249       311      20        80     100      0.8
Sub-Total  1           23,301  15,699   39,000   7,332    5,208  12,540   100.0
Physical Contin-
gencies               1,919   1,297    3,216       617       417   1,034      8.2
Price Increase          4,151   2,989    7,140   1,335         961   2,296    18.3
Sub-total  2            6,070        4,286   10,356   1,952    1,378   3,330    26.5
Total Project Cost    29,371  19,985   49,356   9,284    6,586  15,870
6.18      A breakdown of projected expenditures is given in Annex 13.  Con-
struction of the school buildings would account for 62% of total project
costs; site development 9%; furniture 9%; equipment 14%; architectural and
engineering services 5%. Technical assistance would account for less than
1% of project cost. Space allowances are well within the range of those for
comparable schools in other Bank Group financed projects, while allowing
necessary flexibility for the adoption of modern teaching methods. Construc-
tion cost at an average of US$59 per square meter is low by world-wide stand-
ards, reflecting austerity of design criteria, relatively low labor costs,
and maximum use of locally produced building materials. Capital costs per
student's place are below the median of similar Bank Group financed project
(Annex 14).
0



- 17 -
6.19      Cost estimates for site development, construction and related pro-
fessional services include contingency allowances of 10% and for equipment
5%, to cover unforeseeable physical requirements. Based upon an average
annual construction price increase of 6% over the past five years, an addi-
tional contingency of 18% would be provided for the period required to com-
plete construction. This percentage would also apply to site development
and related professional services. Furniture costs have increased at the
rate of 6.2% per annum, and equipment at 7%. Applied over the implementation
period, these price increases would amount to about 15% and 16% respectively.
Technical assistance cost escalation is estimated at the combined rate of
about 4% per annum for local and foreign cost requirements, giving a total of
about 6% over the period of these services. Total contingency allowances
would thus amount to 26.5% of estimated project costs without contingencies
or 21% of total costs including the contingencies (Annex 15).
6.20      The foreign exchange component would be about 42%, or approximately
$6.6 million, and has been estimated as follows: (i) civil works, 35%; (ii)
equipment 100%; and technical assistance, 80%.
VII. IMPLEMENTATION
Administration
=          7.01       A Project Unit would be established within the Conseil Executif des
Grands Projects (CEGP) to be responsible for the implementation of the project,
coordination of activities with the Ministries of Education and Public Works,
other government and private bodies, and liaison with the Bank. The CEGP and
Project Unit would have subsequent responsibility for the completion of the
school construction program (Plan de Regroupement), of which the Bank project
forms a part (para. 5.05).
7.02      The Project Unit would consist of:  (i) a project unit director,
who would be responsible directly to the Director of the CEGP; (ii) an architect;
(iii) an educator; (iv) a specialist from the Ministry of Planning; and (v)
a furniture and equipment procurement specialist. The first four officers
would be appointed on a full-time basis in consultation with the Bank. Appoint-
ment of the above officers and the establishment and operation of the Project
Unit, provided with adequate accounting and procurement services, supporting
staff and facilities would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
agreement.
7.03      Educational aspects of the project and the preparation of equip-
.ment lists would be supervised by the Project Unit in close cooperation with
appropriate departments of the Ministry of Education. Design of all schools
and supervision of construction would be performed by consultant architects,
agreeable to the Bank, and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
0



- 18-
Procurement
7.04      Civil works and equipment supply contracts would be awarded under
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Pro-
curement under World Bank loans. The construction industry in Lebanon has
sufficient capacity, and intense competition for civil works contracts is
expected. Local manufacturers submitting preferred domestic bids for equip-
ment would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. costs of
competing imports, or the generally applicable import duty, whichever is
lower. Lebanon has no preferential tariff arrangements with any country.
Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to form sizable bid packages
and to permit bulk procurement. The Project Unit would be responsible for
preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating bids, and awarding the contracts.
Detailed master lists of furniture and instructional equipment would be sub-
mitted for Bank review prior to procurement.
7.05      Project furniture would be purchased on reserved procurement, as
requested by the government, and would not be financed under the proposed
loan. Lebanon has a furniture manufacturing industry adequate to meet the
requirements of the project.
7.06      Of a total of 66 new schools, sites have been designated for 32,
and are presently in the process of acquisition. Thirty-four sites still
remain to be proposed by the local (municipal) authorities, approved by the
CEGP and Ministries of Public Works and Education, and formally acquired.
The government has provided an assurance that all sites, agreeable to the
Bank, will be acquired prior to the scheduled start of construction.
Disbursements
7.07      The proceeds of the proposed loan would finance the foreign ex-
change cost of technical assistance, the CIF cost of imported equipment,
or 100% of ex-factory cost of such equipment if locally manufactured, and
35% of total expenditures for construction and site development, which re-
presents their foreign exchange component. This latter percentage would be
adjusted as required to spread disbursements over the implementation period.
Construction would be completed within three and one-half years of the date
of the loan agreement (Annex 16). The schedule of estimated disbursements is
shown in Annex 17. Utndisbursed funds would be available for reallocation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
Mi)  a new examination system adapted to the new lower
secondary school curricula will be introduced not later
than December 31, 1976 (para. 6.05);



- 19 -
(ii)  curricula for the project schools will be made available
to the Bank for comment not later than December 31, 1974
(para. 6.13);
(iii) technical assistance experts agreeable to the Bank will be
appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to
assist the government in planning reforms of upper secondary
education (paras 6.14 and 6.16); and
(iv)  sites, agreeable to the Bank, for all project institutions
will be acquired prior to the scheduled start of construc-
tion (para. 7.06).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness:
(i) appointment of a full-time Project Director, Project Educator,
Project Architect and specialist from the Ministry of Planning
in consultation with the Bank (para. 7.02); and
(ii)  establishment and operation of an adequately staffed
Project Unit in satisfactory premises (para. 7.02).
8.03      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$6.6 mil-
lion equivalent to the Government of Lebanon for a term of 25 years including
a grace period of five years.  The loan, which would finance foreign exchange
costs, and the ex-factory cost of locally produced equipment, would be equivalent
to about 42% of the estimated project cost.






APPENDIX I
Page 1
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
General
1.        Access to education is guaranteed to all citizens of Lebanon by
law. But the government itself is in charge of only a small part of the
education system. The private sector dominates; in 1971 about 62% of all
students were enrolled in private institutions. The government catered
for only one third of the primary education, less than half of secondary
education and one fourth of higher education. The private schools are
owned by churches, private institutions and private individuals, who run
the schools on a profit making basis.
2.        The students in government schools are almost entirely taught
in privately owned, rented school facilities; 85% of the primary and all
lower secondary school students were taught in privately owned buildings
in 1971. In order to help students from low income families, who cannot
afford high tuition fees, the government gives annual grants, based on
the number of students enrolled, to private schools (prive subventionne)
which thus can give education at reduced fees.
Planning and Administration
3.        Planning of government primary education and secondary academic
and technical education and training are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Education in cooperation with the Ministry of Planning. Other Ministries
have training courses only on a very limited scale. Each of the five
regions of the country has a Regional Planning Office closely attached to
the Ministry of Planning. In this office is integrated a Regional Office of
Education. The Office of Education is the link between the local school
authorities and the Ministry of Education but does not have authority to make
decisions.  All decisions are made in the Ministry of Education.
Supervision
4.        Supervision of government and government-aided primary schools
in the region is carried out by the staff of the Regional Office of
Education, but all supervision of secondary level education is attached
to the Ministry of Education.  The supervision system does not cover
private schools.
Strategy for Educational Development
5.        The long term development of education as reflected in the 6 Year
Plan 1972-77 and policy statements by the Minister of Education calls for:
(i)  consolidation of government primary and secondary education
m                    and more efficient use of teachers and school facilities;



APPENDIX I
Page 2
(ii)  gradual transfer a larger share of responsibility for primary
and secondary education from the private to the government
sector;
(iii) introduction of 10 year basic comprehensive education for all
children within the framework of a 6-year primary and a 4-year
lower secondary course;
(iv) reform and coordination of all second level academic and
technical education;
(v) improvement of teacher training for primary level education,
introduction of teacher training for lower secondary education,
and expansion and improvement of teacher training for academic
and technical education on upper secondary level;
(vi) introduction of the use of new media in education; and
(vii) reform of the administrative system on central and local levels,
and introduction of an institution for continuous educational
research and development of the education system.
6.        No fixed period of time has been determined for the implementation
of the above long-term policy.  However, part of it is already under imple-
mentation in accordance with the 6-year development plan 1972-77. A
rationalization plan (Plan de Regroupement) for primary and lower secondary
level education has been established as a first step. The Plan calls for
total enrollments to expand to 95% and 65% of the primary and lower secondary
age group respectively from 1972-80. During the period 1972-80, 225,000
primary and 197,000 lower secondary school places will be constructed of
which the Bank project would form a part. 65% of the new primary school
places and all the new lower secondary school places will replace rented
facilities. The present teacher-pupil ratio of 1:18 in rented facilities
will be improved to about 1:30 in the new lower secondary schools and 1:35
in primary schools and create substantial savings in rents and more efficient
use of teachers. Planning and reform of upper secondary level education will
start soon.
Administrative Reform
7.        Three directorates of the Ministry of Education administer different
levels and types of education. However, an administrative reform is under
discussion and is planned to follow the reform of the primary and lower
secondary school system. With the introduction of a comprehensive type of
school there will be need to divide the different departments according to
function. The full administrative reform will come when the comprehensive
curricula have been in effect for some time, and a better judgment can be
made from experience concerning organization of the Ministry and consequently
of the regional and local administration.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
8.        The reform of the education system, however, will create demand
for continuous planning, evaluation and revision of activities. For that
reason, the Educational Center for Research and Development was established
in consultation with Unesco in April 1972. The Center is administered by a
department of the Ministry of Education and Fine Arts. Coordination between
the Center and the educational administration of the Ministry is carried out
through an Advisory Committee composed of the Director of the Center and the
other department heads in the Ministry. The Committee, which is under the
Chairmanship of the Minister of Education, gives opinions on the decisions
of the Center, when requested by the Minister or submits recommendations
concerning work connected to the functions of the Center.
9.        The Center deals with questions concerning overall policy and
planning of all education except university education. It also collaborates
with other institutions working in the field of planning related to education.
More specifically the Center will deal with continuous revision and evalua-
tion of curricula and examinations, development of school standards and
equipment, development of educational documentation such as teachers' manuals
and other documentation to support a successful implementation of the reform
measures.
10.       The Center has already developed close links with the teacher
training institutions. The Center is expected to have an impact on the re-
form of the country's education development and successful implementation
of the reform plans.
The Structure
11.       The school system provides for five years of primary education,
normally beginning at the age of six. Most students spend 1-3 years in
pre-primary education before entering the primary schools. General secondary
education is offered in a 4-year lower and a 3-year upper cycle. Secondary
technical education and training is offered mainly on upper level in courses
of up to four years. Higher education is offered in universities in courses
of normally 4-5 years and in teacher training and technical institutions.
Primary Education
12.       Primary schools enrolled about 515,000 students in 1971 of which
about 193,000 (37%) were in government schools, 164,000 (32%) in private
schools and 158,000 (31%) in government aided private schools. 109.5% of
the age-group 5-10 years was enrolled; of that about 31% are estimated to
be above the relevant age group. The low efficiency of primary education
is evident by the fact that only about 65% of the students complete their
education. A student spends as an average twelve years in school to complete
the 5 year course. The percentage of overaged students is expected to de-
crease during the 70's partly because increasing numbers of children tend
to start school at normal age, partly also because the tests which students



APPENDIX I
Page 4
earlier had to pass every year and the primary school final examination
after grade 6 were abolished two years ago. The primary system is now
geared to automatic promotion even if the student capacity does not at present
allow for a full implementation of this approach. The majority of the govern-
ment primary schools accommodate 100 to 200 students and the private schools
300 to 400 students. The language of instruction is Arabic, but there are
private schools which use French or English. The curricula are academic in
content. The teaching methods are as a rule traditional, partly depending
on the fact that only a small proportion of the teachers have adequate
training but also because of inadequate school facilities. The government
plans to introduce new curricula, which are already available in draft
form. They will include French or English as a second language and modern
mathematics and will give more attention to natural science and other environ-
mental oriented subjects. The intention is to give education, xwhich will
better serve both students who terminate their education after primary
education for employment and those who continue to further education or
training on secondary level.
13.       By 1980, projections are that about 95% of the relevant age group
will be enrolled in primary education. The planned development of enrollment
during 1971-80 is shown in the following table:
1971                      1980                        _
No.         %             No.         _____
Primary Level
Public                 192,518      37.4         340,000        54.3
Private Aided          158,455      30.8         165,000        26.4
Private Non-Aided      163,729      31.8         121,000        19.3
Total             514,702    100.0          626,000       100.0
% Age-group Enrolled                78.5                        95.0
(excluding 31% over aged)
Lower Secondary Education
14.       Lower secondary education enrolled 128,600 students in 1971; which
represented 50% of the age-group 11-14 years.  51.6% of the students were
enrolled in government general and 45.5% in private general education.
About 15% of the students were estimated to be overaged. The average
enrollment,of the government and private schools was about 250 students.
The basic language of instruction is Arabic but in many schools science
is taught in English and social science and mathematics in French. The
curricula are academic in content and oriented to further academic studies.
About 65% of primary school leavers entered lower secondary education in



APPENDIX I
Page 5
1970. The dropout rate appears to be low. About four students out of five
complete the 4-year course and almost all lower secondary school graduates
continue to upper secondary education of different kind and length. The
efficiency, however, is not as good as it appears in statistical terms
because of repetition. A lower secondary school student needs 6.5 years as
an average to complete the four year course.
15.       Lower secondary education is offered to about 56,000 of the
government students in primary schools. These schools are called "ecoles
complementaires" and are in many cases badly equipped and lacking laboratories.
The teaching is done in most schools by primary school teachers lacking
adequate teacher training for the secondary level. About 9,000 of the
government school students are taught in upper secondary schools by the
upper level teachers. There is an obvious difference in quality of education
between the "ecoles complementaires" and lower secondary education offered
in the upper secondary schools even if the curricula are the same. With the
growth of enrollments on upper secondary level, the 9,000 student places now
occupied by lower level students will gradually be taken over by upper level
students. The same thing will happen in primary schools where the places now
occupied by lower secondary schools students will be taken over by primary
school students. Lower secondary school curricula and the examination system
are under revision and will be introduced as soon as suitable school facilities
are available. The curricula will include a broad common core of academic
and optional practical subjects. They will provide a better base of general
education for all students in order to make them more adaptable to further
training and employment needs and to help them defer decisions on career and
study programs to a later age. Guidance and councelling services will be
offered to the students on lower secondary level so as to assist the students
in the choice of courses appropriate to their abilities and future prospects.
16.       The government plans to enroll about 65% of the age group 11-14
years in lower secondary education by 1980.  The planned development of
enrollments is shown in the following table:
1971                      1980
No.         %             No.            %
Lower Secondary
Public                  65,150      52.7          197,000        67.4
Private                 58,487      47.3           95,300        32.6
Total             123,637    100.0          292,300       100.0
% Age-group Enrolled                35.0                        65.0
(excluding 15% over aged)



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Upper Secondary Education
17.       Upper secondary education enrolled about 53,300 students in 1971
equivalent to about 32% of the age group 15-17 years.  At this level there
were general secondary schools, technical schools and primary teacher train-
ing institutes. 71% of the students were enrolled in private institutions.
Of the total enrollments 26% were enrolled in technical education.  Both
academic and technical schools are overly academic and traditional in content
promoting psychologically an orientation by all students towards white collar
work. Technical education facilities are under expansion but no firm plans
as to the use of the facilities are available.
18.       In 1971 general secondary schools enrolled about 36,200 students
equivalent to about 22% of the age group 11-14 years. About 70% of the
students attended private schools and the rest government insitutions. As
in the case of the lower secondary schools, Arabic is the language of
instruction but English and French are frequently used for teaching in
subjects like science and social science in order to better prepare the
students for future functions in the Lebanese society and for higher education.
19.       Revision of the curricula, which are academic in content, is needed
and this will be still more necessary after the introduction of new curricula
on lower levels.  For that reason, and as a second step following reform of
primary and lower secondary level curricula, the government intends to re-
form curricula on upper general secondary level as a part of the overall
reform of upper secondary education.
20.       The enrollments in public technical secondary schools under the
Ministry of Education have increased rapidly during the recent years. At
present, there are about 2,400 students in 13 schools, but the total
capacity is 3,500 student places. Moreover, 2,450 student places are under
construction in seven new schools or extensions.
21.       Vocational or lower secondary technical schools offer two-year
technical courses leading to CAP 1/ or BP 2/. In 1971-72, there were about
800 students in seven schools, mostly at BP-level. These courses are not
very popular and therefore they are being gradually phased out; CAP courses
were already discontinued in 1971 in all public technical schools except
in Hermel where the low educational level of the students does not yet
justify BP courses.
22.       At the upper secondary level, the former 4-year course, leading to
the diploma of "Baccalaureat Technique", was divided in 1967 into two parts
of two years' duration, called BT1 3/ and BT2 4/. In 1971-72 there were
1/   CAP = Certificat d'Aptitudes Professionnelles (Grades 6-7)
2/   BP  = Brevet Professionnel                       (Grades 8-9)
3/   BT1 - Baccalaureat Technique lere Partie         (Grades 10-11)
4/   BT2 = Baccalaureat Technique 2 eme Partie        (Grades 12-13)                         _



APPENDIX I
Page 7
about 1,800 students in eleven schools, two-thirds of them at BT1 level.
Almost 90% of the successful graduates from BT1 level continue their studies
at BT2 level. In order to reduce the pressure on BT2 course, a new terminal
3-year course, called FPM 1/ was introduced in 1971 parallel to the BT1
course, to give academically less gifted students more practical training.
It is expected that about 80% of the students will take the FPM course and
only 20% will continue to BT2 courses.
23.       Technical upper secondary schools are normally well equipped, but
too little time is devoted to practical training. Therefore, the training
programs do not adequately prepare the students for employment in industry
and construction, where shortages of technical skills are most acute. Most
students consider technical schools as another avenue of education in which
they prefer to stay as long as possible.
24.       The private technical secondary education, which is mainly com-
mercial, is by large part not controlled by the government, although the
institutions have to respect the official programs, and the students have
to take the examinations organized by the Directorate of the Technical and
Vocational Education in order to receive the official'diploma. The schools
are not allowed to issue any certificates of their own. In 1971-72 there
were 275 private technical schools with a total enrollment of over 16,000,
but only about 800 students passed the government examinations.  No information
is available on the level and the length of the courses.
25.       The Technical Secondary School of Agriculture at Fanar, under the
Ministry of Agriculture, offers 3-year courses in Agronomy and Animal
Husbandry. The annual intake is 30 students. Of the graduates, 70% work for
or collaborate with the Ministry of Agriculture or the autonomous agricultural
offices, 5% work in the agro-business, 15% work in the private sector and
10% continue their studies in universities abroad.
26.       The Ministry of Agriculture operates also three Agricultural
Vocational Schools, which offer practical courses of ten and a half months'
duration. The total enrollment is about 120.
Primary Teacher Training
27.       Seven primary teacher training institutes offer a 3-year course
on upper secondary level. In 1971 the enrollment was 3,200 and the output
about 750. The teacher:pupil ratio was 1:18. Five of the institutions
had rented inadequate facilities whilst two institutions were government
owned and of acceptable quality. The rented low quality facilities will be
replaced by three new institutions. The number of primary teacher training
institutions would thus be five by end of about 1977 offering 3-year pre-
service courses and 1-year upgrading courses for unqualified teachers.
@         1/   FPM  - Formation Professionnelle de Maitrise (Grades 10-12)



APPENDIX I
Page 8
28.       The existing teacher training capacity is sufficient in terms of
numbers but inadequate in quality for primary school teachers to teach in
a reformed primary school program. For that reason the government intends
to introduce new revised curricula in the teacher training institutes as
soon as adequate facilities are available. The new curricula will be related
to the reformed primary school curriculum and thus include foreign languages,
more science and better instruction on teaching methods and the use of new
media. The students in the 3-year course will have a common core of subjects
during all three years, but will in grade three have an option to specialize
for 40% of the time in general subjects, foreign languages or fine arts..
29.       In 1970 about 3,300 or about 40% of all primary school teachers
were qualified. The total number of teachers needed in government schools
by 1980 will be about 11,000, a net increase of about 6,800. 92% of the
teachers would be qualified by 1980.
Lower General Secondary Teacher Training
30.       There was no special teacher training program organized for
teachers in lower general secondary schools until 1971. In 1971 about
1,000 teachers in lower secondary schools were considered qualified;
equivalent to about 25%. These teachers were also qualified for teaching
at upper secondary level and did part of their teaching in upper secondary
schools.
31.       In 1971 the government in cooperation with UNDP/Unesco started
a 3-year third level program for training of science teachers in the old
facilities of the Faculty of Science of the Lebanese University. This
program is expected to meet the demand for about 1,500 science teachers by
1980. Training of about 3,000 teachers for social science and languages
is also needed over the same period and will start in provisional facilities
during 1972. These teacher trainees will devote their first two years to
professional study of subjects in which they later will teach. The third
year will be devoted to pedagogy, methodology, psychology, audiovisual aids
and other subjects related to practical teaching activities as well as applied
teaching in lower secondary schools. The curricula for lower secondary
teacher training will be designed to prepare the trainees for work in the
reformed lower secondary schools.
32.       By 1980 about 65% of the teachers in general subjects would be
trained considering planned expansion of enrollments and teacher training
programs.
UpDer SecondarV Teacher Training
33.       Teachers in upper secondary schools have a university degree and
teacher training carried out in short courses by the universities. Less
than 25% of the teachers in upper general secondary schools are estimated to
have some kind of teacher training.  The teacher training at this level



APPENDIX I
Page 9
will be-in accordance with the government's overall strategy for reform of
the secondary school system - expanded and organized in a national system
related to the need of the school system.
Technical Teacher Training
34.       The Institut Pedagogique National de l'Education Technique (IPNET)
was established in 1964 with the technical assistance from UNDP/Unesco.
Unfortunately, the enrollment and the output of this insitute remained much
less than foreseen in the Plan of Operation because of the complicated and
slow procedure involved in recruiting students. Only 47 new technical
teachers graduated from the two-year courses between 1965 and 1969, and
44 existing teachers participated in short-term in-service training courses.
Finally the lack of students led to closing of IPNET in 1969.
35.       In 1971 there were 186 full-time and 460 part-time teachers in the
government technical schools. The part-time teachers were equivalent to
about 180 full time. About 50% of the full-time teachers were adequately
trained. IPMET will be reopened in 1972 in order to make an effort to meet
additional need for teachers in the existing institutions and the institutions
under construction. The total number of teachers needed when the schools
under construction are in full operation by 1975 is estimated to be about 700.
Higher Education
36.       Beirut is the center for higher education in the Middle East.
The number of students enrolled was 41,700 in 1971; 19,650 or 47% were
Lebanese representing 8.6% of the age group 18-22 years. In addition
about 6,000 Lebanese students were enrolled in universities abroad. The
government caters for 11,688 students or about 28% of the enrollments in
Lebanese institutions. About 28% of the students were enrolled in technical,
science and science related faculties.
37.       The Technical Institute and the Tourism Institute are both located
in the former technical teacher training institute. The Technical Institute
offers two-year courses at post-secondary level and has an enrollment of
about 100 students in engineering. The first group of 20 Higher Technicians
(Technicien Superieur) graduated in 1971 and had difficulties in finding
suitable employment, as the government had not fixed their salaries as com-
pared to the engineers' salaries. The Tourism Institute, which started in
1971 as an UNDP/ILO project, gives 2-3 year courses at upper secondary and
post-secondary levels. It has about 100 students, but the enrollment is
expected to reach 250. Seven private post-secondary technical schools have
a total enrollment of about 500, mainly in Accountancy and Management.
Non-Formal Education
38.       Non-formal vocational training is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Labor, which established a National Vocational Training Center



APPENDIX I
Page 10
in 1961 with the technical assistance from UNDP/ILO and in cooperation
with the Association of Lebanese Industrialists. Since 1964, the Center has
been located in the workshops of the School of Arts and Trades. It has
five sections: General Mechanics, Welding, General Electricity, Industrial
Electricity and Watchmaking. The duration of training is 5 months except
in watchmaking, which is one year. So far the Center has trained 1,117
workers; about 8% of them were employed workers and 92% unemployed youths,
all of whom have been employed after training. The number of applications
is about double the intake. A new vocational training center is planned
to be established later at Cheka, about 20 kilometers south of Tripoli.
There is also a plan to organize short-term upgrading courses in the exist-
ing technical schools, but it is not yet clear how the responsibilities
would be divided between the Ministries of Education and Labor.
Radio and Television
39.       Mass media are not used for educational purposes more than on an
ad hoc basis. However, Lebanon has, with its well developed television
infrastructure covering practically the whole country, possibilities to
introduce the use of mass media in education at low cost. The government
is therefore considering introducing mass media as a means of instruction
and for introducing the new curricula at primary and lower secondary levels
and for in-service training of teachers. However, no plans are available
so far.



APPENDIX II
Page 1
EDUCATION COSTS AND FINANCES
General
1.        Lebanon's total expenditure on education and training amounts to
7.4% of GDP (1971). Private resources account for 54% and public sources,
-            predominantly the Central Government, finance the rest of this outlay.  The
amount of external financing, except for private university education, is
negligible.
Private Finance
2.        That 63% of all primary and 55% of all secondary students attend
private religious and non-denominational schools indicates further the
importance of privately sponsored education in Lebanon. Roman Catholic
schools cater for 43% of all private school pupils; other denominations,
mainly Moslem, cater for 18% and private profit-making interests cater for
the remaining 39%.
3.        All private schools charge tuition, which is their main source
of recurrent financing. Capital financing, for the denominational schools,
is derived from the denominations' own resources. 50% of the pupils attend-
ing private primary schools, who cannot afford to pay the usual fees, pay
lesser amounts and their schools receive an annual subsidy from the govern-
ment that is currently fixed at LL90 per pupil.  This grant covers about
40% of teachers' salaries. Most of these subsidized, private primary
schools are owned and operated by the Roman Catholic Church and the others
are owned and run by non-denominational interests.
4.        The tuitions charged by private schools have increased rapidly
since 1960. As a result, increasing numbers of parents have been forced to
send their children to the less expensive, government subsidized, private
primary schools, and enrollment in the latter grew from less than a quarter
to one half of total private primary enrollments during 1960-1971. In-
creases in tuition have also resulted in mounting demands being placed upon
the government to expand its own provision of free, public education both
at the primary and at the lower secondary levels.
5.        Private school fees are high.  They range from LE251 (US$81) p.a.
to LI630 (US$203) for the primary grades (in non-aided schools), from
LL362 (US$116) to LU825 (US$265) for the lower secondary and from LB551
(US$117) to L1000 (US$322) for the upper secondary level. In addition
to these fees there are associated costs, borne by private households, of
student transport, textbooks, schools meals, etcetera.  Studies by both
government and private education authorities clearly indicate that, with
its present fee structure and enrollments, the private sector now covers
at primary and secondary levels that segment of the population who can afford
to pay the annual fees and associated costs of private schooling. For
this reason, it is unlikely that private education could enroll in the



APPENDIX II
Page 2
future greater proportions of Lebanon's primary and lower secondary age
groups that it enrolls now.
Public Finance
6.        Over 80% of public expenditure on education and training consists
of recurrent outlays made by the Ministry of Education.  But the Ministry
is not responsible for school construction which is undertaken by the
Ministry of Public 1Works. Contributions made by municipalitles, for school
building rental payments and for furniture and equipment, are relatively
insignificant.
7.        Government primary schools are free, but Government secondary
schools charge a nominal, annual fee of LL31 (US$10). Pupils attending these
schools pay for their own transport, textbooks and school supplies. Voca-
tional and technical education, as well as primary teacher training, are
provided free of charge by the Government, except that a small number of
boarding students in technical schools pay nominal fees. The Lebanese
University charges modest student fees, while over 75% of its recurrent
budget and all of its capital program are financed by the Central Government.
8.        To ensure that primary and lower secondary enrollment targets
for the period 1972-1980 are met, in view of the private sector's limited
capacity for expansion, the Government plans to cater for all of the expansion            0
involved at the primarv level and for 79% of targeted expansion at the lower
secondary level. It plans, in addition, to absorb up to 11% of primary
students enrolled in the private sector, many of whom attend low quality,
Government subsidized schools. However, the Government also faces financial
constraints on its capacity to expand enrollments.
9.        The Government accommodates 85% of its primary and all of its lower
secondary students in rented facilities, often at exhorbitant prices. Most of
the rented facilities are too inadequate to per-mit teacher/pupil ratios greater
than 1:18; hence, the average ratio is 1:23 for the public primary level as a
whole and 1:18 for the lower secondary level. This factor, combined with in-
creases in rents, in teachers' salaries (which represent over 70% of recurrent
costs) and in administrative expenses, have driven up recurrent costs per pupil
in public primary and lower secondary schools to a high level.
Annual Recurrent Costs Per Pupil to Government
1968           1971           Rate of Growth p.a.
LE     US$     Ll     US$             1968 - 1971
Primary                   230       73    331      102                11.8%
Lower Secondary           312       99    439      136                11.0%
10.       Recurrent outlays on primary and lower secondary education absorb
over 50% and 20% respectively of the Ministry of Education's total expenditures.



APPENDIX II
Page 3
Due to the high recurrent costs of primary and lower secondary schooling,
together with enrollment growth and a sharp increase (14.6% p.a.) in the
amount of subsidy per student paid to private primary schools, the Ministry
of Education's total expenditures increased by 253% from 1962 to 1971 (Annex
7). This was considerably faster than the increase in Government enrollments
at these two levels during the same period. Total expenditures by the Central
Government as a whole rose by only 7.2% p.a. over the same period; as a re-
sult, the percentage share of education outlays in total Central Government
expenditures rose from 11% to 21% (Annex 7).
11.       If public enrollments were allowed to expand to the levels targeted
for 1980, and if the Ministry of Education were to continue accommodating its
primary and lower secondary school pupils in rented facilities, 40% of the
Government's recurrent budget would be needed in 1980 to meet the Ministry's
recurrent expenditures (Annex 9). The Government will not be able to allocate
this much of its recurrent budget to education. Even with additional resources
acquired from improvements to the direct tax system, which have already been
initiated, the Government would not have sufficient resources to finance
either its planned expansions or the future development of public education
at higher levels unless it could place its primary and lower secondary school-
ing on a more economical basis than at present.
_   "Plan de Regroupement"
12.       The Government has based its planned expansion in public primary
and lower secondary enrollments on a systematic rationalization of school
plant ("Plan de Regroupement"). The "Plan" consists of constructing and
equipping new schools of a larger, more economical size, which for the most
part will replace rented facilities. The location of these new schools has
been carefully planned so as to develop an economical configuration of school
facilities throughout Lebanon. Four hundred new primary and 295 new lower
secondary schools will be built under this program during 1972-1980, many of
them in rural areas. They will provide 225,000 new primary school places,
of which 65% will replace rented space, and 197,000 new lower secondary places
all of which will replace rented facilities (Annex 8).
13.       As a result of this program, the proportion of Government primary
school students housed in rented facilities will be reduced from 85% to 40%
by 1977 and to 25% by 1980. From 1977 onward, none of the Government's lower
secondary school pupils will be accommodated in rented facilities. Further-
more, the program will allow for school facilities to be centralized within
the catchment areas, for teacher/pupil ratios to improve up to 1:35 in pri-
mary and to 1:30 in lower secondary schools, for more efficient use to be
made of teachers and for considerable savings to be realized in rents. Con-
sequently, by 1980 the annual recurrent cost per pupil to Government will be
substantially lower than the cost per pupil of catering for the same enrol-
lments in rented facilities.



APPENDIX II
Page 4
Annual Recurrent Costs Per Pupil to Government in 1980 (Lb)
Primary            Lower Secondary5
Costs as Result of
"Plan de Regroupement"                      387                   409 /1
Costs of Catering for same
Enrollment in Rented Facilities             616                    742
/1   This unit cost is actually less than the overall cost of LE439 per
lower secondary school pupil in 1971 for the following reason:  although
most lower secondary school pupils in 1971 attended primary and lower
secondary schools, some of them (15%) attended secondary schools where
the cost per pupil at the lower secondary level was LE614.
About 76% of the difference between the costs of catering for these students
in the new schools and in rented facilities represents savings in direct
teacher costs and approximately 24% represents savings in rents. The new
recurrent costs resulting from the "Plan", moreover, will allow for a higher
calibre of teaching staff, increased allocations for didactic materials and
supplies and for other qualitative improvements.  Finally, as a result of
the "Plan de Regroupement", by 1980 the Government will be able to save
approximately LE144 million (US$46.3 million) per annum in recurrent outlays
for primary and lower secondary education (Annex 9).
14.       The proposed Bank project would assist the Government in the initial
phase of implementing its "Plan de Regroupement". The project would include
39 new primary and 24 new lower secondary schools, comprising 14% and 7% of
the new enrollment capacity to be built for these two levels respectively under
the "Plan" by 1980. The project schools would be the first to be built under
the "Plan" and would be located to serve as model schools for the programming,
planning, construction and equipping of the other new schools in the rational-
ization program. Furthermore, the proposed project would contribute to over-
all savings to be realized under the "Plan".
15.       The value of investing in the proposed project schools is clearly
evident in terms of the possible return on this investment. For example,
the difference between the costs (capital and recurrent) of catering for
24,240 primary school students in the 32 project primary schools that will
replace rented facilities and in rented facilities represents the financial
benefits that would result from the project (Annex 11). On this basis, the
rate of financial return, over investment cost, to the Government on the proj-
ect's 32 primary schools that would replace Government rented faciltiies would
be 21.5% over a 15-year period (Annex 10).



APPENDIX II
Page 5
Projected Public Expenditures (Annex 12)
16.       Public sector expenditures on education and training are expected
to grow from LE180 million in 1971 to about LE431 million i'n 1980. Outlays
on education by the Central Government will increase from LU161 million to
LU386 million over this period, i.e. at 10.2% p.a. in real terms. By 1980,
recurrent expenditures on education by the Central Government are expected
to absorb about 24% of current Government revenue and 26% of the total re-
current outlays made by the Central Government. Whereas in the past, capital
expenditures seldom amounted to more than 4% of the Central Government's an-
nual expenditure on education, they will amount to over 10% per annum during
the forecast period. Of the LU314.4 million in capital funds to be invested
by 1980, LU276 million will be spent on the "Plan de Regroupement", mostly
during 1972 through 1977, and the rest will finance new facilities for tech-
nical and academic education at the upper secondary level. The total invest-
ment in education will represent 21% of the Central Government's overall in-
vestment program during 1972 through 1980. The percentage share of education
in the total Central Government budget by 1980 will be 25%.
17.       The preceeding forecast of expenditures on education is based on the
following assumptions: (a) that the "Plan de Regroupement" will be carried
out on schedule (b) that enrollment targets for primary and lower secondary
education will be met and (c) that upper secondary enrollment in Government
schools will not exceed 30,000 by 1980, given the need to plan carefully the
reform and modernization of education at that level before providing for
rapid expansion.
0






Educa.tion Prulote te-art.e.                                                                                                              ANNU  I
CiMPARATIVE - EDUCATION INDLCATOIIS
Pablic  % of COP   o~%  f Total1                                                        Se...ndary F              Annea  Cu-tou
GOP/Capita;  Lite..acy   Educatio    Devo..ted to        Public                                              Secondary      Stadeuts  I ilighet         from  Highe
Population it facto   i    bate    F.reodit-tn   Edction  Eediu.s. Prissay                        P'ctnuy    oecon.duy    Enrothesot           pe     Enrollment        Education
Y-  ~ ~        ~ cotPer  eCcait    (hlin                                 Devoted to  E-c1i1on        StudnsErlmn                     o        Tuhr             i               o
(Millions     (Constant   (%  f            (Machot   E pondious        -ducttu      Ratio            e           Rato       Vctoa.fl-im                 giutr             0.
US $9                       us)                                 J.jtsseito..                                                                             _____
Cunpeetinedu...ticn dnne see  onefu1 is the  ADVANCE                                           9          I             ,9              97                          .                        92                           S6                         27 
meatoof v-n-o  ed-ntitn nYten  and             SA-tiri                                                                                                                                         I             I   .    9  44'6            1    1            24 
ihe ntalytis of      . rEasv   nta5eo.    dotoo O d                                            9         1.           2,A20P          91           265 C          7.2          10 6 C       99            26             51 TN          2                          926
=culp.sou  honceo  v-riou.s. .onotee.   DoR-   Oeomy, Fedoe1 itpuhlit                          68       160.8 E        2,315F          99           853.59                                  99            32              615                        22                          4 
evr   ntho hanin of tho preseat data, cone    Jeen69                                               102.3          i,0             950C                       3.0          20.5         99            20             90C           20           21      j     21            30
tatiunnl nonpacicoos Ehonid, ho  .. ap ahad    Netherand                                65         12.9E         1i57 30F P     93      .   J54             17.          23.3         99            31             64      I    SC    I       20             0C           20684A
nihgetcuio.   Otto presenid in nhe           MN.  Zeland                              70          2.80        2,209           ...           90 C          4.6         1463          9             3)             71      I     ...     I    19            21           lt
by thn tank nien             B rmgvesso_   sucs    Snoden                                     69          0.0          2841P           99          2Sf0D          7.           14.6         99 1          16             75            34            1i           i0            lao
the reide  er  stoU   etln.ot-ot    dote             United Kingdom                           69        55.5          1,831 1U        97            94            5.8         13.0          98            29             58            SC           10            16           19 
.ro..n.c.   Efd    re   ay  been  nod  to          U.S.A.                                   68       213.2Et        4,1000PF        9            229 C          4.0          13.1         97            26             ElD.                       20            ..53
tu  hc th e  ccray of the date.  Enter               EUROPE 
theln1   suc...h doa t.  -   til IIIprf-c  in         1.  Greece                              69          8.7            055F         020C          23            2.2          11.7         99            33             5 3           15            3i           122            9
e    -eo   np-ct  and tho Bnnk is nurking        2.  Irsiand                              69         2.9          i.067FP         98            50           4.8          11.4    . 95                33            56 TC         21C           17            12 I3        13
in improve then progrensivey on tho                  3.  Spein                                 70        24.0            822           940          20            2.6          12.31        91            35             29            220           30           19              i
uoeaof ice upeeetiuoel o-k.  In Ste 
ne   f these date, thu fullomig quolift-           APREC 
c-titu  ehauld he home. in  d:                       4.  AleIe                                 70        15.1      I     266           25t          35           10.3          20.0         2142                                       22            20            6              6
5.  Cuneoot70                                       5.9            153                         6            3.0          20.0         714           40                           23            25             4             7
1)  nEduri ... i.  un defin-d i.thn.             6.C. A. R.                               70         1.5            124           ..             5           4.0          20.0          73XI          64             .4 x         to            30             -
teble  tncde  oil oduteti_n end itSni5,              7.  Chad                                  70         3.6             90            735O                      4.53R        14.53D       33            22              2             1           30            . ..           .
f-1ne  end  no-fnome;                                8.     nn1270                                        0.9            212           501           4            5.8         15.1          90X                    J     13            10           28
9.  Ectnpl.                             20        24.0             66                          2           4.0F P        0. o         17            51              5            2            34            104
2)  'Primary  edonat I      seeto                12. Ouhuc                                68         O.SF           297F          JUO           10330                     15.C33 '7 C   75           4Vt            11            18            iSEO
edctiun an the  first total end  s7odc' 11   hn0                                                        8.5            184         ...            i             4.2          i.7          745           29              8             4           is            is             1
edctiurfenn  ohedcaio    t the              i2. Et-"  Cc..et                         60        14.9Et          2453P          9 A         10            4.'2C        20.4          44           48       j                    8            23                           "
ecnay  evlreadises of type lo.              17  Kcy                                  68        10.9 0          135FP         30             7           6.V          18.4          65            32             8             2            22            29              5 A
general,  teohnicei, agriculncrui);     1~~~~~~4. Lihecie                        70          1.3           267           158                         5.7          1.7          50 0         3               121           6            16            12 C9C
15. Mtuoc                               70         15.5            216           20            9            4.19N        17.4         54            35             12             3           22             3              7A
3)  'V-ctionel  odutetion (Ccl. tO)              1I. Nigecia                              71        60.0            104FP          .             3P          3.2 5.                     34x                           4 21                      25            I6
inie.ldscntiin tei  teohtial, co-                    17.  onni69                                          3.8            165F          10Ol                       3.           20.1         42X           46              812205208A
mercial, egoicuitnoel, ouca~tione1 ad         18.ti.te  Loans                          68         2.5Ef          160FP          7YVA          4            2.9         i9.5 C        32            30             13            27C          25            17              7C
h=oms.-sonio corss                                    1.taie                                   71         2.8             49 0          5             1             .           6.                        30              2             5           00            27              0 
20. Oda                                 68         15.8G0          100F P4 .                     A A         5.3         22.0R0       31X           486A    .       2 A           3 C          127A         23 3           11 C
4)  aLi-eray coE'(Ccl. 3) oo                     21. Tae a60                                        12.6             tUP          1                            .0V        10.9          35           30 C             2            6C           2i             2             0 
uenaily uhininod  (con couuity coneuse.. In  22. EUda                                70          9.5           123           23 A           6            3.  N        4.360        4  toE5  0                       l        i              101                   
maycuties thyreoly a oiain                     23. Zaire                                70         18.0             04          13             8            5.7N 0       I09           8            464             020'                      24            18              2
odit is donhtul that ecy taifors deti              14. lonhln                               60         4.0U           262?          41 A          20            6.2         il.0          840           56             1             5            2222
sIatoIy;                                             C,  AR50ICA AND  CARIBBEAN1
23.  RuiiceSpbhlic                      68          410E           274F1        53             60           2.9FP        17.0         s0            56       j     17             1            26           1016C
5)  tPbl.~f   npendinnoc iood-ctioou             26. El Soload-                           69         3.4            261FP         49  TA        tO BV         3.0 I       25.4 CO       63 C         31       ~      13           32E0          . ..          15 C            7 
(C.,_e   4 oaf 6) refore to all cepinel sod          27. Guntent1.6                                      5.0B           345F          38 TA         6            2.35I        17.6         42            38              6            22            26            18             6
ocuren       t...ince  devotd to edon..tion    28. Jemica                               69          1.9           555F          86            24            4.4          19.1         060           52             43            9 A          19            . .            l
by  bhiic and .q _st-vhinonnin;                      29. Htnino                               70         40.4            605          74            i8            2.6          17.14        71            46             19            23 C         25            26 i2
3U.Nliloerag                             69         1.9            3t9F P        55                         2.4          i9.0         80            36             12             0            23           28C            15
63 "onroilme.n ration0  (Cuban   7 audi9)    31. Trinidad aud Toao71                                 1.0            836 P         90           40            3.1          i8.9          95            35            49            LI            25            i9              4
refe  to school Yer uud  -ea  the p-r -gnou
of eligible ohildoe-  -aolld toll-tino  ic           ISPEH AMERICA
the app-poic-    hto,1  pulic an  private            32. Beaui                                69         92.2            272FP        635D ]        10            3.2          14.0         64            31             16            12           ...            SC            2C
by los.Te   t   fe    uj_t toa .id                   33. Chite                                69          9.6            48  P        9             302           5.4900 9A                                              35            31           3              8C4 
tarin of error  in the develpin   coatois           34. CoOnbia                              68         20.3 E          206FP        73A           12            4.0          13.6BN       70            40             21            22 C         i3            29C            31
oIng tuvrannsin th   cnrc    f besic   35. nud-r                                              68          5.9 E          238FP        608A           a0V          3.2 '7       2i.5 C       71            36             18            29D           1 3A         29 C           2C
doo(.e    u-np-ifio purulation  cod            36. Guyan                                68         0.7E           327F P         3a          i                                            X. 44 0   35A           18C            3 C          28              
ecrohoets). Eucu1lont figurEs foeque..tiy         37. Porony                                0          2.4            232          79             5            2.2           6.3         890           26             187XR          5            15            2             1A
too highe,  than the v-bh-  of stud-e                38. te....-Io                            70         il.6           986           Si            45            4.9          12.0         80            33             35            32           12            iS             5
ectneliy in ochuol.  Ovtetgedetudenta abase
inclusio thinidicsted hy fontuetonoln..ce.    ASIA
inloeth time.                                 39.. Ohlon. (Tainen)                     21        14.6            310FP         73            15           4.2          19.0          98FP          52FP          50r P16Fp                   35 P          27F P2
40.India                                 71~   547.1               105F          2 9            31 _M2.6 Ai              ....          79 I         43 A           28XI           6 AT         20 AT         11 AT         52 AY
41. 1ed...sia                           70        i24.2G0          112           63 A           2           ...          16.0          71X I        40             13X           21            lit          15 C
42. Iran                         ~~~       ~~~~~71  29.     33  P         37            i            3.1          10.0          63           33             233                         34            23            41P
43. Iraq                                70          94             301           26           i9            6.1          16.3         64.           22             25             3           26             17            80
44. joran70                                         2.2            267          95 A          12            4.4           9.8aQ       90            40             54 0           3            25             1            06
45. Korc                                 70        31.5            219           03 I                       3.8          18.4        107 0          57             42X0          19            38           37            114E
46. L.hso                                71         2.6F p          51FP         86FP         21FP          3.3FP        18.0         79            23u0           34            26            18            4            120
47. Meins1  a70                                    11.8            3460          89Bi         17            4.7          16.5 0       89X           31S            29X            3            25           lb             74
48. Puliti                               68        58.0            lOP            .            ..F. ...                               45X           35             15            ..38
49. Pbil ippines                         71        59.0            197           72            6            3.           29.0         93            30             62             836                                      5
50. Si.gpoo7U                                       2.i            843           7            31            3.4          16.01        92            302            4016                        29            1858
51. Thsailod                             7i        37.6            163           70            .8V1         4.1 V        17.1         901           IA4            131           13            25            15            37
52. Tukhe                                69        34.5            340F          4AOA           9           3.5          17.1         92X           42             25X           14            23           26             41
SUMM8ARY PFM 00VE1DPtN
COINURIEC
Nober of c-utin-                                                              46            Ii           69           43            52            52             32           Si4_                                       4
Reogs                                                                      (     - 98)    (1 - 38) (i.4 - 6.3)  ~6.3 - 29.0) (6 - 107)          (22- 72)  (2 -54)          (I . 32)      (13 - 38)    (i - 38)        (O - 4577
Q-utilen:  Oppor                                                              8i            15           4.7           20           89           46             29            22            30            22            46
Median                                                          53            10            3.8           18.0        74            37             iS           21            25            15             13
__________________________________________           ~~~~~~~~                                                                ~      ~      ~~~~Lone  25  . 6  3.2  14.3     50            32              a       ...5 ,,,,         20            107
tybhelo:      .... Data  nailehie                                          Notes:  A     1s1965 u- before    NN a  noe..pi....ueo                                      Ceitame  (2) and (21               Worl  Tehies (110D)  Pr--
-  igitode  oil no uegli5ihle                                     a     966                5=G.D.P.                                                                                     vsee   ius
Otaguind   less  tbea  hif of  unit -eploped                       C =  96                  P   Intindig forign aid                                   Colt-s  (3)-(9) ead (11)           11m  missions
?   otiunhl                                                      2D   968                   3-Centra   Eovorn   only                                  Ca1nst   180-fill sod (13):   112SCO Statttiro!         enhc
P    l1870               V  - Icldin"a priveeepodlnr
G   19 71                   l.Incidiog  -neregd1ZnSnt
May 31, 17927






ANNEX 2
LEBANON
ENROLLMENT, TEACHERS AND INSTITUTIONS BY LEVEL AND TYPE OF EDUCATION
1970/71
Enrollments             % of                 Teachers    Teacher
Level and Type                      % Distri-      %       Relevant                Equiv.       Pupil      Insti-
of Education             Total      bution      Female   Age Group   Output   Full-time    Ratio    tutions
PRIMARY
Government             192,518      37.4                                        8,356          1:23    1,258 6/
Government-Aided       158,455      30.8                                        4,402          1:35 )  1,002
Private                163,729      31.8                                        4,563          1:35 )
Sub-Total           514,702    100.0        45.5      109.5 1/   60,821   17,321            -       2,260
SECONDARY
(i) Lower
General (G)         65,150      50.6                              9,538    3,704          1:18       540
General (P)         58,487      45.5                             12,120    1,720          1:34       481
Technical (G)          844       0.7                                 330      100 2/      1:8         10 5/
Technical (P)        4,100 2/   3.2                                1,500 4/
Sub-Total           128,581    100.0        42.5 3/    49.9       23,488
(ii) Upper
General (G)         10,533      19.8                               1,925      702         1:15       540
General (P)         25,655      48.1                              5,331    1,280           1:20      481
Primary Teacher
Training            3,278       6.1                                 733      182         1:18
Technical (G)        1,537       2.9                                 607      200 2/       1:8         8 5/
Technical (P)       12,300 2/  23.1                               4,100 4/
Sub-Total            53,303    100.0        31.0 3/    31.9        12,696
HIGHER
Lebanese students:
Government             9,733      49.6                                642       362         1:27         1
Private                9,912      50.4                               1,242                              10
Sub-Total          19,645    100.0        24.1         8.6       1,884                               11
Foreign students        22,184
TOTAL              738,415                                       98,889
1/ Of which 31% over-aged,
2/ Estimated distribution between levels.
3/ Estimate based on distribution in general education.
4/ Estimated outout.
5/ Most schools have both lower and unoer level students.
-6/ 1,076 schools are rented. 488 schools have both orimary and lower secondary students.
0






LEBANON
SUPPLY AND DYE-4AND OF PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS IN GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS
Teacher/            Teachers                 Output from   Wastage
Pupil               Unqual-               Primary Teacher  (about        %
Year       Enrollments   Ratio   Qualified   ified      Total         Training        2.5%)   Qualified
1970/71        192,518      1:23    3,345       5,011     8,356            733          78          40
1971/72                             4, 000                                 750         100
1972/73                             4,650                                  800         120
1973/74                             5,330                                  900         140
1974/75                             6,090 2/                             1,000 1/      150
1975/76                             6,940 2/                             1,000 1/       160
1976/77                             7,780 2/                             1,000 1/      190
1977/78        300,000      1:28    8,590 2/             10,676          1sooo 1/      210
1978/79                             9,380 2/                             1,000 1/       240
1979/80        340,000      1:32   10,140 2/      86o    11,000                                     92
1/ About 600 pre-service graduates and about 400 upgraded unqualified teachers.
2/ -About 400 in upgrading training who have to be replaced during the year by unqualified teachers.



LEBANON
SUPPLY AND DEMAND OF LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS IN GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS
Teachers                             Output                  Teachers Needed       7% Qualified Teachers
Teacher/ Qualified  Unqualified    Total                    Social                           Social                Social
Enroll-   Pupil       Equiv.       Equiv.       Equiv.   Science   Science &   Other                  Science &             Science &  Total
Year     ments    Ratio   Full-Time   Full-Time   Full-Time  Teachers  Languages  Subiects  Science  Languages  Science  Languages  Staff
1/           1/
1970/71    65,150    1:18    1,000           2,704         3,704                                                                                    27
1971/72
1972/73                -
1973/74                                                       -         200
1974/75                                                                 300       360
1975/76                                                                 300       360
1976/77                                                                 300       360
1977/78   150,000                                                       300       360
1978/79                                                                 300       360
3/
1979/80   197,000    1:30    4,300           1,700         6,600      1,700    1,800            2/      1,550      3,000       100        60        65
1/ Es.timated distribution.
2/ Teacher training will be arranged in short courses during summertime for graduates from technical schools in accordance
with demand.
/  Not including teacher training programs under 2/ above.
,                              *                                                                    #~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
*0~ .   ..0



L E B A N O N
Expenditures on Education and Training, 1971
(In LL Thousands)
Percentage Distribution
Private (Estimated)                      Public                    Total Expenditures           Distribution
Level and Type                Recurrent   Capital   TotalAl   Recurrent    Capital   Total             Amount     Z       % Private   % Public
Primary                90,000                90,000       63,723       1,000    64,723       154,723    100.0       58.2       41.8
Secondary              61,100       2,900    64,000       40,337       2,000    42,337      106,337      100.0       61.1      39.8
of which:  Lower secondary         38,000                38,000       29,686       2,000    31,686
2,900    (2,900)
Upper secondary        23,100  J             23,100       10,65L-/               10,651
Primary Teacher Training                                               8,019                  8,019       8,019      100.0                100.0
Technical Teacher Training                                               438                    438         438      100.0                100.0
Vocational and Technical           24,600                24,600       16,421       3,925    20,346       44,946      100.0       54.8      45.2
Other Programs                                            16,3431/               16,343      16,343      100.0                100.0
Higher Education                   29,000                29,000-'    19,014        8,385    27,399.f/   56,399       100.0       51.5       48.5
Totals                204,700      2,900   207,600       164,295      15,310   179,605    387,205        100.0       53.7      46.3
% of GDP                    4.0%                                   3.47%       7.4Z
Source:  Ministry of Education, Ministry of Planning, la Commission Episcopale pour L'Ecole Catholique Au Liban, la Secretariat Des Instituts
Religioux Libanais Pour les Affaires Sociales, the Makassed Moslem Association
a/  Excludes subsidies and other transfers from the public sector
bI/  Includes physical education programs
c/  Includes commercial
d/  Includes subsidies and other transfers to the private sector
e/ l'Unive-site Arabe only
f/  l'Universite Libanaise



L E B A N O N
Government Annual Recurrent
Costs Per Pupil
Growth
1968 .           1969              1970            1971         Rate p.a.
LL     US$         LL    Us$        LL    US$       Lu   2US$       1968-1971
1.  Primary                         230      73        253      80      310      96      331    102        11.8%
of which: Teacher Cost          175      56        185      59      227      73      236    76        10.7%
Rents           10      3          12       4       15       5       19      7       26.0%
Other          45       14         56      17       68      18       76    19        11.0%
2.  Lower Secondary                 312      99        395    125       417    129        439a  136        1t.0%
3.  Upper Secondary                 700    222         750    237       797    246        881   283         8.5%
14. Primar-y Teacher
Traininm                     1,900    619        2,229    705   2,330    721    2,446   778            8.3%
Technical Education          2,000    634        2,322    735   2,420    749   2,565   825             9.0%
Source: Ministries of Education and Planning
a/ Cost per lower secondary level pupil in 1971 was II 409 ($126) in primary and lower secondary schools and
LL 614 ($190) in secondary schools.
Aoril 27, 1972                                                                                                              18
*                           *                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



.~~~
L E B A N O N
PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING  1962-1971
(In LL Millions)
Growth Rates P.A.
1962                            196,                      1968                   1971                      1962-1971
Recurrent  Capital   Total   Recurrent Capital  Total   Recurrent Capital Total Recurrent Capital Total    Total Expenditures
1.  Ministry of Education Expenditures         42.2               42.2         78.7             78.7     88.0             88.0    149.2              149.7           15.1 %
of which:  Public Primary                                              5                          41.R             41.8      63.7              63.7
Lower Secondary             30.4               30.4       '    7 '7                   1.t              15.6      29.7              29.7
2. Total Central Government
Expenditures on Education             44.4        2.0    46.4         82.0    7.3      89.3       92.2     4.2    96.4   154.2       6.9    161.1            14.9 %
3.  Total Central Government
Expenditures                          295.0     120.3    415.3    403.2    123.0    526.2        472.5   131.0   603.5   642.0   132.0    774.0               7.2 %
%  Spent on Education (02)             15.0       1.6      11.1     20.0       5.9      16.9      19.5      3.2    15.9    24.0      5.2      20,8
4.  Total Public Sector Expenditures
on Education                           48.2       2.0      50.2     88.0       7.3     95.3      100.5      4.2   104.7   164.3    15.3    179.6             15.3 Z
As 7 of GDP                                        N.A.                         2.7                         2.4                       3.4
Source: Ministries of Education, Planning, Finance



L E B A N O N
GOVERNMENT'S RATIONALIZATION AND EXPANSION
PROGRAM ("PLAN LE REGROUPEMENT")AT PRIMARY AND LOWER SECONDARY LEVELS
A.  PRIMARY LEVEL                                                                             B.  LOWER SECONDARY LEVEL
Composition of School                                                                        Composition of School
Accomaodation                      Construction Program                                      Accommodation                  Construction  Program
Student Places Teacher/       Replacement of   Expan-        Total            Cost"         Student Places  Teacher/       Replacement of   Expan-    Total              Cost*
No.     7    Pupil Ratio Rented Facilities sion          New Places  (Lb Millions)          No.     %      Pupil Ratio Rented Facilities sion    New Places  (LL Millions)
1971 Accommodation
Rented Facilities                163,640  85.0      1:22                                                                      65,150 100.0        1:18
Owned Facilities                  28J878  15.0      1:32
Total                      192,518 100.0      1:23                                                                      6S.150 100.0        1:18
1972-1980 Construction                                             77,518         147,482    225,000          135.0                                              65,150        131,850   197,000          141.0
1980 Accommodation
Rented Facilities                 86,122  25.3      1:25
Owned Facilities                  28,878             1:32
New Schools, Replacement          77,518             1:35                                                                     65,150              1:30
New Schools, Expansion           147,482            1:35                                                                     131,850              1:30
Sub-total, Owned fa.-ilities    253 878  74-7       1:35                                                                     197,000 100.0        1:30
Total                    340,000 100.0      1:32                                                                     197,000 100.0        1:30
* Construction only
r                                         *                                                                                         r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



LEBANON
Comparison of Recurrent Cost Implications of Education Development Plan, 1980
(In L,E Millions except as noted)
Development Plan                                     Enrollment Expansion to
Expendi-               Enrollment Targets:Expenditure                        Plan Enrollment Targets:Expenditure
ture          With Rationalization ("Plan de Regw upement")           Without Rationalization ("Plan de Regroupement")
1971       Enroll-      Teacher/Pupil      Unit Cost      Total       Enroll-      Teacher/Pupil       Unit Cost      Total
mest             Ratio          to Gov't       Cost        ment             Ratio           to Gov't       Cost
A.  Primary Level                                                                (LIi)                                                      (LE)
78.1       505,000                              '          153.3      505,000                                         231.3
Public                    63.7        340,000          1:32              387         131.5       340,000           1:20              616         209.5
Private Aided             14.4        165,000                            132          21.8       165,000                             132          21.8
B.  Lower Secondary Level          29.7        197,000          1:30              409          80.5       197,000          1:18               742         146.2
C.  Total Expenditure
"A" and "B"                   107.8                                                       233.8                                                      377.5
D.  Total Ministry of
Education Recurrent
Expenditure                   149.2                                                       344.4                                                      539.0
E.  Total Central
Government Recurrent
Expenditure                   642.0                                                    1,354.0                                                     1,354.0
F.  "D" as % of "E"                23.2                                                        25.4                                                        40.0
G.  Central Government
Current Revehue               697.0                                                    1,450.0                                                     1,450.0
H.  GDP                         5,207.0                                                     9,572.0                                                     9,572.0



L E B A N a N
PROJECTED COSTS AND BENEFITS OF THE PRIMARY
SCHOOI. CCIPONENT IN PROPOSED BANK PROJECT
(In Thousands of LI)
A.  Cost to the Government with Proposel Proiect S hools                               B.  Cost to the Government of Catering for Same                 C.   Net
Year                                               Total                                    Total              Enrollment wit out proiect schools *                         -t
Number       Number       Number    Investment    Direct                         Cost       Number        Number        Number       Direct        Total            of
of           of           of         Expen-        Teacher      Total                      of             of            of         Teacher      Recurrent      Benefits
Students      Schools    Teachers        ditures      Costs        Cost                     Students      Schools      Teachers       Costs         Costs          Benefits
0                                                   973.0                                   973.0                                                                              -973.0
1                                                5,308.3                                 5,308.3                                                                             -5,308.3
2          5,040          12          144        12,911.3        967.4       1,290.2   14,201.5        5,040          21            219         1,471.2       2,036.2       -12,165.3
3         24,240          32          693                      4,958.4       6,617.5    6,617.5    24,240            102          1,065         7,620.1      10,423.2      + 3,805.7
4         24,240          32           693                     5,272.2       7,029.6    7,029.6    24,240            102          1,065         8,094.0      10,665.6      + 3,636.0
5         24,240          32           693                     5,617.7       7,490.2    7,490.2    24,240            102          1,065         8,637.2      11,974.6      + 4,484.4
6         24,240          32          693                      5,981.3        7,975.0    7,975.0    24,240           102          1,065         9,204.0      12,974.5      + 4,999.5
7         24,240          32           693                     6,363.0       8,484.0    8,484.0    24,240            102          1,065         9,308.2      12,919.9       + 4,435.9
8         24,240          32           693                     6,781.1       9,041.5    9,041.5    24,240             102         1,065        10,439.1      13,938.0       + 4,896.5
9         24,240          32           693                     7,217.5       9,623.3    9,623.3    24,240             102         1,065        11,118.6      14,835.0       + 5,211.7
10        24,240          32           693                     7,708.4      10,277.8   10,277.8    24,240            102          1,065        11,840.7      15,780.2       + 5,502.4
11        24,240          32           693                     8,199.2      10,932.2   10,932.2    24,240             102         1,065        12,610.7      16,798.3       + 5,866.1
12        24,240          32           693                     8,764.0      11,635.2   11,635.2    24,240             102         1,065        13,429.7      17,937.6       + 6,302.4
13        24,240          32           693                     9,308.2      12,410.9   12,410.9    24,240             102         1,065        14,303.0      19,676.9       + 7,266.0
14        24,240          32          693                      9,908.1      13,210.8   13,210.8    24,240            102          1,065        15,232.7      20-289.0       + 7,078.2
15        24,240          32           693                    10,544.4      14,059.2   14,059.2    24,240             102         1,065        16,223.1      21,622.1       + 7,562.9
* is in Government rented facilities.
The rate of return over cost for a fifteen year period is 21.5%.
0* 



*~~~ * I
L E B A N 0 N
Projected Costs and Benefits of the Lower
Secondary School Component in Proposed Bank Project
(In Thousands of LI)
B.  Cost to the Government of catering for same
A. Cost to the Government with Proposed Project Schools                      enrollment ijithout project schools *
I           ~~~Total                                     _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
I              InvestmentI Direct        Total                                                   Direct      Total         C. Net
No. of     No. of    No. of         Expendit-l  Teacher   Recurrent   Total    No. of          No. of    No. of       Teacher    Recurrent        Stream of
Students   Schools   Teachers         ures       Costs         Cost      Cost      Students   Schools   Teachers   Costs          Costs           benefits
0                                                   500.1                                                                                                      -  500.1
1                                                2,505.0                                                                                                       -2,505.0
2                                                6,695.7                                                                                                       -6,o95.7
3           5,440          14        181         5,055.0      1,375.0    1,833.3   6,888.3        5,440       14         302       2,394.9      3,193.3        -3,695.0
4           14,400         24        480                       3,844.8    5,126.4   5,126.4    14,400         24         800       6,717.6      8,956.8        +3,830.4
5           14,400        24         480                      4,104.0    5,472.0   5,472.0    14,400          24         800       7,020.0      9,360.0-       +3,888.0
6           14,400         24        480                      4,341.6    5,817.6   5,817.6    14,400          24         800       7,272.0      9,648.0,       +3,830.0
7          l4,400         24         480                      4,417.2    5,889.6   5,889.6    14,400   1  24             800       8,013.6    10,684.8         +4,795.2
8           14,400         24        480      I               4,968.0 1 6,624.0   6,624.0    14,400            24        800       8,488.8    11,318.4         +4,694.4
9           14,400        24         480                       5,313.6    7,084.8   7,084.8    14,400          24        800       8,996.4    11,995.2         +4,910.4
10          14,400         24         480                      5,680.8    7,574.4   7,574.4    14,400          24         800       9,536.4    12,715.2         +5,140.8
11          14,400         24   i    480                       6,015.6    8,020.8   8,020.8    14,400          24         800      10,108.8    13,478.4         +5,457.6
12          14,400         24   i    480                       6,372.0    8,496.0   8,496.0    14,400   l  24             800      10,724.4    14,299.2         +5,803.2
13           14,400        24         480      j                6,816.5    9,115.2   9,115.2    14,400          24        800      11,364.4    15,148.8         +6,033.6
14           14,400         24        480                       7,225.4    9,662.4   9,662.4    14,400          24         800     12,077.6    16,056.0         +6,393.6
15          14,400          24        480                       7,659.4   10,324.8 110,324.8    14,400   l  24             800        12,906.4    17,020.8      +6,696.0
* i.e. in Government rented primary, lower secondary and secondary schools
The rate of return over cost for a fifteen year period is 24.2 %,
"ear                                              L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1H~~~F



L E B A N O N
Pro,jection of Public EMenditures on Education and Training
(In Millions of LU)
Capital           Expenditures:  1977            Expenditures:  1980
Ex enditures     Recurrent  Capital  Total      Recurrent  Capital  Total
1972-1980
1. Ministry of Education                          2                 2            4                 3
Primary                              109.             109.         131.              131.
Lower Secondary                       5D.6             50.6         80.5              8o.5
Upper Secondary                       33.4             33.4         42.3              42.3
Primary Teacher Training                       10.5              10.5        12.1               12.1
Technical Education                            24.0              24.0        39.8               39.8
Secondary Teacher Training                     10.0             10.0         11.8               11.8
Technical Teacher Training                      1.5               1$5         1.8                1.8
Other Programs                                 19.9              19.9        24.6               24.6
2. Central Government
Expenditure on Education        314.4         268.1     48.0   316.1        356.1     30.0    386.1
3. Central Government
Current Revenue                             1.157.0                       12450.0
Expenditure Education (#2)
as % of Revenue                              23.1                          24.5
4. Total Central Government
Expenditures                 115l0          1,046.0   223.3 1,269.        1,354.0    200.0         0
Expenditures on Education
(#2) as % of Total Expen-
ditures                       20.7           25.6     21.4    24.9         26.2     15.0      24.8
5. Total Public Expenditures
on Education                    334.4         306.0     52.0   358.o        402.3      30.0    431.3
6.  GDP                                                           7,814.0                         9,572.o
Expenditures on Education
(#5) as % of GDP                                                4.5                             4.5
April t972
*                                              *                                                   '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEX 13
LEBANON
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY VARIOUS TYPES OF EXPENDITURES
Lebanese Pounds (000's)    U.S. Dollars (OOO's)       % of
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Total
1. Construction
(a) Site-works          1,844    1,770    3,614               569    1,162      9%
lb) Buildings         15,389    8,714   24,103   4,949    2 801    7,750    62%
(c) Professional
Services          1,953        -     1,953     628       -        628      5%
Sub-Total     19,1A6_  10,484   29,670 6_ 6170    3,370    9,540
2. Furniture              3,552        N.A._   3,552   1,142   N.A.    1,142      9%
3. Equipment                501    4,966    5,467       -     1,758    1,758    14%
4. Technical Assistance      62      249       311      20       80       100     1%
Sub-Total     23,301   15,699   39,000   7,332    5,208   12,540   100%
5. Contingencies          6,070    4,286   10,356   1,952    1,378    3,330    26.5%
Total         29,371   19,985   49,356   9,284    6,586   15,870



LEBAWN
UNIT CAPITAL COSTS AND EFFICIENCY OF NEW PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
(in U.S. DDllars)
Gross Area     Building     Construction   Furniture   &quipaent           Teacher-
Type of School          per Rupil   Construction      Cost per     Cost per    Cost per   Totals   Pupil    Use
________  M')  Cost (M )    Pupil          Pupil       Pupil              Ratio    Factor
Primary                    3.0          57.00          171.15        18.40       17.00     206.55     35      70
Lawer Secondary            3.6          57.70          207.90        31.70       73.60     313.20      30     75
Primary Teacher
Training Institutes      4.4          61.4o          270.85        45.oo       44.90     360.75     22      75
1/ Exclusive of professional fees and contingencies.
>I
Hi



LEBANON
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES (in US$'s @ L.L.3.11 = 1.00)
Profes-
Site                Building                                                        sional       Technical
Development           Construction             Furniture             Equipment        Services      Assistance       Totals
Local     Foreign       Local     Foreign    Local    Foreign    Local         Foreign       Local    Local   Foreign   ($000)
a. Physical Contingencies
(Unforeseeable)              107.        107         107,        107        N.A.       N.A.       N.A.       5%           107%     N.A.      N.A.
b. Price Increase
(escalation)                 19%         12%         19%         20.8%    12.5%        N.A.      16.3%       19.1%       17.8%     8.3%       6%
c. Total Contingencies
(In percentage)              29%         22%         29%         30.8%    12.5%        N.A.      16.3%       19.1%      27.8%      8.3%       6%
Total Cost of Project
(before contingencies)       593.0       569.0      4,948.0    2,802.0    1,142.0        N.A.      161.0      1,597.0    628.0        20.0    80.0   12,540.0
a.  Physical                        59.3        56.9        494.8       280.2       N.A.       N.A.       N.A.         79.9      62.8       N.A.      N.A.   1,033.9
b.  Price Increase                 112.7        68.3        940.1         582.8      142.8     N.A.       26.2        305.0    111.8         1.7      4.8    2,296.2
c.  Total Contingencies            172.0       125.2      1,434.9       863.0        142.8     N.A.       26.2        384.9    174.6         1.7      4.8    3,330.1
Currently Estimated Cost
Plus Contingencies          765.0        694.2      6,382.9    3,665.0    1,284.8        N.A.      187.2      1,981.9    802.6        21.7    84.8   15,s7O.l



LEBANON EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
DATE OF LOAN-                                       _                                           CLOSING DATE OF LOAN---
YEAR                             FIRST                 SECOND               THIRD                 FOURTH               FIFTH
QUARTER                     1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20
PRIMARY SCHOOLS            ***  ###  +++  +=   =//  / "          K               H    H.   !H                             1
(240 puipils)                        oo  000  vVV   ww               xx
PRIMARY SCHOOLS            ***  ###  +++  +=   =/   //  '':   :::::            .!           !!!   !
(480 pupils)                          0  000  ovv  vww              XXX  xxx
PRIMARY SCHOOLS            ***  IH#  +++  +=  =        ///        : ::  ::   :      : ::  ::   :       .:  !    !     !    !
(960 pupils)                             ooo  000   vv  vww                         XXX  XXX  Xxx
LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS                .. ###   +++ ++ +   =l/  /''  ::  :::     ::: :    H      H! . .. . .
(320 pupils)                               0  000  oVV  vww  w                  x  x
LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS   ***  ###  +4+  +++  =              = I'  " :  ::
(560 pupils)                               o  000  000          v  VVw  ww               xxx  xxx  XXX
LOWER SECONDARY SCHOOLS   ***  ###  +++  +.+  ===  ===  I/f  .                        : :::  :::      :::  :::  !!!  !!!  !!!  !!!
(1,120 pupils)                             0  000  00                    VVv  www             xxx  xxx  XXX
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING  ***               .   ===  ===  =//  /"I  '::  :::  :::  :::  ...  ...  :!!  !!
SCHOOL                                      0  000  00               vvw  ww                      x  xx
LOWER SECONDARY TEACHER   **   ###  +++  -H+--             ==/  f/f   -          ..,   ...   ...   H!   H!   H   l
TRAINING SCHOOL                             0  000  00   ww  www                      xx  x
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSTRUCTION RELATED SCHEDULE:                                 FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT:
* Acquisition and survey of construction sites                  o Preparation of furniture and equipment procurement lists
# Selection and appointment of architects                      v Preparation and submission of bids for supply of furniture
+ Preliminary architectural planning                                and equipment
(including final programming)                               w Review of bids and award of contracts for supply of furniture
Preparation of bidding documents for construction                 and equipment
/ Preparation and submission of bids for construction          x Delivery and installation of furniture and equipment
Review of bids and award of construction contract            # Technical assistance                                                         m
Construction (including site-works and utilities)                                                                                           x
Construction defects guarantee period
*                                                                     *                                                                      0



ANNEX 17
LEBANON - ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
1/                               Accumulated           Undisbursed
Quarter          Disbursements          Dhsbursements            Balance
1                  -                      -                     _
2                  -                      -                   6.60
3                0.03                   0.03                  6.57
4                0.03                   o.o6                  6.54
5                0.02                   0.08                  6.52
6                0.02                   0.10                  6.50
7                0.30                   0.o4                  6.20
8                0.35                   0.75                  5.85
9                0.73                   1.488                 5.12
10                 1.15                  2.63                  3.97
11                 0.63                  3.46                  3.34
12                0.90                   4.16                  2.44
13                 0.71                  4.87                  1.73
14                0.59                   5.46                  1.14
15                 0.44                  5.90                  0.70
16                0.23                   \6.13                 0-.47
17                 0.20                  6.33                   0.27
18                 0.15                  6.48                   0.12
19                 0.12                  6.60                   o.oo
g/ Starting from date of Loan Agreement






*                                                                                    
LEBANON
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM 1971/72
-..-PRE-SCHOOL-_l-   <-W-          PRIMARY -                                                   SECONDARY                          N                               HIGHER        E
-         LOWER LOW                                 UPPER ----W
PRIMARY TEACHER                    LOWER SECONDARY
TRAINING              ~~~TEACHER TRAINING
GENERAL                              GENERA                                        UNIVERSITY
CERiTIf ICAIL TECHNICAL
0    BffRL V L I                                                                                                                                           TECH.TEACHER
*   t3ACCALAUHt AT                                                                         VOCATIONAL                                                         TRAINING
*    [JIPLO,)M,A
*   DECRLE                                                               iA                       L
PS  PHI SCHOOL .,RADES
P   PREPARATUfiy YE AR                                               iCULIURAL
LABOR MARKET
AGE   3       4       5       6       7      8       9       10          II      12          13     14              15      16          17              18          19      20      21      22
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   I I  I   I                                                                                                                       I I      
GRADE                          1       2       3       4       5           6       7           8       9              10      11          12              13          14      15      16      17
NO(1T1  Age gl.ie W eldto ,i.Ii Ileal not foes ess,Ilv -o s'
World B.nk-6757






LEBANON
ENROLLMENT PYRAMID 1970-1971
AGE-
EDUCATIONAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GROUP
LEVEL/GRADE                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GOP        %OF
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                             TOTAL                  POPULA-   RECEDANT
THIRD LEVEL                 MALE                                                                                                                                                                             FEMALE                  TION      AGE GROUP
IB                     1000                                                                         4   -6                                                                                               300
T                                                                                                    37 ,        5            2 %  
17                    1.600                                                                         6%                       75S 3,0
T                                                                                                    3          7            9 l l7 =637%% .73173D3.1
16                    260006%                                                                                                 3                                                                          700                      229.300  8.6%
T5                    2 900                                                                         602110                                                                                               1,200)
T                                               *7_;5%                                                                        5
6,800                                                                        25,                       44Y                                                                         .200
SECOND LEVEL
uPPER                                                                                      7.23%
1 2                    a0OU4007                                                                                                                                                                          1S
T ~~~~~~90                                                                                                                       24003
1 1              1~~~ 2.950                                                         15                                            6%                                                               6.300                     162  00319%
SECOND LEVEL
LOISLO
9                     13600        3                                                                                   56%                                                                               9.400
1. SW                                                          4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 %5%108
oboE                                                                                                                           10.800~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27.0    99
21500                               j   0            3        / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'14.000
4                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.000
61                      2                                                                                                  5%       45
33,500                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27.400
470.000  o005%
64300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              ....4.0
42 300
BOYS                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GIRLS
GOVERNMENT    /A
PRIVATE            V22.200 FOREIGN STUDENTS ENROLLED IN HIGHER EDUCATION
INSTITUTIONS NOT INC LUDED IN THE PYRAMID
1Of whi,ch 31% averaged






ENROLL~E   INPI~FMA ANON SCjAF~?YVSUCA7TION
~~~ ~~             GROUp
-Jo8
I / 78504 0~~~~~~~~~~ps\ 1                                                                                          6 9% OFz
400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;wT                                                                                                 1 5 70 4GE    
208   LGIOIER@"NM                                                       IsI
1917i
1 9701976
~~~~~~~~194- 
d G'   nk_d 8an






IBRD-3938
.   ..  ,ET0Rl<i:Y   ._>r   3530,                                 \    36   S  Y   R  I A                          f                        36'  -JUNE  1972
CYPRUS  -                   I  A                                                                                                     .,'0 
LESBAION   ,r
-~             IRAQ I RAO
ISRAE L  f                                                                                                                                 '     AKO)f
-.IPW    -- K                                  x : .,,A  K K A R                                        3,S
SS  iE(;sYE;WsA}l;)l:AtARtA    _                                         *0  .          D          J                                                                  \~~~0  -<
<,                                                                                      .. ... ,  H  /
:chool ,' etX9 -  - .~ T   L    .               H  E R M  E L             / f         .    ,
Aediterranean   Sea o                                                                                            S                            ,                                                9 /
B A IA   L G R                                                                /  /
g~~~~~ ~        ~             ~~~~~~ ' .        /                                 'o  ' /EAO
. w      o         o~~~~                ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~ f  s  R A   U  IA  N                                       rm   ece riigsho
hq   -  - ) \ 4>,~~~~~~/ 7/    't                                                                               /,PPLTO:Prosprsumml
34'      t/l>.<             ffi    ,:30       __,'   X   HAS B A I Y A            (                                                   X    4 1 500 -- 2,000
-34- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --    .-
BAA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~EAO
EDUCATION PROJECT
SAID:  A    B           E                                    /        A H     I j                                       (          oryeoi ho, F ig r       upoo
,.  .-,   rA,,*>  L- 9j   0     ,J-st=istis cL.-l d L y echMnl  --   iloF iny 320
<0'                                           P5       ,                                             - . t   s.  ACHAIYA  --o, dy schol -   p.ty 560
-33-30'53 3'
E S-O                                                  Loe Reco-d.y .   hool - copo(ity 1, 120           3   300
P,!-Ly sch-l --cp-cily 240
X   .   - t - 1AE N T  :t-B Ai L-  t.    - i   ,                                                                             KlLOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,;y,,,~. .  ... ty48
03    rissory schoo -- c_p-ity 960
.'  _ : -       rod6ontipPOPULATION: P-- p- - tqOe 1Sl                           0
M- l'o- 20,000
C      '~~   HASBAIYA                                                                              I ~/   500 -- 1,02
Pooo  de/wrrtmi-ily fi9so-s o-e bM ed Po.
I S  Rsslcsoowpdld by thE  MiLi,rty of PIo-    36,g
~~~ Aohbootsyss  IS                                                                            a, o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f Jos-osy 1, 1965)
t                                                                                                                   D~~I--.A---Op.,t-et (WhthFooot) bo-do-i-
(                                                   ,0,                                                                              Irs O ooOoooI hoo S,YoR   I  
It,                       Y       IA                                                00                            20             30             420
BENT   JBAU  (  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ( ~~~KILOMETERS
0     5           [0          IS           20           25
j  waloesdwse,oeslc,,ocwtooccbolhe                                     ~~~M LES
I S R A E L       35 i'30' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'36130



