Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22236
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(41180)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
FOR A COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 25, 2001
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2001)
Cunrency Unit = Hryvnia (UAH)
1UAH = US$ 0.18
US$ 1 = 5.5 UAH
FISCAL YEAR
July I  - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MCI           Ministry of Coal Industry
MOF           Ministry of Finance
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
UAH           Ukrainian Hryvnia
UDKR          Ukrainian State Company for Coal Sector Restructuring
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:    A. David Craig
Task Team Leader:    Heinz Hendriks



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UIKRAIE
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     5
6. Sustainability                                                                         6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          6
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        7
9. Partner Comments                                                                        8
10. Additional Information                                                                8
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frarne Matrix                                     9
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     10
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     11
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     12
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     14
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        15
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    16
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                          17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P040564                                        Project Name: COAL SECAL
Team Leader: Heinz Hendriks                               TL Unit: EMTIM
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. June 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: COAL SECAL                                     L/C/TF Number: 41180
CountryIDepartment: UKRAINE                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector. NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/03/1996                               Effective:  12/27/1996        12/27/1996
Appraisal:  07/19/1996                                MTR:
Approval:  12/11/1996                               Closing:  12/31/1997         06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE/MINISTRY OF COAL INDUSTRY
Other Partners: MINISTRY OF FINANCE
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Luca Barbone                               Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      A. David Craig                             Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Heinz Hendriks                            Jonathan Walters
ICR Primary Author:   Heinz Hendriks
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Pe7formance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
(a) To support balance of payment and budget financing needs in late 1996 and in 1997, including part of
the fiscal costs of restructuring the coal sector;
(b) to help transfonn the coal sector into a self-sustained sector; and
(c) to improve the productivity of the coal sector.



These objectives reflected the priorities of the coal sector at that time, as identified by the Government and
supported by the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy. Objective (a) was aimned at short-term support, while
Objectives (b) and (c) were aimed at progress towards long-term goals that still are very valid today. The
underlying actions, as defined in the tranche release conditions, were very demanding. Not all of them were
responsive to the sector's circumstances and development priorities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Development Objective (a) was revised to extend the period for balance of payment support to
December 31, 2000.
This revision reflects the delays incurred in meeting conditions of release of the original second tranche of
US$ 150 million which, at the Government's request and at the Regional Operations Committee approval,
was restructured into four smaller tranches (three tranches of US$40 million each and a final tranche of
US$30 million) to enable the Government to continue the most crucial task of its coal sector restructuring
program, i.e., the closure of uneconomic mines and the mitigation of the social and environmental impact.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program supported by the loan included:
*   division of all mines into four categories;
*   a performance contract system for category 2 and 3 mines (MCI);
*   corporatization of category I and 2 mines;
*   supervision of category 3 mines by Ministry of Coal Industry;
*   abolition of all restrictions on coal exports;
*   abolition of price control;
*   restrictions on subsidies of category 2 and 3 mines to transitional support for operating costs, no
investrnent and constraints on recruitment;
*   restrictions on state support for category I mines to investment loans (subject to conditions), no
operating costs subsidies;
*   net payables for mines in categories 1-3 not to increase from the 1996 level of UAH3,890 million;
*   an agreed coal sector budget for 1997;
*   closure of 40 mines in a socially and environmentally satisfactory manner; and
*   divestiture of the social assets of 100 mines
Not all original components were required to meet the objectives and some components were beyond the
control of the implementing agency. Moreover, for the country and the sector, no relevant lessons from
prior projects were available at that time.
3.4 Revised Components:
The number of mines to be closed was raised to 44 mines, while all unfulfilled conditions for operating mines
were waived. During implementation of the program, closure of uneconomic mines was identified to be the
single most important action that was fully under control of the implementing agency and had the most positive
impact on the operating mines
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates the SECAL as 'Unsatisfactory' for Quality at Entry because the Loan was restructured later
and the conditions for release of the original second tranche proved to be over-demanding, even though
norn-achievement of part of those conditions was the result of an unforeseen escalation of barter trade.
However, notwithstanding the U rating for Quality at Entry, a sensible and pragmatic response was taken
- 2 -



by switching the later phase of the SECAL fully to mine closures. Also, the feasibility of the central task of
the reform program, i.e., the closure of uneconomic mines and the mitigation of the social and
environmental impact, was confirmed under this adjustment operation. The Coal Pilot Project had provided
evidence of the feasibility of mine closures at the time of appraisal of the SECAL and valuable additional
lessons from the implementation of the Coal Pilot Project were taken into consideration for the later
restructuring of the SECAL. Finally, a Rapid Supervision Assessment, carried out by QAG on July 23,
1999, found that the project design was sound, the project was ready for implementation at approval and
the borrower was committed to the project.
The use of the SECAL vehicle is considered appropriate because it allowed timely support to the
Government at the critical starting phase of its coal sector restructuring. A specific investment operation
would have taken much more time to prepare, with the associated risk of slowing down the mine closures.
Even after restructuring of the loan, the SECAL vehicle remained appropriate because the conditionality
allowed to move forward with mine closures in a difficult environment. The experience gained with
implementation of both, the Coal SECAL and the Coal Pilot Project, has been valuable for designing the
follow-on project, the Coal Sector Social Mitigation Project, as a specific investment operation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs was satisfactory. In particular, the following progress was made
towards achievement of the three objectives:
(a) To support balance ofpayment and budget financing needs, including part of the fiscal costs of
restructuring the coal sector: During the period December 1996 to October 2000, the loan provided $300
million balance of payment support. The Government provided budgetary funds for the restructuring of the
coal sector at a rate sufficient to meet the implementation progress criteria agreed with the Bank from time
to time for the release of individual loan tranches. This development objective has therefore been achieved,
albeit over a longer time period than originally foreseen.
(b) To help transform the coal sector into a self-sustained sector: While operating mines are still far from
being self-sustained, significant progress was made for the sector as a whole towards achieving
sustainability through the closure of more than 70 mines (by the time of the last tranche release), a number
significantly larger than agreed under the program. This development objective has therefore been achieved.
(c) To improve the productivity of the coal sector: Despite the closure of 49 mines during the period 1995
to 1999, coal production fell by only 3%. Over the same period, both total employment and employment of
industrial production workers fell by 24%, corresponding to an increase in the labor productivity of the
sector of 27 %. This development objective has therefore been achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs of the revised components are fully satisfactory. The closure of more than 70 uneconomic
mines is a very significant output that exceeds expectations and more than compensates for the
non-achievement of some of the original components. In the following, the significance of outputs from all
original components are described.
* Division of all mines into four categories: The Ministry of Coal grouped the mines into four categories
as agreed. However, the significance of this categorization was largely reduced through
non-enforcement of restrictions for operating subsidies and investments.
- 3-



*   Performance contract system for category 2 and 3 mines: A performance contract system was
introduced in 1997. By the second quarter of 1997, some 57% of the managers of the 210 mine
administration units had signed performance contracts, with this percentage rising to 93% by the end of
the year. Performance contracts were also signed with 34 directors of holding companies. Enforcement
appears to have been effective: during 1998, there were 19 dismissals of mine administration unit
managers and 8 dismissals of holding company directors for contract violations.
*   Corporatization of category I and 2 mines: All category I and 2 mines were corporatized at the level
of administration units, and are managed by the Ministry through 19 holding companies and 9
production associations. The intention was for the viable mines to be allocated to the holding
companies and the unviable mines to the production associations. However, little progress has been
made in merging and closing holding companies and production associations to streamline the
management of the sector and create viable mining companies or mine groupings.
*   Supervision of category 3 mines by Ministry of Coal Industry: Category 3 mines are being supervised
by the Ministry of Coal, as are most category 1 and 2 mines. The intended separation of category 3
mines from category I and 2 mines was only partly implemented.
*  Abolition of all restrictions on coal exports: All restrictions on coal exports have been removed.
However, because of other distortions, the removal had limited impact.
*  Abolition ofprice control: Price control has been abolished. However, the full potential impact could
not be achieved due to rampant barter trade and non-payment for coal.
*   Restrictions for subsidies to category 2 and 3 mines: The agreed restrictions (on recruitment and wage
increases) as a condition for receiving operating subsidies have been enforced for category 2 and 3
mines through the system of performance contracts with the managers of the mine administration units.
Although there have been contract violations, severe violations have been dealt with by the dismissal of
mine managers (see above). The constraint on recruitment contributed to the decline of 24% in the
number of industrial production workers noted earlier. The restriction on investment in these mines was
only partly observed, and some investment support was made available to both category 2 and category
3 mines. The amounts were, however, small because of the overall budgetary restrictions.
*   Restrictions for investments in category I mines: The system of investment support being provided as
repayable loans at the National Bank of Ukraine discount rate (as set out in the Letter of Coal Sector
Policy) was generally not implemented, and most investment support continued to be provided on a
grant basis. Furthermore, with only a small number of exceptions, the 76 category 1 mines continued to
receive operating cost subsidies.
- Coal sector budget for 1997: The coal sector budget funds for 1997 were provided by the Government
in the agreed total amount; however the use of funds deviated from the program insofar as less funding
was provided for restructuring and more for operating subsidies and investments. Also, the explicit
condition of not increasing the payables of mines beyond the level of August 1996 could not be
achieved.
*   Closure of 40 mines in a socially and environmentally satisfactory manner: This output has been
achieved and exceeded.
*   Divestiture of the social assets of 100 mines: Limited progress has been made on the transfer of social
assets to municipalities. Only 6% of the kindergartens, 8% of the cultural facilities and 19% of the
housing had been transferred as at January 1, 2000. Most of these transfers have been taking place at
closing mines, and apart from the mines of the Coal Pilot Project, have been concentrated in four
production associations. A key issue has been the refusal of regional administrations to take
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the social assets without adequate budgetary
support.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
-4 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the SECAL had little impact on improving the institutional framework for operating mines, it had a
significant positive impact in strengthening the institutional capacity for mine closures. The mine closure
agency UDKR became a unique institution which, largely thanks to the SECAL, executed its tasks
competently and successfully despite political attacks and budget shortages.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
During the implementation period of the program, international coal prices continued to decline. While the
impact on implementation and outcome of the SECAL may be very limited (mainly because of
non-payment for coal, see next paragraph), it contributed to the fact that not even the best mines are
competitive in the export markets and that more mines than originally expected need to be closed in the
longer run.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Non-payment and barter trade are systemic throughout the state sector in the Ukrainian economy and go far
beyond the problems of the coal sector. For the Coal SECAL, non-payment for coal has been the single
most important factor with negative impact on implementation and outcome, in particular relating to the
better part of the coal mining industry. In 1998, only about 30% of coal was paid for in cash. The majority
of the coal is traded in barter, mostly in multi-party deals involving electricity generators and distributors.
A substantial portion of the coal (an estimated 8%) is not paid for at all. The cash receipts from coal sales
are significantly below the needs for paying miners' wages. Except for one or two mines, this is true even
for the best mines with the lowest production costs. For political and social reasons, the Government
continues to grant production subsidies, with first priority applied to wage payments for practically all
mines, thus leading to violation of the agreement not to pay subsidies to category I and 2 mines. Despite
the subsidies, no mine is in a comfortable financial situation. Wage arrears, on average 6 months, range
between 2 and 10 months. They have been and continue to be the cause of frequent strikes. Non-wage debt
of the mines increased dramatically because of the non-payment for coal and despite the subsidies. Indeed,
in 1997, the increase in net payables represented an additional hidden subsidy to the sector of
approximately half that provided as open budget subsidies. By January 1, 1999, the total net payables of
the coal industry had increased to about UAH5, 106 million, or 30% higher than the level of payables
agreed under the SECAL. This is another violation of the agreements, caused substantially by non-payment
for coal and aggravated by apparently high dealer profits and corruption in the opaque and economically
inefficient barter trade.
Established regulations and procedures increased the time and costs of mine closures. There are too many
regulations and similar legal instruments (orders and decisions) at various levels of the Government
(President's Office, Cabinet of Ministers, Line Ministries). These legal instruments are often general and
ambiguous, in some cases even contradictory. Some outdated regulations of the Soviet era, including mine
safety rules, have been a hindrance to fast and efficient mine closures.
In public, the Government has been largely silent on coal sector reform. Even when faced with false and
damaging media reports, the Government did normally not come forward with coherent public information
on coal sector restructuring and explanations of the rationale. Lack of a coherent reform policy and public
information may have favored political opposition to coal sector reform.
- 5 -



5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MCI, as the main implementing agency, did not provide adequate budget transfers to UDKR for fast and
efficient mine closures. Under the pressure of a tight budget, MCI had to manage a compromise between
two financially conflicting tasks: keeping the discontent of miners in operating mines under control, and
achieving progress in restructuring, i.e., the closing of uneconomic mines. In order to exit from this
situation and build the basis for a future sustainable coal sector, the budget for restructuring must be given
absolute priority.
A key role in preparation and supervision of mine closures has been allocated to the design institutes. While
the technical knowledge and capacity of these institutes is appreciated, they also exercised bureaucratic
power with a negative impact on time and costs of mine closures. Although MCI has full control over the
design institutes, it chose not to redefine the design institutes' role.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As an adjustment operation, the Coal SECAL does not maintain a cost estimate and a financing plan. The
Government, through MOF, disbursed an acceptable overall budget for the coal sector. However, within in
this overall budget, the executing agency MCI did not give the necessary absolute priority to the funding of
mine closures (see comment under Section 5.3).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Unlikely rating has been given on the basis that the policies as pursued under the original SECAL
design will probably also in the near future not be fully implemented. Even the mine closures that were
successfully implemented under the restructured SECAL are, in the short run, unlikely to be continued at
the rate established under the SECAL, given indications from the latest (June 2001) changes in the
Government. However, it is considered inevitable that mine closures will continue in the longer run. While
the sector as a whole is still far from being sustainable, the irreversibility of the mine closures effected
under the SECAL is a significant step achieved towards sustainability of the sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For the sector, it is too early to think of transition arrangements to regular operation. Several more mine
closure programs of the size of the program supported under the SECAL would have to be implemented
before the continuing mines could operate in an adequate market environment. To achieve this final goal as
soon as possible, the key action is now to improve the closure procedures and apply the lessons learned
from the SECAL for the next round of mine closures.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Bank lending performance is regarded as satisfactory, despite the acceptance of conditions for the original
second tranche release that proved to be unrealistic. The loan was processed on a timely schedule in order
to address the Governnent's balance of payment needs and to seize an opportunity for a bold step forward
in the Government's restructuring of the coal sector. The Bank's preparation of the project entailed
agreement on the coal sector budget for 1997, which was an important step to achieve consensus among
different branches of the Government. The first tranche was disbursed promptly. When it had become
evident that some conditions tied to the budget and the operation of continuing mines proved to be
unrealistic and could not be met, the Bank entered timely into discussions with the Borrower to restructure
the loan. While there have been delays in effectiveness of the amendment and the disbursement of individual
- 6 -



new tranches, this was not under the Banks control (effectiveness was delayed due to late ratification by
Parliament, and some tranches were delayed because of unsatisfactory status of the macro-economic
framework).
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the loan was intensive and highly improved by the active involvement of the Kiev Resident
Mission in following-up with different Government branches on critical steps for fulfillnent of tranche
release conditions. In mid-1999, the project has been subject of a Rapid Supervision Assessment by the
Quality Assurance Group. The assessment of the supervision was a clear 'Satisfactory'.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall performance of the Bank is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparing the project is regarded as satisfactory, despite the projection of
unrealistic sector performance criteria at the time of appraisal and the adoption of a mine classification
system that proved not to be implementable. The Borrower brought into operation its newly created closure
agency UDKR with remarkable speed and efficiency. An adequate initial number of mines was transferred
to UDKR for closure without major problems.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
For the most part, Government implementation performance was satisfactory. Concerning the non-payment
for coal, it may have been difficult for the Government to control this phenomenon specifically in the coal
sector, but a more rigorous dealing with the consequences might have been possible and useful. Concerning
the over-regulation and bureaucracy, the Government and UDKR, in some instances, have demonstrated
remarkable flexibility to go ahead with the mine closures. However, in other cases decisions took
inordinately long. Also, the Government did not adequately react to false and damaging media reports
concerning coal sector restructuring.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Although not stipulated in the Loan Agreement, the implementation of the program was executed by three
agencies: UDKR, MCI and MOF. While UIDKR performed remarkably well under the constraints and
political attacks it had to deal with, MCI's and MOFs implementation performance was satisfactory only
for the most part. Although MCI did not provide UDKR with the agreed budget and did not change the role
of the design institutes, it did transfer the mines to UDKR as agreed and it always kept control over
UDKR's performance. While MOF became actively involved under the pressure of a tranche release, it
could have intervened faster and more vigorously to advance the implementation of the Municipal Credit
Line.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Special agency for mine closures. The creation of UDKR has been a key to the success of the Coal
SECAL. There have been closures by mining companies but they were not finished and normally these
mines ended up with UDKR to complete the task. The SECAL implementation also has shown that an
agency like UDKR needs to be protected. There have been attempts by the coal industry and by local
administrations to abolish or weaken UDKR. Furthermore, the agency should have its own fully secured
- 7 -



I,udget.
In oestmnett versus adjustment operation. If restructuring depends critically on adequate financing, an
investment operation is preferable over an adjustment operation.
Realistic goai seWttng. The selection of financial performance criteria for the restructuring of an old
industiial sector should be avoided. Instead, simple physical criteria that can be achieved and easily
monitored should he preferred.
9. Partner Comments
(a,' Borrower/implementing agency.
Detailed comments from the Borrower can be found in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other parrners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
A detailed list of additional available documentation on the project can be found in Annex 7.
- 8 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Not applicable.
-9-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable.
- 10-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 1 1 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Ilmplementation  Development
Month/Year    Count               Specialty                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1996                     3    Task Manager, Economist,
Englineer
June 1996                       6   Task Manager, Economist,
Engineer, Institutional
Specialist, Restructuring
Specialist, Labor Specialist
Supervision
January 1997                    5   Task Manager, Economist,                S               S
Engineer, Restructuring
Specialist, Operations
Officer
April 1997                      6   Task Manager, Economist,                U               S
Engineer, Restructuring
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
September 1997                  5   Task Manager, Economist,                U              U
Engineer, Restructuring
Specialist, Operations Officer
December 1997                   3   Task Manager, Economist,                U               U
Operations Assistant
May 1998                        6   Task Manager, Restructuring             U              U
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist, Micro-Financing
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
July 1998                       5   Task Manager, Restructuring             U               S
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
October 1998                    4   Task Manager, Institutional             U               S
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
January 1999                    5   Task Manager, Restructuring             U               S
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
April 1999                      5   Task Manager, Restructuring             S               S
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
June 1999                       4   Task Manager, Institutional             S               S
Specialist, Labor Specialist,
Operations Officer
- 12 -



December 1999                3   Task Manager, Labor Specialist,    S             S
Operations Officer
ICR
February 2001               2    Task Manager, Operations
Officer
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               33.9                       147.7
Supervision                             150.6                       441.3
ICR                                       6.0                        25.0
Total                                   232.0                       722.7
- 13-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
EI Macro policies                        O H  O SU O M  O N  O NA
? Sector Policies                        OH  * SU OM  O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
Oi Other (Please specify)         OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
El Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Public sector management               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
Oi Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-14-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
• Lending                                             O HS OS OU OHU
• Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
N Overall                                             OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
? Preparation                                         OHS OS   0  U  O HU
• Government implementation performance               O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
• Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  0  U  O HU
N Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 15 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Memorandum of the President
Letter of Coal Sector Policy
Loan Agreement
Memorandum of the President on a Proposed Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Amendments to Loan Agreement
Back-to-office reports
Project Status Reports
Tranche Release Memoranda
Quality of Supervision Assessment
Ukrainian language version of Borrower's Comments
- 16 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
(Unofficial translation)
REPORT
on the Results of Completion of the Coal Sector
Adjustment Project (Loan #4118-UA)
1. Achieving Program Objectives
Defining objectives of the Coal Sector Restructuring Program
Since the objectives, structure and efficiency of project implementation were different at the first stage
(phase) (which was carried out in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Coal Sector Adjustment
Loan Agreement concluded between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and signed on December 12, 1996) and at the second stage (the implementation conditions of
which are determined by the Amendments to the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan Agreement, signed on
September 15, 1998), it is pertinent to review the two stages of project implementation separately on the
basis of the most results obtained.
At the time Ukraine started cooperation with the World Bank in the coal industry, this sector had been for
several years in an acute crisis. The level of budget subsidizing of the sector throughout 1995 totaled UAH
37 million, and amounted to UAH 1 billion in 1996. The accounts payable increased from UAH 572
million as of January 1, 1995, to UAH 3,012 million as of January 1, 1996. The product cost rose from
36.4 UAH/t in 1995 to 66.9 UAH/t in 1996. Ukraine's mine stock was actually the worst in all CIS
countries: 98 mines (33%) were put in service in the pre-war years, including 50 mines (17%)
commissioned before 1917. The buildup of negative factors necessitated the carrying out of reform in the
coal sector. The basic principles of this reform were defined in the Enactment of the President of Ukraine,"
On Restructuring of the Coal Sector," dated February 7, 1996.
The World Bank's support for reforms in the sector may be qualified as opportune. The results of
implementation of the Coal Sector Adjustment Project confirmed the correctness of the course chosen by
the Govemment and aimed at creating of a reduced-scale sector that would be more effective and attractive
for private capital, and at the same time independent of state support.
Achieving of Objectives of the Project First Stage
At the Project first stage, the following main results were attained in implementing sector reforms:
*   the coal market was liberalized (the coal trade monopoly organizations were liquidated, price
limitations of coal trade were cancelled, coal export restrictions were lifted; coal import restrictions
were insignificant and could not affect the development of competition);
*   competitive environment conditions were provided for coal producers (coal-mining and coal-processing
enterprises, state holding companies, production associations, independent mines, as well as other
sector enterprises and private companies really compete in the coal product market);
*   the scope of the sector was reduced by closing the largest loss-making coal-mining enterprises,
separation of non-basic production facilities from the coal-mining and coal-dressing enterprises, and
privatization of these facilities, as well as by the transfer of social facilities from enterprises to local
governments.
- 17-



At the same time, it should be noted that the accounts payable of the enterprises increased from UAH 3,012
million (as of January 1, 1996) to UAH 8,812 million (as September 1, 1999). The number of profitable
coal-mining enterprises in the sector diminished and the amount of back wages increased.
The above-referenced negative factors were conditioned by the general economic crisis in Ukraine, failures
to pay for shipped products (that was especially the case in the fuel and power sector), and the weakness of
the Ukrainian credit and financial system. Therefore, a number of external negative factors were a serious
obstacle to successful project implementation.
The effect of these factors could be reduced only by reviewing the project terms and conditions. It must be
noted that the situation was adequately assessed by the World Bank and the Ukrainian side and both sides
took a constructive approach during the project review.
Defining and Assessment of the Project Second Stage Objectives
The project objectives as established by the Amendments to the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan Agreement
were developed more thoroughly, being almost not dependent upon the effects of the above-mentioned
external negative factors.
The support for the closure of loss-making rnines and their physical liquidation, payment of all statutory
benefits to laid-off workers, as well as the mitigation of ecological effects of restructuring can be qualified
as a civilized and necessary step to the creation of a more compact and effective sector. Providing the
required conditions for creating jobs for former miners in the mine closure regions, as well as rendering
support for local authorities who took over the social facilities of the mines under closure, made it possible
to partially compensate for their material and moral losses due to restructuring of Ukraine's coal industry.
All these factors allowed us to mitigate social tension in the coal regions and to diminish the opposition to
the sector restructuring on the part of trade unions and local governments.
Achieving of the Project Second Stage Objectives
The objectives determined by the Amendments can be considered as having been completely attained. The
closure of mines and their physical liquidation were carried out successfully. The closure rates were
considerably accelerated, which, in turn, had a positive effect on reducing the value of closure procedures.
The necessary social payments were made. In order to support the creation of new jobs and to facilitate the
process of transfer of social facilities of the mines under closure to local governments, two credit lines were
introduced and began to function which helped finance the profit-making projects of private enterprises in
the production sphere, and the municipality projects aimed at improving the living conditions of residents in
the corresponding regions.
Achieving the Objectives of the Coal Sector Restructuring Program
Within the framework of the project, a reduction in the general size of the coal sector was achieved
(including 32 loss-making mines that were physically liquidated) practically without lowering the level of
coal production, which resulted in:
*   reduction in the amounts of state subsidies (state support for loss-making coal-mining enterprises) from
more than US$ 500 million in 1996 (UAH 1 billion) down to approximately US$ 245 rnillion (pursuant
to the plan for 1999 - UAH 1.1 billion; as of December 15, 1999, UAH 1.08 billion was used);
*   reduction in the product cost from US$ 33 per ton (50.49 UAH/t) in 1996 to less than US$ 23 (for the
first 9 months of 1999 - 98.42 UAH/t);
*   increase in labor productivity from 16.5 tons per month for one worker in 1996 up to 21.3 tlmonth over
- 18 -



the first 11 months of 1999.
2. Structure of Coal Sector Adjustment Project
Assessment of Project Structure at the First Stage
As was noted in the previous section, at the first stage the project structure provided for implementation of
measures to reform the coal industry in many areas:
* liberalization of market and creation of favorable conditions of competition;
*   restructuring of the sector and privatizing of enterprises;
*   market-oriented investment policy;
*   closure of economically unsustainable mines;
*   mitigation of social effects of restructuring.
One cannot but note the topicality of the program objectives at this stage. This influenced the
implementation of the preparatory stage of work on the project. Being too optimistic about improving, e.g.,
the profitability indicators of group 2 mines (potentially profitable), without taking measures to carry out
technical modemnization and all-round restructuring of these enterprises under conditions of the payment
crisis in the state, could not but affect the results of this project stage. The same can be said of the
expectation of the development prospects of group 1 mines. Due to lack of state support under conditions
of nonpayments and the Ukrainian banking system's failure to credit long-term and relatively large (as to
their volume) projects, most of these mines have worsened their economic indicators.
An analysis of this situation allows one to draw a number of conclusions regarding the drawbacks in the
preparation of the project first stage:
*   the action group in the Ministry of the Coal Industry of Ukraine (a limited one) who were actively
involved in project preparation could not be absolutely competent in all areas of knowledge required to
prevent unrealistic assumptions;
- other specialists from the Ministry of the Coal Industry were not involved in the project preparation to
the same extent as the action group was, because of the great amount of other work to be done;
*   World Bank specialists assessed the situation in the state and the sector not quite adequately, which
resulted in unrealistic demands and insistence on their implementation.
Assessment of Project Structure at Second Stage
The experience gained in implementing the first stage of the project allowed the Ukrainian side and the
World Bank to assess the situation adequately and to prepare an effective and realistic package of terms
and conditions that were completely fulfilled.
Government's support
The Government's support for the sector reforms was consistent; the negative factors included insufficient
amounts of financing for restructuring (the measures related to mine closure, transfer of social facilities to
local governments, and ecological effects of sector restructuring).
3. Effectiveness of Ukraine's Fulfillment of Its Commitments
- 19 -



At the first stage of the project, Ukraine fulfilled a number of basic obligations. It should be noted that
Ukraine is carrying out the reforming of the coal sector under conditions of the acute social and economic
crisis. The obligations set out in the Government's Statement "On the Strategy in the Coal Sector," the
fulfillment of which was affected by this crisis to only a small extent, i.e. primarily the normative and
administrative measures, were fulfilled rather successfully, notably:
*   The normative limitations of coal trade were lifted;
*   The mines were divided into 4 groups by the level of profitability;
*   State holding companies were set up;
*   State company UkrVughleRestrukturyzatsiya was created;
*   Provision of production subsidies to Group 1 mines was discontinued;
*   Most of the enterprises that are not technologically related to coal production were not included in the
state holding companies, and privatized;
*   Ukraine did not finance capital investments in the new mines the construction of which was not
stipulated by the National Power Program;
*   Considerable work was carried out to close loss-making mines;
*   An item designated as "expenditures for restructuring the coal industry" was introduced in the state
budget;
*   The actual amounts of state subsidies for the coal sector enterprises were substantially reduced.
At the same time, the measures the implementation of which was affected by the crisis in Ukraine to a
greater extent, were carried out not quite successfully. The lack of financial resources necessary to ensure
implementation of the full-scale program of reforming the coal industry created additional difficulties in
fulfilling by the Ukrainian side of its obligations. As of the end of 1997,
*   28, instead of 40, coal mines were transferred to UDKR (Ukrainian State Company for Restructuring
Coal Industry Enterprises);
* the social facilities of the mines under closure were not fully transferred to the local governments;
*   the increase in the accounts payable of coal sector enterprises was not stopped;
*   the program for mitigating social effects of mine closure was not put into effect, including the creation
of new jobs;
o   the requirement that the group 2 mines should be removed from the distribution of the sector mine stock
was not met.
The objective factors that largely contributed to the incomplete implementation of the project
conditionalities were identified in the previous sections. It is pertinent to note that the insufficient desire,
and unpreparedness, of the mine management to carry out restructuring and rationalizing of their
enterprises was one of the subjective factors that had a negative effect on the results of project
implementation.
Implementation of the conditionalities specified by the Amendments to the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
Agreement was complete. It should be also noted that the negative factors included a slow implementation
of the Credit Line for micro-, small and medium enterprises, and the Municipal Credit Line, which was
due, among other reasons, to the insufficient institutional support for the process of creating new jobs in the
coal-mining regions (we mean the support rendered by technical assistance projects in all coal-mining
regions in preparing and implementing subprojects, the program for retraining of former miners, etc), as
well as to the insufficient experience of the local administration personnel in preparing acceptable
packages of documents for obtaining subloans.
- 20 -



During the two years that the Credit Lines have been in existence (1999-2001), 35 projects have been
approved to the total sum of around US$15.0 million and currently are under implementation:
*   The Municipal Credit Line - US$5.1 million, including US$2,583.1 thousand in the Luhansk oblast,
US$2,074.6 thousand in Donetsk oblast, US$300.2 thousand in Lviv oblast, US$129.5 thousand in
Volyn oblast;
*   the credit line to support micro-, small and medium enterprises - US$10,3 million, including
US$1,441.8 thousand in Donetsk oblast, US$2,200,0 thousand in Dnipropetrovsk, US$1,268.1
thousand in Lviv oblast, US$3,402.7 thousand in Zhytomyr oblast, US$1,612.5 thousand in Volyn
oblast, US$175 thousand in Cherkassy oblast.
The Coal Sector Adjustment Loan was closed on December 31, 2000, but the credit lines were prolonged
until all the funds in the accounts opened for implementation of these credit lines have been used.
Eight projects for the Luhansk oblast to the total amount of US$ 2.1 million are currently under review
pending approval. As of today, the borrowers have already retumed US$123,5 thousand of the principal
loan amount and paid US$ 346.3 thousand for servicing the obtained loans.
Despite the fact that a number of current problems arose during project implementation, the steadiness of
the Ukrainian Government's course aimed at expediting and deepening the restructuring processes in the
coal sector is beyond question.
4. World Bank Activities
Assessment of the World Bank's work related to the preparation and supervision of project implementation
as a whole is positive.
The not quite adequate assessment by the Bank of Ukraine's social and economic conditions in the process
of preparing the project first stage had a negative effect on the project viability. However, the subsequent
work on the project (regular visits of supervision missions to Ukraine, identifying of problems that arose in
fulfilling the project condionalities, assessment of their possible effect on the project development,
providing recommendations for resolving them) was productive and effective.
The practice of preparing aide-memoires based on the results of missions' work enabled one to clearly
understand the Bank's position during the entire period of project realization and to focus on the priorities
of its implementation.
It is especially important to note the constructive approach of the World Bank to the review of the project
conditionalities with an aim of concentrating efforts on implementing the main restructuring tasks.
Reallocating part of the loan funds for direct financing of measures aimed at mitigating the social
consequences of the coal sector restructuring also had a positive effect on the World Bank's image in the
sector and coal-mining regions.
- 21 -



