Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 24298
PROJEC T~T~T~ PERFORASA NTCE" A CS'vfNFhA T Ar PORTM IT'
UKRAINE
COAL PILOT PROJECT AND
COATL SECTOR An1TJlTMF.NT LOAN
(LOANS 4016 AND 4118)
June 12, 2002
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evauation Depart,ent



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
.1       r . r_. _ I r I  r r s AFY
Currency unLt = 7ryvnia (UAHn)
2000                  US$i.00              UAH 5.5
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CSSMP          Coal Sector Social Mitigation Project
TNr'`r         -r -- T-                  r     -- -Try,
Djriv        LDepanrrnt ror iniernatiuonai uevevopment, u. K.
DOA            Donetsk Oblast (state government) Administration
iCR            Implementation Completion Report
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MCI            Ministry of Coal Industry
MDI            Mining Design Institute
MFE            Ministry of Fuel and Energy
MOF            Ministry of Finance
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR           Proiect Performance Assessment Report
QAG            Quality Assurance Group
SAR           Staff Annrailsa Renort
UDKR           Ukrainian State Company for Coal Sector Restructuring
Fiscal Year
Government:           Januarv 1 - December 31
I Director-General, Operations Evaluation              Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department            Mr. Gregory Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation            : Mr. Alain Barbu
I Task Manager                                         Mr. Andres Liebenthal



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Otfice of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June i2, 2w02
MEMORAN-DUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Assessment Report on Ukraine Coal Pilot Project
(Loan 4016) and Coal Sector Adjustment Project (Loan 4118)
Attached is the Proiect Performance Assessment Renort on two nroiects in Ukraine: the
Coal Pilot Project and Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL). The Coal Pilot Project was
supported by loan of US$15.8 millionn which became effective on August 28, 1996, and closed
on December 31, 2000; US$3.1 million was cancelled. The Coal SECAL was supported by a
loan of US$300 million, which came effective on December 27, l 996 a.nd closed, A1-A1
disbursed, on June 30, 2000.
The two projects were intended as the first phase of a long-term program to restructure
and rationalize Ukraine's coal sector. The objective of the Pilot Project was to demonstrate the
feasibility of mitigating the social and environmental consequences of the mine closure process in
three pilot mine closures. The main objective of the SECAL was to support the government's
coal sector reform program, whose long-run objective was to close 40 mines that were not
financially viable so that the sector could become self-sustaining. Bank support was designed to
help the government finance measures to mitigate the social and economic dislocation that the
mine closings would cause. In addition, the government had agreed to restrict investment
allocations to economic investments in profitable mines and make subsidy allocations only to
potentially viable mines. The SECAL was restructured in 1998 to allow the government more
time to implement the closure nrogram. The restructured program tied tranche release conditions
much more closely to success in implementing the closure program. The restructured loan
drnnnpp   nil the Anjni,tiintlitu. rpeltite to limiting the ,nviont andi tyinp nf fninar.ial csiupprt that the
government would give to mines that continued to operate.
The outcome of both projects was satisfactory. Project objectives for both projects were
highly relevant tu tne neeus oi the country and the sector. Tne tnree mines in tne Pilot Project were
efficiently closed, with care taken to fully implement the agreed environmental mitigation
measures. During implementation of tne SECAL, more than 70 coai mines were closed (through
the end of 2000) and the worst of the social consequences of the mine closure program were
mitigated. The SECAL was unsuccessful in its efforts to establish a mechanism for maintaining the
social infrastructure that had previously been the responsibility of the closed mines. Nor was it
successful in supporting the creation of a sufficiency of new long-term employment opportunities.
The sustainability of the benefits anticipated from Pilot Project is rated as highly
likely. The high-cost mines have been permanentlv closed, and the lessons learned have been
applied to the country's broader mine closure program. The situation for the SECAL is more
comnlex though the .csutainabilitv of itc henefitc is rated ac likeliv Seventv Tf TkrainPe'
worst- performing mines were closed, resulting in substantial gains in average sector productivity
as well as the elimm,nat.ion of the su.bsidie previously rq ir  t p these mines o
LW  fl%  .ihfliflUtftJfl  iitif.~OIAJOLiL..  jJt.VLtUOJ  L%,%JULL.tJ LU  a"'tjF  LAIIL,aL, I Ui4  p.



2
The sustainability of these benefits is highly likely. However, political conditions have
lpri the gnv mIment tn stpn hnar frnm its fnrmnl rcn,mitmAnt tn a csretar rpectnirtlr,ng nr o.ran
Thus the new sector policies leave in doubt the long-term sustainability of the sector restructuring
prograrn- Pue...oe co,runt1 a.on         gtecos A mie -u likel to otiu to
p  ia L.  UL LLLI LIUJt&., L.UIiUIIU1iiLLL.. a U ali'JULIUIlJr U.IV,~,  --U   1111. III 3 aiu IL- 1  Lu %LUIILJJ1U- LV
experience economic hardships. They have been unable to attract sufficient new job-creating
eriterpnses, anucont-iiiue io experieiice uifiicuities in maintaining teir sociai inTfdsErucIurC. Inc
assessment rating for the SECAL puts more weight on the sector gains achieved so far than on the
hoped-for benefits from a continued vigorous implementation of an optimum restructuring
program.
The institutional development impact of the Pilot Project is rated as substantial. A
new institution was created and new legal procedures were established to facilitate the mine closure
process. However, the institutional development impact of the SECAL was only modest. The
overriding objective of the SECAL was to support the government's long-term program to
rationalize the coal mining sector and make it economically sustainable. More than 25 percent of
the country's mines have been closed and the efficiency of the remaining mnines has greatly
inc.reased coal production workforce decrline bhv 24 nercent between 1995 and 1999, while
production declined by only 3 percent. However, Ukraine's mine closure program has a long way
to go be.fnre the secto,,cp.r  be-n cor.me econo=rmpcall,y -01f-ffic,-t. -nA .fr re   thf  n  ort4
government subsidies. The government's current official policy is that there is little need for further
setor ratUio n UEaization, that 'LUhe sCorl IIUULU sho UIILIIIUe LU rei-ve UUbII UoatiUnLg sUUbsUici -dU
investment support, and that only a few mines need to be closed. If this policy is maintained, there
is little hope for continued improvement in tne efficient, equiitabie, and sustainabie use of resources
in this sector.
Bank and borrower performance in both projects is rated as satisfactory. The Pilot
Project's quality at entry was satisfactory, as was its supervision. The quality at entry of the
SECAL was unsatisfactory because the design, a quick-disbursing, two-tranche loan, was
inappropriate for supporting the first critical stages of a politically sensitive, long-term sector
restructuring program. However, the loan was successfully restructured as series of smaller
tranches, each with simpler and more attainable release conditions, all tied to the primary project
ohiective of maintaining momentum in the mine closing nsperts of the sertor rentrhi-rincn
J     ~~~~- ------- ---
program. The supervision missions effectively ensured that the redefined tranche release
conditi.ons.wr .t
JApVIISII.G With LUllN MIUJSWL bUSCt bVCI11I Ie3UIIb IUI bI..UI jCGLUtUWIlIIg plUJe3...
*AuIV1C wuc-isbring SECI'  A 10  Sarg-eS inpropria.e vesso cles for sectorretiti-Unng petr0J'S
restructuring programs.
* SECALs in support of mine closures should be designed with several small, flexible
tranches, rather than a small number of large tranches.
*  Projects designed to support sector restructuring should have a clear focus on poverty
reduction objectives.
*  The financial and economic performance of pilot project activities needs to be
carefully monitored.
*  The Bank needs to make greater efforts help improve the efficiency of mine closure
activities.
*  The Bank should consider working more closely with other bilateral and multilateral
agencies that are providing seed money for establishing local cooperatives and oiner
self-help institutions.
Attachment



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and secori, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selectina operations for assessment, Dreference is aiven to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
Project Per'lormr.ance Assessrimeni Repor[ (PPAR) is based on a review of tie irnplerLentation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs. OED staff examine Droject files and other documents, interview oDerational staff. and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
nDOAM   :_     I-_... I-. - -- - -  _:1-_ ___  _ _J _ -  __1 rtAS:.
U rrto I vlVlWCU uy Li LIC 1X:>b1UIIblUit Ddllrt Ut:Pdl ilI Illt dOU dlIulU :U :d> llne-babSadly. ThU CM lIpIleteLU rrmAR lb t'len
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Ratinn S  astem
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, proiect design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http:l/woridbank.orgioedieta-mainpage.htmi).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current Udevelopment prioritiebs ad with curreIIt DdIIn cuntry aiid sectoral assistance srategies aIud corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratinas: Hiah. Substantial, Modest. Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustalnabflity: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluabie.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
tLo rIliakre moreI IuUlYet-11, equiia;ue and susUiatinab; Iu of iis human, financia;, and natura; resources throuyh: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacitv of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
'U'rsatisf Cttonj, Unstsacoy---, Ustsfcoy
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
21 -nprtAd  imNAA A pi --- " - IPAw th IAA  O  rApp  pit  AllA- -i-mentsl AAAX fIItA A AA  ^A  tA+^A Yr%A
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ...................................................................v
Key Staff Responsible ..................................................................v
Preface ..................................................................                                         vii
1.   Economic Background ...................................................................1
Bank Involvement ......................................................................I
2.   Project Design ...................................................................2
The Coal Pilot Project ......................................................................2
The Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL) ......................................................................3
3.   Project inplementation ...................................................................3
SECAL Restructuring ......................................................................5
Soci!SJf.~&IA&L~IAJtflJ~ A  JISV **t.tont        .......................................................................S
Rehabilitation of Social Infrastructure .          .....................................................................6
Benefits to Local Population: Efforts at Job Creation and Municipal Costs Reduction .... 6
Environment ......................................................................7
4.   Project Results: Ratings ..................................................................8
Relevance: Were the Project Objectives the Right Ones? .......................           ........................... 6
flirrv      id tho Prniprt.v Arliipvp thoirq.tntod nlhiortji,pv                                          9
E>fficecy: Did~~~~~~~~~~~ .h P.ojcsAheeter5td                    bciv ............... ... ........................................ 
Efficiency: Was the Project Cost Effective? ......................................................................9
Institutional Development Impact: Has the Project Led to Better Management of Human
aFAlU Resourcetsu             ..        .        ............................................................  If
Outcome ...............................................................                                  10
Sustainability: Are the Results Likely to Last ? .              .............................................................  II
Bank Performance                                  .          .          .         .)................................ 11
Borrower Performance ...........               ..................................       ................. 13
W    lsec        and Recommeandatint-nne                                                                           I 
A        A    2-e        . ng ) eik-+                                                                              117
AssiA A. a;XW a sv>> ... ....................................................... *@*.*.......... .¢e44e*.................  * . .********.................... .  * 
I nis report was preparea by Kicnard Berney (tuonsuitant), who assessed the project in January 2002. l ne
report was edited by William Hurlbut, and Soon-Won Pak provided administrative support.                                l






v
Principal Ratings
ICR'                    ES'                    PAR
Coal Pilot Project (Loan 4iO6)j
Outcome                              Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Sustainability                         Likely                  Likely               Highly Likely
Institutional Development Impact        High                   High                 Substantial
Bank Performance                     Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory            Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 4118)
Outcome                              Satisfactory            Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Sustainability                        Unlikely                Unlikely                 Likely
Institutional Development Impact     Substantial             Substantial              Modest
Bank Performance                     Satisfactory         Highly Satisfa.cory       Saisfactory
Borrower Performance                 Satfsfactory            Satisfactory           Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an Intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Respon.sible
Prolect                         Task Manager/Leader          Division Chiet/       Country Director
Sector Director
Coal Pilot Proiect (Loan 411flR
Appraisal                           J. Balkind               T. Blinkhom            Basil Kavalsky
Completion                        Heinz Hendriks            A. David Craig          Luca Barbone
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 4118)
Appraisal                        Jonathan Walters         Dominique Lallement       Basil Kavalsky
C-ompletlo,                       He-inz rHendr,s           A. Daviu Craig          Luca Barbone
.. U...                                                      u ....y






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on two coal projects in Ukraine. Loan
4016 for the Coal Pilot Project was approved for US$15.8 million on May 16, 1996, and became
effective on August 28, 1996. The loan closed on December 31, 2000 and US$3.1 million was
cancelled. Loan 4118 for the Coal Sector Adjustment Loan was approved for US$300 million on
December I1, 1996, and became effective on December 27, 1996. The loan closed, fully
disbursed, on June 30, 2000.
The PPAR presents the findings of a mission to Ukraine January 16-31, 2002, by the World Bank
Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The mission gathered data and interviewed officials of
the Government of Ukraine, staff of the project, the Bank, and NGOs. The cooperation and
assistanc-e of all sfke-hn1dprv and gonvpmmP.nt nffrirind ie arntpefilliv nrlnnuwlpdatd In 2,lrditinn
the PPAR draws on the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 15351, April 20, 1996), President's
1D  -.* #D--*^ NTo. P6969, November; 15, I996,< Drpeeto Comleio Reprt ID---.
eF a  kRepoiLL xiU  iL U'U', -_UIItUJ  I aJ I  ItIy1L .zt~IL au'ICLIJIJ I. -'IIIjJI%,L%Jl) I X%I)JiL~ L3L4~J
No. 22302, June 25, 2001, and Report No. 22236, June 25, 2001); and other related studies.
Following standard OED procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review. No comments were received.






1.     Economic Background
1.1    The Ukrainian mining sector has been in acute crisis since the collapse of the Soviet
system. In 1990, Ukraine had 276 operating mines. Many were extremely old, with their
economically recoverable reserves essentially fully depleted: fully one-third of them were opened
before 1940, and half of these were opened before 1917. Between 1990 and 1995 coal production
declined by 50 percent, to 80 million tons per annum (mtpa), while exports fell by almost 90
percent, to 2.4 million tons. However, few mines actually closed during this period. By 1995,
production per worker had fallen to 105 tons of washed coal per day (tpd), compared with 200 tpd
in Russia, 400 tpd in Poland, and 2000 tpd in the U.K. Following independence, the
government's plans for the sector continued to ignore productivity problems, focusing instead on
finding ways to increase coal production.' This program required the continuation of massive
direct suhbidies to the sector.
1 .    SubhsidiPe peSked in 1 0Q0t at 8. ' fpercpnt of the govrnp.enmni budAgt (ahntit A --pe nt of
GDP). These costs were unsustainable. The resources absorbed by the sector were needed for
o+ther prssngscial and economi        Teds   I n 195 the govemlmen; decided to embark- on a
ULIlLI JJI%alllII, 3U iI aiU JAAIIILII _VLUa. III 1~77J, LIJU gUVC1IIiIII; IL U.iuU Lu cIIUI ULI
fundamental downsizing, rationalization, and consolidation of the sector, with the goals of
uliinishling thle sector's lisca'tl burden; proviuing a sociai sarety net for mineworKers and
communities affected by the downsizing; and salvaging the economically viable portion of the
industry through increased productivity. The program included the rapid closure of the most
uneconomic mines. About 40 mines were selected for closure.
1.3    This change in policy was accompanied by a rapid reduction in direct financial support to
the sector. Direct subsides declined rapidly after 1994, but this was accompanied by a parallel
rapid increase in the sector's payment arrears. By mid-1996, net arrears had risen to US$1.1
billion, 10 times the level at the end of the first quarter of 1994; wage arrears alone (including
unpaid pension and other social protection contributions) amounted to US$460 million (0.5
percent of GDP). There was a short miners strike in early February 1996 to protest overdue wage
payments.
Bank involvement
1.4   In May 1995, the government requested Bank assistance in tackling these issues in an
integrated, coordinated manner. The Bank undertook a sector review and worked with the
government on a program designed to help mitigate the social and environmental effects of mine
closures. The subsequent "Ukraine Coal Industry Restructuring Sector Report" (Report No.
I 5056-UA) estimated that the industry average unit costs needed to be reduced by at least 20
percent to make the sector competitive. The closure of the least productive 75 mines would
decrease average costs by about 9 percent, only a first step in the restructuring process.
1.5    During meetings with government officials in late 1995, Bank senior management
Offered to deliver a fast-trark operation to support sector restructuring with "social justice and
dignity." The sector report was discussed with senior government officials in January 1996 and
the stratey outlined in the report -was subsequently incorporated into the Presidential Decree
issued by the government of Ukraine in February 1996. The strategy included market
liberalization, corporatization of potentially viable nines, cIUsure of loss-making mines, social
asset divestiture, social cost mitigation, privatization of non-core activities, and eventually,
L. including the c-nstrction of 2! new mine,- - ion of IA --, and rehabilitation of 46 mi,ne.n
mines were to be closed in the 1995-2000 period, due to exhaustion of reserves.



2
privatization of profitable mines. The program was discussed at a widely publicized conference in
Kiev in Anril 1996=
1.6    The Bank acrred tn cupport thic rptnructuiing e.ffort with three projects: a Coal Pilot
Project, which would finance the costs of physical, social, and environmental activities needed to
close th  -ampl r.nes a Col- Stor- AAd.. tmeo+T- Lon    7 (EAL) to supo - the broa-e
sectoral reform program, based on the action program elaborated above (including the closure of
A   ~ U   --               -- A -   - -  1   "   --   -   " - , fl-   -*  f_l  --- -IA   --- l
40 mines over the following ewo years); adit a Coa; RestrucUr-ing Projeut, which wuu:u dir-ectly
finance the closure of 20 to 25 mines per year for another two years. The last of these projects
was appraised but was subsequently dropped before formal negotiations wnen agreement coula
not be reached on a commitment to close a specific number of mines each year.
2.     Project Design
T he Coa! Pilot . yrj-.
2.1      IIi.-vai L ITh.o L I PrJtL waZ appurvdU uy LIIth BioIaru id ivnay 1977. ILt cetr U ,bj ve was
to mitigate the social and environmental consequences that arise from mine closures, as part of an
overall restructuring program for the sector, by:
*   Testing ways to close mines, taking into account technicai, environmental, economic, and
social aspects and providing feedback on lessons learned.
*   Ensuring that mine workers could either transfer to other mines or receive reasonable
redundancy compensation (including back wages) and some assistance in finding
alternative employment.
*   Transferring social assets2 of closed mines to local governments and supporting their
rationalization, while helping to ensure that the most vulnerable groups are adequately
nrnterted in terms nf access to services.
*   Through monitoring and feedback, gain experience from the Pilot Project for subsequent
2.2     hne project components included:
*   Support for the physical closure of three mines, including environmental mitigation
measures
* Mitigation of social costs of mine closure
* Divestiture of social infrastructure (transfer of ownership to municipal authorities)
* Institutional strengthening and job counseling
*   T, echnr!a1 assictnt'~a  3
2. Social assets include primarily the housing stock owned by the mine, central heating, electricity and telephone
faciMules sports faci;ities, adil kindergar ens.
3. In (i) contracting for physical closure of works; (ii) supporting establishment and operation of UDKR; (iii)
establishing retraining programs for dismissed workers; (iv) developing environmental mnitigation plans; (v)
establishing regional economic development activities; (vi) undertaking feasibility studies for investments to increase
productivity of viable mines; (vii) creating a stratLegic public information program; (viii) implementing social
assessments for feedback; (ix) establishing a monitoring and evaluation program.



3
The Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (SECAL)
2.3    The Coal SECAL was originally proposed for fiscal 1998, to give the Bank and the
government sufficient time to absorb the lessons from the Pilot Prniicrt However the government
was under great financial stress and claimed that it would not have the financial resources needed
t- foro,w t hroug,h vnith its M-ne closure program (including t-e k,nancing of the social and
environmental mitigation programs that all felt were necessary to avoid social unrest) without
lianik suppoU.. IA.s a result, tile Bank agreedU LtoU .JUeII LSIV  - 101 WalLU LU f isali 1:997, aiiU Loo IL
to the Board in December 1996, only six months after the Coal Pilot Project was approved. It was
designed as a quick-disbursing, two-tranche loan witn the second tranche scheduled for 6 months
after the first.
2.4    The loan objective presented to the Board in the Report and Recommendations of the
President was to "provide a significant portion of Ukraine's balance of payments and budget
deficit financing needs in late 1996 and 1997, including part of the fiscal costs of restructuring the
coal sector." This objective was further explained as follows:
"The Bank's provision of the proposed loan, and its associated conditionality, would
enhance the credibility of the government's coal sector reform program. In the absence of
the loan, budgetary support to the sector would be limited, largely arrears would
accumulate, and little or no restructuring would take nlace. The lack of restructuring
would prevent the attainment of productivity improvements in the sector, deepen the
poverty nf thnos crrrpntly dependent on the sector for their livelihood, and risk
undermining macroeconomic stability through funding of growing losses in the sector."
2.5    The sector objectives were more clearly defined in the government's Letter of Coal
Se:or OnlCy aiiu In Lthe ioaii a LialCile .-elease conuditionaIlity. III Sultili.aIly, tIh cential obUJectLIVCe
was to support the government's coal sector reform program, whose long-run objective was to
close financiaily non-viable rnines so tnat the sector couid become self-sustaining. Tine
government agreed to close 40 mines under the SECAL. Bank support was designed to help the
government finance measures to mitigate the social and economic dislocation that the mine
closings would cause. The loan's conditionality was designed to achieve social mitigation and
sector restructuring goals. They included: (i) closure of non-viable mines, including ceasing
production in 24 mines and initiating formal closure procedures for 20 of these rnines by
transferring them to the Ukrainian State Company for Coal Mine Closures (UDKR) for the first
tranche, and transferring another 20 to UDKR for the second tranche;4 (ii) Mitigation of social
and environmental consequences of mine closure by ensuring that displaced miners received all
the benefits to which they were entitled: (iii) transferring the social assets of closing mining
enterprises to municipalities; (iv) restricting investment allocations to economic investments in
profitable mines andi subidyv a!n!ntinns only to potentially viable mines; and (v) maintpnanne of
accounts payable at no higher than pre-loan levels.
3.     Project Implementation
3.1    The Pilot Project. This project's central objective was to design, and implement in three
pilot miuines, a new progrnam and process for closing uneconomnic- coaul ines in a soc:iaiiy and
4. The Letter of Development Policy stated that the government plans to close at least 20 uneconomic mines per year.
in the five years since the start of the Pilot Project, the gover.ment h-s tr3nsferred 90 m.ines to UDIR for form3
closure.



4
environmentally appropriate manner. The project objectives were successfully met. UDKR was
esabs ed a asemi-au . ous Otan.e entity was established and was funde ad - effectively
staffed. It was given responsibility for the implementation of all aspects of mine closure
programs. I he closu,-e of tlhree m-nes tested andU IdIUfIeU IllIne cUsU,-e practic Lsi.ht took IIILo
account technical, environmental, economic, and social aspects of mine closure and provided
reeUdack on lessons learned. Tne miine worKers receivea aii the benefits to which tney were
entitled. The environmental effects were successfully mitigated. The social assets of the closed
mining companies were successfully transferred to the municipalities. The positive experience
and the lessons learned were useful in the subsequent restructuring of the SECAL. Efforts to
create new employment opportunities met with only limited success. The discovery of the misuse
of micro-credit funds and self-employment funds has led to a total ceasing of support for these
programs. The lessons from the Pilot Project provided an important input into the design of the
restructured SECAL. The assessment agrees with the ICR rating of proiect efficacy as substantial.
3.2    The SECAL. The first tranche measures were implemented before Board presentation.
They included: (i) limiting government budget support rules for subsidy payments and investment
financing based nn the- adontinn of foir categories of mines;5 (ii) formulatiosn of n nrogram of
mnine closures; (iii) establishment of mine closure procedures incorporating basic social and
environrmenta! mitigation measures, including legislation mandating that gove,mentt
responsibility for severance payments, statutory cash benefits to ex-mineworkers (including back
pay, seve,-ance payr,ents, disabjilty paym1enILs, anu ILUe coal UistIivuLIiI); (iv) a coa; mtar1keL
liberalization program, including the abolition of price controls and the granting of exporter rights
to all corporatized mines; and (v) a monitoring mechanism to assess social impacts.
3.3    At the scheduled time for the second tranche release only three of the eight conditions
had been fully met. The government had agreed in its LSP, and in the conditionality for the loan's
second tranche release, that operating mines were to ensure that their net payables6 would remain
no greater than the 1996 levels, that non-core activities (such as vacation facilities) would be
privatized, and that the social assets of 100 mines would be divested. Performance contracts had
been signed; non-core activities had been divested; and restrictions on coal exports had been
abolished. Two other conditions had been partly met: (i) progress had been made in implementing
social and environmental mitigation measures for mines to be closed. and (ii) coal mining
expenditures were within the budget limits, but were being reallocated from mine closure
purposes to subsidies for ongoing mines.
3.4    Thre rnonditions related     s o mne that wvere not being closed were unmet and had no
prospect for being met: (i) subsidies were continuing to be paid and investments were continuing
to ue miade i, ri,L Ioe in  lourl %taLUriUL1a (ki) accounts payable cUontilnued to incred.e; duOd kiii)
the transfer of the social assets of operating mines to municipal governments had not taken place.
in the face of economy-wide non-payment (and non-cash payment) problems that left the mines
with insufficient funds even to pay wages, the government had decided to use its sector funds to
buy labor peace by allocating the lirmited available funds to subsidize operating mines that had
originally been allocated for mine closure activities. As a result, UDKR was receiving insufficient
funds from the government to adequately finance its mine closure obligations in a timely fashion.
5. Categories included those to be closed immediately, those that were to be closed eventually because they had no
Ilong=ter-... prospee:s. olf >om1r.n  p-Mi*able, those thiaL migh:11 becomeII proi-ale, andU thosNe ; L1Lwe.-e proUilLabI adIl
should be supported with new investment.
6. "Net Payabies" is an accounting term for the difference between total amount an enterprise owes to suppliers of
materials, services, and labor and the total amount that others owe the enterprise for its outputs.



5
SECAL Restructuring
3.5    When it became clear that the govemment was not going to be able to meet all of the
riorignal tranche cnrditinns, the BRank norePt tn fnrmaliv restnirctnre the PFrAT. in a way that would
help to move the sectoring restructuring program forward. This time around it was less ambitious in
its res-c    ,nn goas.1 I Tt Ar---.A the .nditio i* la A to fin-anhal c,,n-^.t of -in that is,er
to continue to operate, and instead focused exclusively on the issues related to the project's original
prime objective. Th.e origina US$15  I  rIllion second trariche was divided into four pa tS, uri
which 24 additional mines were added to the closure program (for a total of 44 mines). The major
requirement was that the govemment would transfer sufficient funds to UDKR for it to impiement
the closure program, and that UDKR would make satisfactory progress on implementing this
program. All conditionality related to operating mines was dropped. Satisfactory implementation of
the mine closure program was expected to have an important impact on the future of the sector's
longer-term restructuring and retrenchment program.
3.6   In restructuring the project, the Bank took full advantage of the lessons learned from the
social assessments carried out under the Coal Pilot Project. The tranches were designed to more
closely link loan disbursements and budget expenditures for mine closures. The government
decided to introduce an expanded micro-credit program for small-scale and medium-scale
enterprises, and to provide municipal govemment with incentives to accept the social assets of
mines that were closing, and funds for rationnaization; rehabilitatinn; and etfficiency
improvements of transferred social assets.
3.7    Conditions of the restructured SECAL (related to the closing mines) were fulfilled and all
fo;tanches were A.sI-r --A W1hile the   e:o whole is still f- frro.. self-suf.ining, it has
IVu  Lr  ILII ~  Ul4  tIJUI ajU. TV hIIt1 LM,.. .)A. UI a.   a t  A,,.  I.  ~Ll  I CA.1 II Vill aI..LI-3UaLUIIJIJI5, J& Jfl.~
made some progress in this direction. About 70 mines were closed, compared to the 44 originally
expected. Non-core activities were privatized. However, few of the social assets of the closing
mine companies have been transferred to municipalities, as discussed below.
3.8    The project had a significant impact on the amount of the country's resources going to
subsidize the mining sector. Direct budgetary subsidies declined slightly between 1996 and 2000,
but remained at about 1.8 percent of GDP. However, indirect subsidies, created by the rapid
increase of accounts receivable in 1996, have essentially been eliminated. While it is not possible
to quantify the overall budgetary impact of the mine closure program, it is clear that the closing of
a third of the Ukraine's least efficient minese has had a significant positive impact the country's
overall resource allocations.
Social Safety Net for Redundant Miiners
3.9    The government passed the legislation allocating to UDKR the responsibility for all
severance payment liabilities and obligations of the closing mines. UDKR makes these payments
before it begins the physical closure process. Dismissed miners are also entitled to two years of
unemployment insurance payments. In 1998, the government agreed to transfer responsibility for
these unemployment payments from UDKR to the government's social security authority, which
has effectively implemented the program. UDKR also undertook the obligations of the coal mines
to provide free coal to dismissed and retired miners. It has been reasonably successful in
performing this duty, although in some when delays in government transfers caused delay in
deliveries, greatly reducing the program's effectiveness.
7. About 95 mines have been closed since through the end of 2001, and another 14 are to be closed in 2002.



3.10   The program for ensuring that ex-miners received the benefits to which they were entitled
unUer the SECAL was e ff d t,IIvety irip]ej i Tieriteou. Two oc-Id "Is sessit-tent Surveys were
implemented to assess the impact of the social mitigation and social asset transfer programs, the
first in 1997 and the second in 1999.' The 1997 survey found that 16 percent of the miners in the
coal pilot had difficulties receiving their due payments, and 43 percent of the miners laid off at
non-pilot mines had difficulties, and that coal deliveries were, for the most part, received by the
participants. In the follow-up 1999 survey, less than 5 percent of those surveyed mentioned
encountering significant difficulties to obtain what they considered to be payment in full. This
suggests that the implementation of this aspect of the project was highly successful.
Rebabilta1flon ulf S ocuiai IfLHrastrueture
3. 11  The second element in tne social mitigation program was the rehabilitation of sociai
infrastructure assets (housing, social centers, and heating, water, electricity, and telephone
services), so that they could be handed over to municipal administrations. The Pilot Project
implemented these aspects of the social mitigation program satisfactorily. But the government
gave them a low priority under the SECAL, and starved them of funds. During the
implementation of the SECAL the government gave UDKR less than 1O percent of the funds that
the official mine closure plans stipulated for rehabilitation of the social infrastructure that is
supposed to be handed over to municipal governments. The municipal governments have
uniformly refused to take ownership of these infrastructure assets because the do not have the
revenue sources to maintain them, especially in the dilapidated state the essentially bankrupt
mining enterprises have left them. When the municipal governments refuse to accept these assets,
they are assigned to the Mining Associations that are still in operation. Since these entities are
also in desperate financial straits, the infrastructure continues to deteriorate.
Benefits to Local Population: Efforts at Job Creation and Municipal Costs Reduction
3.12   The pilot project included a credit line for direct payments to non-mining employers for
hiring ex-miners, and a micro-credit line for business ventures by or for ex-miners. Both of these
programs encountered problems in their implementation. Many of the certifications of
employment of ex-miners were falsified, and the intermediary bank that handled the micro-credits
misappropriated some of the funds. Both nrograms were terminated with only limitPd success.
There was also a program for municipalities to hire the unemployed for short-term public
imnroveme-nt nmrniptoz Th.-se fiinti were fully diskbursed, hut thiiy nrroVijiA nonly 1I-ter
employment opportunities, usually at extremnely low wages.
3.13   The original SECAL had no conditionality related to employment and job creation. The
rLIUtureu   SEC ilcludd a provision for the goveilL mentUto estau:Oi-ish a credit iine to
municipal governments for energy efficiency projects and another credit line to local banks for
loans to help small and medium industries. Tne municipai energy efficiency credit line proved
highly successful. Municipal governments reported savings of more than one-third on energy bills
when mini-boilers were used to replace district-heating systems. Benefits from the installation of
heat, water, and electricity meters were also significant. The savings created from the program
has had the additional effect of forcing the district heating authorities to make greater efforts to
improve their efficiency (and to replace worn out transmission pipelines). The longer-term
impacts of these activities on energy savings are likely to continue to accumulate. Loans are being
serviced in a timely manner. It is recommended that the Bank support an extension of this
8. Social Assessment of Coal Industry Restructuring in Ukraine: Mitigating Adverse Social Impacts (Report about
Research). Kiev Intemational Institute of Sociology. The first report was in June 1998 and the second in March 2000.



7
program for upgrading social assets in any future coal sector lending operation, and allow
the municipal governments to use their total revenue stream in calculating the maximum
loan they can receive.9
3.14    Utilization of the commercial credit line for small and medium industries was extremely
slow to take off. To date, only II enterprises have received loan.s. However. the government
believes that demand for these funds is growing. Commercial banks are beginning to learn how to
process these loanapplications more efffirienty, and are developing a substantial pipeline of
projects from enterprises interested in obtaining these medium to long-term funds."' It will be
several m.or-e years                         -A_-AhirsWcs WnJugd
Environment
3.15    The Coal Pilot Project complied with all the Bank's Environmental Assessment (EA)
guidelines. As a mine closure proiect, it was a Category B environmental risk: it was not expected
to, and did not directly create any new degradation of the environment. The Bank reviewed the
environmental rehabilitation program design for all nf the thre.e pilot mine closures, and followed
up during supervision. The Coal SECAL was approved more than two years before the Bank's
Pnviro%nmental mniiplinpe (P4A 01) intrnoueid Environtal Asccsess         nts for rSA1pAsT11
Projects approved after that date have an environmental analysis and mitigation plan. Under these
Dueidlines 'Le coail rL      woulu ha-ve atso b Ujia Ciategory no environImental riisk. inl tII
absence of guidelines, the Bank supervision team did not feel it necessary to review the
environmental rehabilitation pian for each mine that was to be closed under the SECAL. Neither
the government, nor UDKR, nor the communities surrounding the closing mines have considered
environmental matters to be of high priority relative to other mine closing concerns.'2 Ihe
government allocated less than 10 percent of the amount stipulated for environmental
rehabilitation in the mine closure programs, and most of this was allocated for the installation of
new water pumps to mitigate flooding of nearby mines.
3.16    With the exception of the pilot project mines, little has been done to remediate the coal
waste tips beyond efforts to put out internal coal fires. However, this may-not be a serious
9. The ability of the municipal governments (MGs) to borrow from this credit line has been limited by the requirement
that loan servicing could not be more than 10 percent of the MG's tax base. Revenues received as subsidy payments
from the regional governments (oblasts) could not be included. This policy was imposed to protect the oblast
governments, who were required to guarantee the repayment of the loan. But its impact has been to penalize the poorer
oblasts that received the highest percentage of their income from central government grants. The alternative approach,
which would take into consideration the MG total revenue (and expenditure) flow would have avoided this bias. It is
-itIIcUult to see why the MG's ttax-1-btaU reve-ue streall suldJUU ere IgarIUdU a a 'uet;;[ IUI, oI VI Wurity than its legally
established shared (subsidy) revenue stream, especially for an investment program that generates revenue for
renavment bv reducing energv related exnendituires. The goverrment's regulationq regarding theRe lnans have recentiv
been changed. An oblast guarantee is no longer acceptable. In order to borrow, an MG is now required to obtain a
commercial bank guarantee. With the introduction of commercial bank guarantees (based primarily on mortgaging of
municipal real estate) there should no longer be a need to fix the amount that an MC can borrow as a fiunction of its tax
base.
10. Projects included manufacture of paints and varnish, $175,000; supermarket selling construction materials,
$200,000; scrap metal processing, $550,000; timber processing, $1,132,000; ice-cream production, $890,000; electric
heater production modemization, $135,000; expansion of gasoline station network, 2x$2,200,000; pasta manufacturing,
$1,610,000; production of quartzite, $1,200,000; production of canned food, $1,200,000; expansion of a sewing
factory, $400,000; and ieasing of ATiv;s, $495,000.
11. OP4.01 added EA requirements for SECALs on January 1, 1999.
12. The major exception has been when rising water levels in the vicinity of closed mines have affected the
community's social infrastructure. This rising of the water table to its original level is a natural nhennmenon which
needs to be handled in the context of infrastructure rehabilitation requirements (see footnote 13, below).



problem. First, the environmental rehabilitation programs created by the Mining Design Institute
a.-e basedA on stand^r fo....las that seldAom ta'-e into account -the ac-ual conditi.ons a+ th-e
uat., u~3  Ijii a,a,iuta1u ivit iiuiaO Lilat Litjii LaKe~ 111Lv aCC'LU t LtII aL.Ua L.UILIlJI a' tlI
individual mines. A coal tip located well away from residential communities might not need a
high level of retnediation if it has little or no impact on the surrounding environment. T he
requirement to reduce the tip height (to a maximum of 40 meters) fails to consider the impact of
the process. in at least one settlement, the removal of the excess material created a red dust haze
in residential areas for six months. Second, implementation of the approved "rehabilitation"
programs has considerable potential for creating secondary environmental problems. For instance,
the requirement to cover the tip with 20 centimeters of topsoil does not consider where this
topsoil is to come from. Nor does the requirement to reduce the height of the tip generally take
into account the impact on the land chosen to receive it. In many regions, both activities  -
effectively destroy productive agricultural land.
3.17    The surveys of affected populations carried out under the project have shown that local
populations place a low prioritv on environmental issues that do not have a direct negative imnact
on their lives (such as flooding of homes). Most rehabilitation, especially when it entails the
movement nf large- volumie nf mtprinaI is epYnncive, and local inhahitants wolvd murh prerfpr tn
have the funds spent on things that affect them directly. Mine closure programs have been unable
to m.eet thir. envionmental rehbabiitation a--o, but neith-ave. they caused enviIIIt.IItOi
damage.'3 In future projects the Bank should insist that environmental rehabilitation
prograFl-I are re-viewed by            o compe uitside agency Lo CeUsUC tLiat LhCY a-re appropriate
for the situation.
4.      Project Results: Ratings
Relevance: Were the Project Objectives the Right Ones?
4.1     The two projects had important sector, social, and macroeconomic objectives. This
assessment rates these objectives to be-highly relevant.
4.2     Sector objectives and strategy. The Bank's sector strategy was to support a program for
closing loss-making mines and restructuring the mining sector so that eventually all remaining
mines would be financially viable and could then be privatized. By financing the closure of three
mines, the Pilot Proiect was expected to identify and correct weaknesses in the government's
existing closure process, and provide the basis for optimizing Bank support for the continuation
of IJkraine's mine closnre program.'4 The restrnctu-red SECAT dropne.d cnriditionalitv reilterd to
improving the efficiency of operating mines, and focused exclusively on the mine closure
process. The basic sector objectives wvere highly relevant ,d fu,!!y consistent with country needs
and Bank goals.
4.3     Social objectives. Both projects were designed ensure an efficient and socially
~~~~~~~~~~ _                . .   I   - - - --   .U . I  - .   . .   _ .  I   .   .
acceptaule closure process tnat woula provide reasonaule benefits to miners ana mining
communities directly affected. By focusing on the mitigation of the social and environmental
13. Water tables have risen when pumping stops after a mine is closed, returning to their pre-mining level. The
resulting damage to houses built in low-lying areas needs to be addressed, either by repairing the building or by moving
the inhabitants to a new location. There is generally no economic way to stop the rise in groundwater to its natural level
without conti.. s pum,,ping.
14. The secondary objectives were to test ways to implement mine closures to meet a multiplicity of goals; maximize
employment opportunities for displaced miners; transfer social assets to municipal management and protecting access
of most vulnerable groups; learn from monitoring and feedback program for improving subsequent operations.



9
consequences arising from the mine closures,'the Pilot Project directly supported these objectives.
Laid-off miners were to receive all the financial comnensation. as well as other benefits to which
they were legally entitled when the mines closed. The closure program's other two social
objec tive ,vroasist w1ith the sustaninabilit.y of rnm.miinitv througch sunnort .for rehabilitation
and maintenance of social infrastructure and through the creation of job opportunities for laid-off
wrkers. I iese soclal ouJectives wei-e highly rellevant to the BaIr k's go1a.
A A    s                        1       .L...              L..w.       WOU
4.4  ac-roeoiomllc objec.ive. ClIosing ofthemos;tinefiient, hihcs  ie  ol
greatly reduce the need for operating and investment subsidies. The SECAL was designed to
support the government's program to close at least 40 mines, and future operations were expected
to continue to support the restructuring process. The ultimate macroeconomic objective was to
eliminate the sector's massive drain on the government budget (see para. i.4), and to allow these
limited resources to be used for better targeted social welfare needs. This was an appropriate and
highly relevant objective.
4.5    Fiscal and budgetary objectives. The SECAL provided fiscal and budgetary support, as
does all adjustment lending. But budget support, in and of itself, is an inappropriate primary
objective for any Bank lending, because it could justify any and allIJending activities. The primary
obiective of the Bank's adiustment lending, and the objective by which the success of Bank lending
must be judged, is the implementation of an agreed set of policy measures. While all structural
adiustment Itnding helps to suppoLt government hudorets (since the loans are made to the treasury)
budget support has always been the incentive to encourage the government to take otherwise
poltitically difflt policy decisi-ns. In this c-as, afa-t=disbu-u-,;r ..PrA. was ar .innnnronriate
lending instrument for supporting a long and politically difficult long-term mine closure program.
Efficacy: Did the Projects Achieve their Stated Objectives?
4.6    This assessment agrees with the ICR and rates the efficacy of both projects as
substantial. A social safety net system for redundant miners was developed and effectively
imnlemented in the Pilot Proiect Environmental concerns were fully taken into account in the
mine closure implementation program, and the social assets from the three mines were
successfully transferred to the local municipal governments. Social improvement measures
related to long-term job creation were less successful. During the SECAL the methodology for
closing uneconomic Mines...n  was successlful. I.,tvet t he--;A u.-L t.. t1JOf another 70 min-s. By
the beginning of 2002 more than 94 mines have been closed. The short-term social safety net
conditions continue to be fuiily implementeu. T ne miine closures have not createdU additional
environmental problems, but neither has the closure program been adequately funded to meet any
but the most pressing environmental rehabilitation problems that were created over many years of
mine operation (particularly those created by the existence of mine tips). The longer-term issues,
including the maintenance and repair of social assets and the creation of new employment
opportunities in the depressed mining towns have not demonstrated good results. The problem of
social assets is one of finding additional funds to make up for years of poor maintenance. The
problem of increasing private sector Job creation- in a depressed coal mining region is unlikely to
be resolved when the entire national economy is under duress.
Efficiency: Was the Project Cost Effective?
4.7    This assessment rates the efficiency of both projects substantial.
4.8    The appraisal of the Pilot Project undertook a complex analysis of the project benefits
and costs. The ICR for the Pilot Project re-estimated the return to the government from its



In
investment in mine closing to be 47 percent, but does not make clear the assumptions it uses to
esLlimhate, the1. eApecteLU UbIeneI;l. Some ofLI Nhe eslimlates VI UbIeInLIt, paalL1culaLly LIIthV from11 I-e-
employment of miners were over-optimistic, and the payments for back wages, disability, and
retirement shouid not have been inciuded as cost Decause tney were due and payabie even if tne
mines had remained open. The economic benefits of the mine closure program under the SECAL
were similar to those of the three pilot mines. Only highly unprofitable mines were closed. Other
things being equal, this assessment judges that the rate of return to the government's investment
in the physical closure program (including environmental costs), plus its redundancy payments to
unemployed miners is at least as high as the rate of return estimated in the SAR. On the other
hand, there is ample evidence that the costs of closing the mines could have been substantially
reduced if the closure program had been more optimally designed, using the most efficient
technology, and had been implemented over a shorter period.
Institutional Development Impact: Has the Project Led to Better Management of Human
and Financial Resources
4.9    The Bank's overriding objective was to support the government's long-term program to
rationalize the coal mining sector and make it economically sustainable. While new institutions
and procedures were established to facilitate the mine closure process, the process of deciding to
close non-viable mines has yet to be institutionalized. The institutional development impact of the
Pilot Project is therefore judged substantial, but the impact of the SECAL is judged modest.
4.10   Institution building was an important part of the two projects. The Ukrainian State
Company for Coal Mine Closing (UDKR) was established as a semi-autonomous agency under the
Ministry of Fuel and Energy (MFE) for the sole purpose of implementing the mine closure
nrograms Its e-tahlikhment ha. oreativ rediuce-d the. cnnflicts nf interrest that exi.cted whe.n mine.
closures were under the authority of the same units responsible for investments in operating mines.
TTYhVR rPru,-iPc ite fiindign ciinrf  n   natpegrc Pncd ic not all  rl to trnsfer fi-ds fo-m
one category to the next. Money that is allocated to UJDKR for mine closures could not be, and is
not being, usedu f9bor investments in ouperlating rI, MUhItb.  is alUULt-U 1i1 i.jUeLtIy Uy VadiouU goVertiIIiciI
auditing agencies. However, the two projects had little influence on the operation of the Mining
liesign institute, which is responsible for drawing-up mine ciosure programs.
4. 1   UKraine' s coal mine ciosure program has a long way to go before the sector can become
economically self-sufficient and free from the need for government subsidies. The government's
approach to the sector continues to shift. Its current official policy is that there is little need for
further sector rationalization; that the sector should continue to receive both operating subsidies
and investment support; and that only a few mines need to be closed. If this policy is adhered to
there is little hope for continued improvement in the efficient, equitable and sustainable use of
resources in this sector. Nevertheless, during the implementation of the coal pilot and the
SECAL, the government has made a significant start in sector rationalization.
Outcome
4.12   Thre objective of the two projects was to assist the government in implementing a socially
and environmentally sound mine closure program. Both projects were highly successful in
achieving the primary social objective of providing a short-term social safety net by ensuring that
workers received the full benefits to which they were entitled. Both projects were reasonably
i 5. Although there is some blurring of lines where additional water pumping equipment was needed to keep operating
mines from flooding after pumping facilities in nearby closing mines were shut down.



successful in helping the authorities to improve the efficiency of the mine closure process. The
Pilot Proiect had some success in supporting the maintenance and improvement of social
infrastructure. The SECAL made little progress in this major area of concern. Neither project was
successful in supporting effective methods to provide alternative employme-nt for redundant
workers. On the basis of the conclusions reached in the above discussions of efficacy,
efflciency, this acessment agrees w;th the ICR and rat-s the outcome of both the Pilot
Project and the SECAL as satisfactory.
Sustainability: Are the Results Likely to Last ?
4.13   As explained below, this assessment rates the sustainability of the benefits achieved in
the pilot project as highly likely, and the sustainability of the benefits achieved by the SECAL as
likelv. It aDDears unlikelv that the sector-restructuring program will generate significant
additional future benefits.
4.14   The benefits in the Pilot Project, from mitigating the social impact of the closure of the
first three innes, annd the lessons learnedi in the process, are highly likely to be sustained. For the
SECAL, the closing of more than 70 mines permanently reduced the economic burden of an
119sWw1 1 I V_  i7etUt. CO   7111J  LUl\  IILIlIM,~ LllaL LIavG UGSII %Lb;  CaMI7GU  tAiVt UC; I VUpGIU, 611.7WbI IUI
benefit is highly likely to be sustained. The benefits to the disabled are also likely to be sustained
because the government has shifted the responsiDiiity ror tnese payments from the mining
associations to the national social security system. The ability of UDKR to continue to deliver
free coal to eligible ex-miners currently appear to be likely, but will depend, in the long run, on
the government's willingness to continuing to finance this expense out of its general budget.
4.15   While the progress made in implementing the government's restructuring program is a
permanent benefit to the economy, the sustainability of the government's long-term sector
restructuring program, which was to include the closure of the remaining economically non-
viable mines is unlikely under the current political conditions. Communities surrounding the
closed mines have been unable to attract sufficient new iob-creating enterprises, and continue to
experience difficulties in maintaining their existing social infrastructure. Mining companies had
neglected the maintenance of social infrastructure for many years before they ciosed their
operations. No new mechanism for its finance has been developed, and it continues to deteriorate.
Withoot a clear-cut mechanisn for assunring a continued funding source, the sustninahilitu of this
social infrastructure, and the communities that depend on it, is unlikely.
Bank Performance
4.16   This assessment rates Bank performance as satisfactory.
4.17   Oualitv at entry. The two proiects met the Bank's broad country assistance strategy
(CAS) objectives of reducing government budget support to the mining sector and improving
social protection of the ex-miners. The Rank's pre-proiect sector work helned the government
analyze the magnitude of the problems in the coal mining sector and the macroeconomic impact
of coal sector subsidy on the govennment's budget infonr.ation that .voa needed to help it decide
to restructure the industry.
4.18   The design of the Pilot Project focused on implementation of the social, physical, and
environmental ciosure pians ror the tnree plants and on snort-term job creation programs run by
municipal governments, micro-credit for new job creating investments, and the distribution of



reemployment bonuses for ex-miners employed outside the mining industry. The quality at entry
of the Pilot Project was satisfactory.
4.19    Tne design of the SECAL as afast-disbursing ioan was inappropriate. it was tne wrong
lending instrument to support a long and politically difficult mine closure program. In addition,
the use of the need for budgetary support as a primary project objective biased the structuring ot
the loan disbursement profile, with a proposed second tranche release only six months after the
first, which was far too short a time for the sectoral policy conditionality to be fulfilled. The result
was that, the unsatisfactory quality at entry of the SECAL led to the need to restructure the
project within a year. The quality at entry of the SECAL was unsatisfactory
4.20    Quality of supervision. Supervision of both projects was highly satisfactory. The mine
closures of the proiects were carefully monitored. The short-term iob creation program was
effectively implemented and supervised. A survey of the affected miners was implemented in
1997. It identified some significant weakness in the closure program's social mitigation measures,
which were subsequently taken up with the government and rectified in the ongoing SECAL. The
Bank wuas able to quickly identify some serious non.cormpliance problems vith the grant program
for employing ex-miners and with the on-lending program for small and medium job-creating
industrisn agree -it -he gove;.men to sto these ----ogas Mos impo--+t whei
II.A Llk,a., "U1. (L51.,L.U  WYIII LIil. ,uYIIILh. LV OLUFJ LIIVa-. IJii rLaiIII. IVIU1. LIIIIjJUI. LaiIL, WIIL.II IL
became clear that the SECAL had been poorly designed, the Bank successful restructured it by
el ffCtively efuocusirig on tihe criiical pruject objective.
4.2;    Notwitnstanding the overall successfui supervision of tne projects, tnere are areas wnere
the supervision could have been improved. Little was done to encourage the authorities to adopt
more efficient technology for closing mines. '6-The Bank did not review the technical and
environmental aspects of each mine closure program under the SECAL. While individual Bank
staff often made ad-hoc recommendations for improving the efficiency of closure practices during
supervision missions, it was not until early 2000 that the Bank fielded a mission with the specific
purpose of studying (and recommending improvements in) Ukraine's mine closure procedures,
almost four years after the pilot proiect had been approved. And even this study focused more on
making suggestions for institutional and procedural improvements in the closure process, rather
than on proposing lower-cost technical solutions to closure nroblems. The inability of the Bank to
organize an educational program designed to ease the acceptance of this more efficient
technology at an early stage in the implementation of these two projects has resultei in
substantially higher costs for this significant project element.
4.22    Recommendation: Bank coal sector restructuring programs in transition countries
sho-u:u indcude jrIugrtuiII LU IU uUiiFarizV ItW WeVchiCicaj e-xperi witn muuern, cost-sa-ving
procedures. These programs should to be implemented at the beginning of a sector lending
program. One way, which appears to have been effective in Russia, wouid be to include a small
technical assistance and training project with any SECAL operation. In Ukraine this could have
been part of the Pilot Project.
16. MDI and the mining community have demonstrated their willingness to introduce advanced technology into their
programs when they have been convinced of the advantages of these technologies. The most recent example is their
decision to shift to the use of submersible pumps for clearing water from underground mines, at a cost savings of over
50 percent. Although the Bank had recommended that these pumps be used instead of Ukraine's traditional pumping
terch-non1g-v early in the implementatiobn of the pnil.poect DMIIA had mee ,1A fAfAl- -- P;- 1---Wr - --d --+
aVlvXgJ _ =s; vgv; &VJWb sTsfrflaC p  '.J~t, t....at  z.JWtLu.J  .I  O,VCLlhI  JL&O L it  w IIV-
convinced of the safety of the "new" technology. DMI changed its position after participating in an educational
program organized by a British technical assistance program (DFID) that included field visits to other mines in Europe
to see this technology in operation. Recent experience in Russia coal sector program has shown that detailed expert
reviews of coal mine closure programs can identify opportunities to generate savings of up to one-third the cost. The
detailed analysis has provided the Russians with persuasive evidence for the need to change their mine closure
technology. There are similar opportunities for cost savings in Ukraine.



13
Borrower Performance
4.23   The government assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure the quality of
preparation of the both the Pilot Project and the SECAI and for their early implementation,
establishing UDKR as a semi-autonomous agency to implement the entire mine closure program.
Government and implementing agency perfonrmance under the Pilrt Project wvas sc#aifwr4nry
4.24   The goverment was unable to maintain ovwnership for the broader sector restructuring
program agreed to under the SECAL. For this reason, borrower performance on the project as
7giU.nally stkuctuired was unsatisfa AUry. lowever, the restructured project absolved tie
government of its sector restructuring obligations toward mines that continued to operate. It was
on:y obliged to finance the ciosure of 44 uneconomic mines. it met these obligations, transferring
more than 90 mines to UDKR for closure. UDKR successfully closed 70 of these mines during
the project implementation period.
4.25   UDKR. UDKR has been highly effective in implementing the government's mine
closure program and in insuring that social payments are made in a timely manner (including free
coal). No other institution is capable of carrying out this work. However, it has no special
advantages to implement programs related to social infrastructure rehabilitation and job creation.
A more transparent process is needed for deciding how to use the limited available social and
environmental funds, including requirements for a formal local consultation process to provide
full information to the local population about the elements of the mine closure programs that most
directly affect them: the environment, social infrastructure, and ioh creation investments
4.26   Nevertheless, UDKR's pnriorities reflec-t the pnriorities of Ministry of Fue! and Energy
(MFE), which are first to satisfy ex-miners' financial claims, and second to implement the
physica! aspe-t of the mine closuire programns. Environmental r,+;tgation, where it is considered
.7      j9--.  -F-1   -   *UtI. . -   p it A LM~ L,jIi  IIi~ I IILt1aL 1UCLL ,  WIt~  IL I  t LU I~I lAU
essential, is next in line, while social infrastructure rehabilitation and job creation activities are
lowest on the priority list. 'lTese prioriides are also reflected in the government's budgetary
allocations, which have provided only limited funds for the implementation of these latter
programs. As can be seen in the table below, total ailocations to UTDKR have been well below the
amount prescribed in the approved closure programs of the mines that have been transferred to
them for closure.
Expenditures of UDKR, in millions of UAH
Year                                        1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Planned Expenditures (based on approved closure programs  620  196  1189  1200  1200
Actual ependitures (baseu onua aual udgej lloWIUuons)  ,25  179  237  3OE  870
Percentage of actuaVplanned                (20%) (91%) (20%) (30%) (73%)
4.27   Worker compensation and physical mine closure expenditures have, for the most part,
been P-11- A-A-Ad However, Ifor o:hr expendiure cateois'h  oe,rethsalctdls
than 10 percent of the funds required to fully implement the official closure plans. Furthermore,
most of the funds anuocated for environment mitigation have been used for new pumping station
to control water levels at nearby mines, mines that are hydrologically connected to the closed
mine. This has resulted in a continual and growing conflict between Ui-KR and the municipal
governments over the use of resources for environmental work and the rehabilitation of social
infrastructure that is to be taken over by the municipalities. It is an issue that will need careful
consideration in any future Bank lending for sector restructuring.
4.28   Mining Design Institute (MDI). Part of UDKR's problem lays with the way the closure
plans are drawn up. These plans are the responsibility of the MDI, another specialized agency



1A
under the MFE. During Soviet times, MDI's primary responsible was to design new mines and
A  I .L-        -I-    IC__.      ___   11    _
mrining i.Iilas-uctui-e Iinves...nenis. AIlhougl they were a:so rib forii licurepa
they had few opportunities to gain experience in this field. Their work is characterized by the
close adherence to ail written rules and regulations, which are not always appropriate for the
specific conditions of individual mines, especially for the design of environmental mitigation
programs. There are few opportunities for key stakeholders to participate in the decision-making
processes of the MDI. Even UDKR is not directly involved in establishing the technical
parameters for the closing process. Closure plans routinely lack an evaluation or identification of
economic uses for recovered land and mine buildings. The Bank has been unable to influence the-
way MDI implements its mandate.
4.29   MDI's closure plans are supposed to also include ajob creation investment program to
reemvlov displaced workers. This is a holdover from Soviet times. when it was the responsibility
of planners to create jobs for all. However, there is no reason to believe that the MDI has any
sneciial capnhilities to itdentify ob creation opponnrnities in today's market-driven eronomyn In
fact, most of the programs that they have proposed focus on the creation of factories owned and
run by the gOvenrmment, such n-s seving plants. Thee imnestments do n t m eet the con ditions of
Ukraine's present market-oriented economy. Some local communities have complained that they
[lave m-.aue m.any p.-oposalis foUr specific .Job-L;crating in1vest1ments, buU; tilat theirl proposa:s have
been ignored or rejected without discussion. It is not possible to verify whether the proposals
might have been economically viabie. Mine Closure Pians are aiso supposed to inciude
investment programs for rehabilitating social infrastructure as part of the closure package.
Unfortunately, the MDI has no experience in establishing priorities or responding to the needs of
local communities for rehabilitation of social infrastructure, and does not appear to be doing an
effective job in this area. Both municipal authorities and local NGOs complain that the mine
closure programs are unresponsive to the community needs.
4.30   The performance of UDKR and MDI could be improved in the following ways:
*  Consideration should be given to shifting the responsibility for the implementation of
programs for job creation and the rehabilitation of social infrastructure to the local
authorities; with the nroviso that they ton wniild he required tn nrovide the Ioca! rnmmmnitv
with an accounting of how these funds are actually used.
*  UDKR and MDI should hold hearings at the local level to discuss MDI's environmental,
lnf,LaZL&U4LU.Ue ieiiauilitLadtI ajiu social action invesiment IIp p1UpblltuL, iluig those proposed
by municipalities. A record of these hearings, including the proposals that have been rejected
by the MDi, shouid be included in the MDi's final program.
*  if fund allocations are insufficient to meet all the activities identified in the MDI's final
closure program (as is invariably they are), then further hearings should be held on how the
funds are to be allocated.
*  UDKR should be required to provide to all interested parties in the local community with full
information on how it has actually spent the funds it was given, on an annual or semi-annual
basis. This should moderate the oft-heard NGO complaint that they did not know what the
money was used for.



15
Box. Governance Issues Arising from Project Experience
The Bank's primary governance issue in the Coal SECAL was related to the problems created by non-cash
payments, which were prevalent throughout the economy in the late 1990s, but were particularly important
in the energy sector. Cash payments for power distribution in that period was on the order of 20 percent, for
power generation it was less than 10 percent, and for coal it was less than 5 percent. With almost all
transaction using barter and offset payments, there were ample opportunities for managers to engage in
rent-seeking activities. The Bank attacked this problem by including the limiting of accounts payable to the
level reached the month before board presentation as one of the second tranche release conditions.
However, this objective could not be achieved: in 1997 and 1998 payables rose dramatically throughout the
economy, and the condition was dropped in the restructured project."
I Government policies on coal sales have imnroved. Enterprises were given the right to sell all their eoa! a!t
prices freely negotiated with customers, and all restrictions on exports and imports were eliminated. A large
number of small traders began to operate when the domestic markets were freed. However, over the nast
five years, the number of firms has gradually declined, so that now there are no more than a dozen large
firms in the coal marketing business. It has been reported that the maior metallurgical industries have taken
over the marketing of metallurgical coal. The Bank has not followed the restructuring of these markets
sufficiently to have a firm understanding of how they work.
Principal/Agent problems did not exist in the Soviet system. The State was clearly identified as the |
ent.emprise owner and controls were -m,plemrer,Leu' .hlrough' th'e P'arty, 'th'e rKGBD, etc, 'Inere were we'l;-defin-fed
sets of objectives (generally quantitative output targets) that the managers were responsible for meeting;
and nena!tis- wue-re im.poseal .f- not m.eeting them. Profita-bility was not im,,port.ant, anA enter prises were all
responsible for both core and non-core activities. The current environment has given rise to significant
'principal/agent" problems. The central problem ic that e State is no longfer able to identify and -t-icuan-
its corporate objectives. Neither profitability nor production can be defined as clear-cut objectives. The
government's ownershin authority is weak- even inl(K) percent st.te-owned enterprises. In the. roa mining
enterprises, no one in authority appears to be overly concerned about efficiency, financial viability, or hard
budget constraints. In partially privatized enterprises the problem is even greater. As a result. wealth
privatization can easily take place through price manipulation by powerful trading companies working in
coordination with enterprise management, especially when these trading companies are also active in the
steel, power generation, and coal utilization industries. In the coal industry, where subsidies still remain
extremely high, the opportunities for perverse diversion of resources are particularly great.
The Bank reached an agreement with the government on a set of coal enterprise reforms that would begin to
impr..ove en.tL.epris +llaLager.i. in mines thaL we,-e to LontinUiue to opx;rate. X ..ese refurrl.s reia-dteou limitations
on new government investment to the profitable mines (mines that did not need subsidies), and then on
coroLTnercit-al lnndina term., tie lip.iti- .f t.ota! govenm7.ent supporl to the m..ining secio.o ani the li1mi:in of
| subsidy payments to unprofitable mines, and the introduction of performance contracts. However, none of
these conditions were met. In Lhe restructured project the Bank dropped all effort.s to follo the activities of
| operating coalmines and coal markets, limiting its attention to the mines that were to be closed.  l
5.      Lessons and Recommendations
5.1    In addition to the recommendations on specific issues presented in the text"t the project
provides some broad lessons that are applicable across the Bank's lending program, and also
several recommendations related to future Bank support for Ukraine's coal sector restructuring.
17. There was a dramatic economy-wide increase in cash payments in 2000. In the coal sector they are believed to have
reached over 85 percent. However, many mines still find it necessary to use barter arrangements to finance their capital
expenditure programs.
18. See paragraphs 3.13, 3.17, and 4.21



i6
Lessons for all Bank sector lending
5.2    Quick disbursing SECALs are inappropriate vehicles for supporting sector
restructuring programs. Sector restructuring is a long, complicated process, particuiarly in a
transitional economy where strong economic forces are aligned against it.
5.3    SECALs in support of mine closures should be designed with a several small,
flexible tranches, rather than a small number of large tranches. Each tranche should include a
limited set of conditions, and should provide financial support for the implementation of a
government decision to close some predefined, limited number of mines (possibly 5 to 10).
5.4    The financial and economic performance of pilot project activities needs to be
carefully monitored. The activities initiated by a pilot proiect need to be monitored from the
start in order to be able to inform decisions on the design and implementation of the remaining
phases of the program- Stakeholder sirveys c-an play an essential rmle in this prncess.
Recommendatnnrs  for future aora Ir IonAing-;r e in Ulc TrJrna onal eorfAr
__    flrss_sasa o  ss   *wn _..nnr nan1-e *-- v--. .. _ _..un..  _waLnnnln s
5.5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~~~~~~~~1-, Pr3.sdge  ospo  o!scoletu.uig st  aez.ear focus o
poverty reduction objectives. To achieve this goal, the Bank needs to structure its lending to the
scLtoI 1in a way tiiat it piuviue nIIIULr suppUo Lor tIhe sciUll safety net expendiLULUS adU less
support for physical mine closure activities. The most important areas of support are the payment
or social liabilities to redundant miners and the rehabilitation of social infrastructure (particularly
housing, heating, water, and electricity) that is to be transferred from the defunct mining company
to the local administrations. This social infrastructure plays a central role in the well-being ot the
affected population. Communities cannot survive Ukraine's extreme winters without these
essential services. This shift in focus would take the Bank out of the mine closure business, and
put it back into the social mitigation and poverty alleviation business, its primary area of concern.
5.6    The Bank needs to make greater efforts improve the efficiency of mine closure
activities. More attention is needed to the provision of technical assistance with the design of
efficient individual mine closure programs that take into account sDecific local conditions and
include timetables for their implementation.
5.7    The Bank has no blueprint for increasing private sector job creation in a shrinking
economy. The Bank should, therefore, consider working more closely with other bilateral
and multilateral agencies IY that are providing seed money for establishing local
cooperat_-e -anote    e-hl ns;ttos        esiotttosr.ypoeobegd
U5I'.a "~A&"  ~ .RZRp J5aAU  JUL.   IIll.LILULtVII3 xiiiay pJluyv E) D%, r,00U
intermediaries to finance new small-scale enterprises.
19. Such as DFID.



17                                       Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
COAL PILOT PROJECT (LOAN 40160)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
estimate      current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                             28.50             28.08                 98.5
Loan amount                                     15.80             12.72                 80.5
Cancellation                                      0               3.04
Project Dates
Original                      Actual
Board approval                                                                    05/16/1996
Signing                                                                           07/11/1996
Effectiveness                                       05/31/1996                    08/28/1996
Closing date                                        12/31/1999                    12/31/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
No of Staff Weeks           Total
Identification/Preparation             29                    85
AppralsaUNegotiatons                   21                    80
Supervision                           224                   770
ICR                                    8                     30
Total                                  282                  965
Mission Data
Date       No. of  Staff days  Specializations  Performance    Rating    Types of
(month/year) persons    In field    represented        ratina      trend    Problems
ldentificaton/  Nov. 1995     4                TTL, E, IS, LS
Preparation
Appraisal     Feb. 1996       6                TTL, E, IS(2), LS (2)
Supervision   Nov. 1997       5                TTL, IS(2), LS, 00      S           S
July 1998        2               TTL, 00                 S           S
Jan. 1999        2               TTL, 00                 S           S
Julv 1999        2               TTL;Ofl O                           S
Sept. 1999      2                TTL, 00                 S           S
Dec. 1999       2                TTL,O0                  S           S
March 2000      2                TT L, 00                            S 5
Complet'on    Feb. 2001       2                TL,                     S           S
1TL, E=Engineer; IS= Institutional Specialist; LS=Labor Specialist; 00= Operations Officer



18 QAnnev A
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (LOAN 4118)
rject Dates_
Original                      Actual
IPCD                                                                            06/03/1996
Appraisal                                                                       07/19/1996
Board approval                                                                  12/11/1996
Signing                                                                          12/12/1996
Effectiveness                                      12/27/1996                   12/27/1996
Closing date                                       12/31/1997                    12/31/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
No. of Staff Weeks         Total
Identificatioii/Pregaration          33.9                 147.7
Supervision                         150.6                 441.3
ICR                                  6.0                  25.0
Total                               232.0                 722.7
Mission Data
Date      No. of   Staff      Speclalizaflons   Performance  Rating   Types of
(month/year) persons days in      represented          rating    trend   problems
field
Identificationt
Preparation  March 1996     3             TM, E, Eng.,
June 1996       6            TM, E, Eng, IS,RS, LS
Supervision  Jan. 1997      5             TM, E, Eng., RS, 00         S         S
Apri i997       6            TM, E, Eng., RS, LS, 00     U         S
Sept. 1997     5             TM, E, Eng., RS,00          U         U
Dec. 1997      3             TM, E, OA                  U          U
May 1998       6             TM, RS, IS, MFS, LS, 00     U         U
July 1998       5            TM, RS, IS, LS, 00          U         S
Oci. 19S8      4             T IMS, LS', ^L^, SUJ                  S
Jan. 1999       5            TM, RS, ISD, LS, 00         U         S
April 1999      5            TM, RS, IS, LS, 00          S         S
June 1999       4            TM, IS, LS, 00              S         S
Dec. 1999      3             TM, LS, 00                  S         S
Completion   Feb. 2001      2             TM, 00
S    ask Man aSgears; E=Eoroist; Eri,g._ O gficner; IO=erastituiona Specialist; RS= Rstru-nring Specialist!
LS=Labor Specialist; OO=-Operational Officer; OA=Operations Assistant; MFS--Micro-Financing Speciatist



