Report No. PID6034
Project Name                     Ukraine-Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Mining & Other Extractive
Project ID                       UAPA40564
Borrower                         Government of Ukraine
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
12/2 Hrushevsky St.
Kyiv, Ukraine 252008
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           02/12/98
Projected Appraisal Date         N/A
Projected Board Date             03/31/98
Background. On 12/12/1996 the Loan Agreement for the US$ 300 million
Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL) was signed. The first
tranche of US$ 150 million was disbursed before the end of 1996. The
Coal SECAL is quick-disbursing and provides budget and balance of
payments support, linked to the conditionality specified for tranche
release. Disbursements are not linked to any specific purchases, but
are subject to a standard negative list of ineligible goods and
countries of origin. On December 25, 1997, the Government of Ukraine
requested an extension of the original closing date and a
restructuring of the second tranche into several smaller tranches,
with conditionality entirely directed towards the implementation of
mine closures and associated social and environmental mitigation.
Objectives. The proposed restructuring of the second tranche
maintains the central objective of the Coal SECAL, i.e., reduction
of the large operating subsidies for the coal industry through fast
restructuring.
Description. The original second tranche would be restructured into
four smaller tranches of US$ 37.5 million each, disbursable in 1998
with conditionality relating to mine closure and associated
social/environmental mitigation measures. The redesign would allow
targeted actions, on the national and regional level, for social
mitigation of mine closures, including strengthening of employment
creation and transfer of social assets, and for accelerated safe and
environmentally acceptable physical closure.
Financing. The entire amount of all four new tranches (US$ 150
million) would be financed by the World Bank.
Implementation. The Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of
Ukraine, participating commercial banks, the Ministry of Coal
Industry and the Ukrainian Company for Coal Industry Restructuring
(UDKR) would be involved for implementing the adjustment program.
Sustainability. To ensure sustainability of the social mitigation
program, the Government would provide a written commitment to the



Bank to continue implementing activities beyond the period of the
disbursement of the SECAL.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector. The
adjustment program builds on the lessons learned from the Coal Pilot
Project and the initial implementation of the Coal SECAL. It also
takes into consideration the results of an independent survey of
1,200 ex-miners and their families.
Poverty Category. The proposed redesign of the original second
tranche enhances Government policies and actions to mitigate the
social impact of coal sector restructuring through timely settlement
of social liabilities, employment creation measures and social asset
transfer in coal mining municipalities. The proposed redesign is
therefore a poverty-focussed operation.
Contact Point:           Heinz Hendriks, IENIM
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-2887
Fax No.: (202) 522-0396
Note:   This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 27, 1998.
- 2 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The category B status previously adopted for the loan would be
maintained, together with the applicable environmental management
procedures. Under the amended SECAL agreement, more uneconomic mines
would be closed than under the original agreement. The negative
impact of the coal sector on the environment would therefore be
further reduced.
In accordance with the original SECAL agreement, the Government
adopted an action plan for environmental mitigation measures to be
undertaken in connection with mine closures. Under this action plan,
the Government is committed to apply the procedures and measures
developed under the Bank-financed Coal Pilot Project for safe and
environmentally acceptable mine closure.
- 3-



