Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6969 UA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
November 15, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 18, 1996)
Currency Unit = Karbovanets
US$1   =  178,400
1 Karbovanets    =  US$0.0000056
From September 2, 1996 1 Hryvnia = 100,000 Karbovanets
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EU TACIS - European Union Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent States
FSU - Former Soviet Union
GDP - Gross Domestic Product
IBRD - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF - International Monetary Fund
LCSP - Letter of Coal Sector Policy
MCI - The Ministry of the Coal Industry
NBU - National Bank of Ukraine
SBA - Stand-by arrangement
SECAL - Sector Adjustment Loan
STF - Systemic Transformation Facility
SPF - State Property Fund
UDKR  - Ukrainian State Company for Restructuring Coal Industry Enterprises
USAID - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UKRAINE
Coal Sector Adjustment Project
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:               Ukraine
Executing Agencies:    Ministry of the Coal Industry and Ministry of Finance
Amount:                 US$ 300 million
Terms:                  Maturity of seventeen years, including five years of grace at the standard
LIBOR-based variable interest rate for US$ single currency loans.
Loan Objectives:        The proposed Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL) will provide a
significant portion of Ukraine's balance of payments and budget deficit
financing needs in late 1996 and in 1997, including part of the fiscal costs
of restructuring the coal sector. Without the loan, the upfront costs of
sector restructuring, including its social mitigation, would almost certainly
not be financed. The Bank's provision of the proposed loan, and its
associated conditionality, would enhance the credibility of the
Government's sector reform program. In the absence of the loan,
budgetary support to the sector would be limited, large arrears would
accumulate, and little or no restructuring would take place. The lack of
restructuring would prevent the attainment of productivity improvements in
the sector, deepen the poverty of those currently dependent on the sector
for their livelihood, and risk undermining macroeconomic stability through
funding of growing losses in the sector.
Loan Description:      The proposed SECAL will be quick-disbursing and will provide budget and
balance of payments support, linked to the conditionality specified for
tranche release. Disbursements of the proposed loan will not be linked to
any specific purchases, but will be subject to a standard negative list of
ineligible goods and countries of origin.
Benefits:               The loan will allow the implementation of the first stage of a reform
program for the coal sector which will reduce the need for fiscal subsidies
through productivity enhancement and through addressing urgent social
issues. It will also facilitate the reemployment of currently wasted
resources in more productive uses elsewhere in the economy, and will do
so in a manner which minimizes the social costs of adjustment.
Implementation of this first stage of reform will make a substantial
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



ii
contribution towards the medium-term goal of creating a more efficient coal
sector, attractive to private capital and no longer dependent on fiscal or
quasi-fiscal support. Without the loan, (i) the coal sector will represent a
permanent threat to macroeconomic stability; (ii) high-cost mines will
continue to be a burden on the more efficient mines if the cross-subsidy
system is reinstated; (iii) payments arrears will continue to accumulate
creating hardship for the workforce and undermining adjustment in the rest
of the economy; and (iv) the accumulation of coal sector receivables will
continue to soften the budget constraint on the important power and steel
sectors thereby delaying those sectors' restructuring. Effective reform of
the coal sector will also send a strong signal to the rest of the economy of
the Government's resolve to harden budget constraints for state-owned
enterprises to promote restructuring and a competitive market orientation,
which in turn will promote economic growth and underpin macroeconomic
stabilization.
Risks:                 The principal risk is loss of policy commitment by the Government in the
face of resistance by coal industry lobbies with vested interests and by
labor unions representing those who bear the social costs. This risk of
policy reversal will be mitigated to some extent by (i) social protection and
employment creation measures to minimize the social costs of adjustment;
(ii) an effective public information and participation program to raise
awareness both of social protection measures and of the costs of continued
coal sector subsidies borne by the rest of the population; (iii) firm
implementation of coal sector reform such that productivity and profitability
gains are apparent early in the adjustment process; (iv) timely financial
assistance from the Bank; and (v) the resumption of economic growth in
Ukraine. However, the risk remains significant. The factors which create
a risk of policy reversal also create a risk of negative publicity for the
Bank. However, this will be mitigated by (i) the extent of Government
ownership of the restructuring program; and (ii) public information
concerning the social mitigation aspects of the restructuring program.
There is a risk of inadequate institutional capacity to implement the
program. This will be mitigated by technical assistance and by intensive
supervision of the proposed Coal SECAL.
Disbursement:          The SECAL will be released in two tranches of equal size: the first on
effectiveness (expected end-December 1996) and the second on fulfillment
of second tranche release conditions (expected in mid-1997).
Commitment Fee:        0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.



iii
Poverty Category:      Poverty-focussed, limited to social safety net for redundant coal industry
workers, their families and affected communities.
Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Map:                   IBRD 27634
Project ID Number:    UA-PA-40564
Vice President:                 Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Director:                       Basil Kavalsky, EC4
Division Chief:                 Dominique Lallement, EC4IN
Task Manager:                   Jonathan Walters, EC4IN






UKRAINE
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CONTENTS
Part I.        COUNTRY BACKGROUND  ............                ..1............. 
A. Recent Economic Developments and the
Government's Economic Reform Priorities ........ ..1......... 
Part II.    THE UKRAINIAN COAL SECTOR ................                                      2
A. Background  ....................................                          2
B. Past Development Policies ...........................                     3
C. Institutional Arrangements and Employment ................                4
D. Coal Prices, Cross Subsidies and Direct Subsidies ....      ........      5
Part III.      THE GOVERNMENT'S REFORM PROGRAM  FOR THE COAL SECTOR   7
A. Introduction ...    .       .................................             7
B. Market Liberalization ..............................                      7
C. Restructuring and Privatization ........................                  8
D. Investment in Viable Mines .................           I   ........       9
E. Closure of Unviable Mines and Mitigation of
Social and Environmental Costs ...........      ..      .............       10
F. Redirection and Reduction of Subsidies ...................               12
Part IV.      THE PROPOSED SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN ....... ......                           16
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement  .......................                  16
B. Program Implementation and Loan Conditions  ....          ..........     16
C. The Proposed Loan  ...............................                       21
D. Benefits and Risks  ................................                     22
Part V.        RECOMMENDATION  ...............................                             23
TABLES
Table 1        Coal Sector Employment
Table 2       A Snapshot of the Coal Industry as Reform is Implemented
Table 3       The "With-reform" Scenario
Table 4       The "Without-reform" Scenario
ANNEXES
1.  Letter of Coal Sector Policy
2.  Investments for Coal Production
3.  Technical Note on Budgetary Projections
4.  Production Subsidies and Performance Contracts
5.  Social Impact Monitoring



SCHEDULES
A. Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
B. Status of Bank Group Operations
C. Country at a Glance
MAP
IBRD 27634 - Ukraine Coal Industry Restructuring



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
COAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO UKRAINE
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed Coal Sector
Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL) to Ukraine for US$300 million to provide financial support for the
Government's Coal Sector Restructuring Program. The Loan would be at the standard LIBOR-based
variable interest rate for US$ single currency loans, with a maturity of seventeen years, including five
years of grace.
PART I. Country Background
A.    Recent Economic Developments and the Government's Economic Reform Priorities
2.    Ukraine faces an enormous challenge in transforming its economy from a centrally planned
system to a market-oriented one. Policy failures during the first three years of Ukraine's independence,
combined with major external shocks have compounded the problem. By 1994, officially recorded output
had fallen by 50 percent since 1990 and inflation, while coming down from hyperinflationary levels, was
still in triple digits. The current account deficit widened and the external situation became increasingly
tenuous with a large accumulation of payment arrears (mainly on gas imports from the former Soviet
Union). Living standards deteriorated sharply and poverty increased.
3.    In October 1994, a clear break was made from past policies as Ukraine began to lay the
foundations for macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms with the objectives of reducing
inflation and promoting sustainable economic recovery and better living conditions for the population.
In support of the Government's program, the IMF approved a first purchase under the Systemic
Transformation Facility (STF) in October 1994 and the World Bank approved a Rehabilitation Loan in
December 1994. In April 1995, a 12-month stand-by arrangement (SBA) and a second purchase under
the STF was approved by the IMF Board. The IMF-supported stabilization program entailed tight fiscal
and monetary policies with the aim of lowering inflation to about 1 percent monthly by year-end. The
Bank's Rehabilitation Loan supported a wide-ranging series of measures aimed at reducing government
intervention in the economy, developing competitive markets and introducing elements of a social safety
net.
4.    Much has been accomplished over the last 18 months. The exchange rate has been unified and
a substantial degree of current account convertibility established; the trade regime has been liberalized;
domestic prices have been largely decontrolled, consumer subsidies reduced and energy prices increased
to world levels for non-household users (and substantially raised for household users); tax reform has



2
been initiated with the introduction of a modern profit tax; the state order system has been abolished; a
mass privatization program has been launched; agricultural land reform is being initiated; and a radical
restructuring of the energy sector is underway.
5.     The performance in 1995 indicates a substantial reduction in macroeconomic imbalances. The
fiscal deficit (on a cash basis) was reduced to 5.3 percent of GDP (from 8.2 percent in 1994) even in the
face of a decline in revenues of 4.4 percent of GDP. Notwithstanding the large cut in expenditures, the
current account deficit remained at $1.5 billion, equivalent to 4.4 percent of GDP. Given the dependence
on monetary financing of the deficit, inflation only fell to 180 percent (down from 400 percent in 1994).
Exports increased -- for the first time since Independence -- by 6.4 percent in volume. This increase in
exports was based on a large (19 percent) increase to non-FSU countries in spite of an appreciation of
the real exchange rate by 60 percent. The output contraction (officially recorded) slowed down somewhat
to 12 percent.
6.     There are, however, a number of factors that point to the fragility of these early successes and
indicate the considerable challenges ahead in securing macroeconomic stability and restoring growth.
First, the fiscal situation appears better than it is; the cash deficit was contained by running up arrears
and postponing expenditures. On a commitments basis the deficit was higher; including arrears it is
estimated by the IMF to have been between 7 to 9.5 percent of GDP. Second, progress was uneven
during the year, underscoring the difficult political and social situation: notably, in mid-1995, the
Government gave in to state enterprise pressures and extended budgetary and credit support, including
to the coal sector. The persistence and even increase in wage and energy arrears shows that public
enterprises have not yet adjusted and credible hard budget constraints are still lacking. In effect, soft
budget constraints, with fiscal and quasi-fiscal support, are being used to maintain output and employment
levels in the absence of a well-targeted and adequately-funded social safety net.
PART II. The Ukrainian Coal Sector
A.    Background
7.    In 1994, Ukraine's coal industry employed 925 thousand people, or 4.3 percent of the labor force
of the country. The coal industry supplied 76 million tonnes of washed coal (94 million tonnes
unwashed), with a market value of about US$ 2.3 billion (while GDP was US$ 22.8 billion), meeting
24 percent of total primary energy demand in Ukraine. Coal miners received one of the highest salaries
among industrial employees (which bore no close relationship to productivity differences), were the best
organized, and wielded considerable political influence. The presidential and parliamentary elections of
1994, for example, were scheduled one year ahead of time in response to demands made by striking coal
miners.
8.    The Ukrainian coal industry is now in a deep crisis. Between 1990 and 1995, production
decreased by 50 percent. Coal used to be one of the major Ukrainian export commodities, but coal
exports were minimal by 1995 (2.4 million tonnes compared to 20 million tonnes in 1990). Imported
coal captured 20 percent of the Ukrainian market as a result of high domestic coal prices, problems with
timely delivery and coal quality, and the aggressive marketing of Russian and Polish coals. The
productivity of Ukrainian coal miners is extremely low by international comparison, and now it is low
even by historical Ukrainian standards: employees engaged in the core production activities produced on
average only 105 t of saleable washed coal per capita in 1995, a drop of 34 percent since 1990. For



3
comparison, hard coal mines produce about 200 t of coal per employee per year in Russia, 400 t in
Poland, 2,000 t in the United Kingdom, and 4,000 t in North America. Employment in the Ukrainian
coal industry is falling fast as unpaid wages drive workers out of the sector - by May 1996 the industry
employed 684,000 workers (a 26 percent decline from 1994).
9.    Despite high domestic coal prices, the coal industry is unable to cover its costs. Payment arrears
accumulated by many of its traditional customers have contributed further to the financial crisis, leading
to the inability of many mining enterprises to pay salaries and key suppliers (in particular the power
sector). However, the ability and the willingness of the state to subsidize coal production had dropped
to an all-time low by 1995, due to a general decline of budgetary revenues in the shrinking economy, and
the recognition by policy makers that further large-scale production subsidies endangered the
macroeconomic stabilization effort.
B.    Past Development Policies
10.   Ukraine's total coal reserves amount to 52 billion tons of which 23 billion tons are proven and
probable (excluding possible) reserves. Cumulative coal production has been more than five billion tons.
Ukraine has huge coal reserves, but a large portion of those reserves appear to be uneconomic. The
geological reasons for the high costs and the low productivity are great depth, high temperature, frequent
gas outbursts, and thin coal seams. Therefore, planners of the former Soviet Union decided to invest in
Siberia and Kazakhstan where coal is found in thick seams near the surface and a higher return on the
investment could be expected. More generally, mining shifted from underground to surface operations
everywhere in the world. This trend was reinforced by the rapidly increasing availability of oil and gas
after World War II. Deep coal mining in Western Europe reacted since the late 1950s by closing
uneconomic, non-competitive mines, and increasingly concentrating the declining production on the best
mines only.
11.   Following independence, the Ukrainian coal industry hoped that the decline in coal production
would be reversed with generous support from the state. In 1992-94, long term planning focussed on
finding ways to increase coal output in order to reduce Ukraine's dependence on imported fuels. The
reduction of production costs did not receive a high priority, and no decision to concentrate coal
production on the best mines was made. Instead, funds were systematically channeled from the better
mines to the worse mines to sustain the operation of the latter. As a result, the poorer mines now possess
a complicated network of cross-cuts and inclines which have been continuously extended causing rapidly
increasing operating costs, while the better mines could not make full use of their potential due to a lack
of funds for rationalization and modernization investments.
12.   In early 1994, the Cabinet of Ministers approved a "Program for the Development of the Coal
Mining Industry of Ukraine and its Social Sphere up to the Year 2005". The "Program" was based on
the expectation that coal demand would stabilize in 1994 and then rapidly increase. Accordingly, the
"Program" included the construction of 21 new mines, capacity increases in 14 existing mines, and
reconstruction of 46 mines, to be funded by the state. The closure of 48 mines in the 1995-2005 period
was also planned, mostly in response to the expected exhaustion of their minable coal reserves. While
the "Program" included the corporatization of enterprises and the replacement of centrally-controlled
wholesale prices with contractual prices agreed between buyers and sellers, the target date for the
implementation of these actions was left unspecified.



4
13.   In 1995, the new government (appointed in late 1994) recognized that the devastating state of the
industry called for acceleration of the corporatization and price liberalization process, and the rapid
closing of the most uneconomic mines. Thirty nine mines were selected for closure, including 24 mines
that were to be closed in the first group in 1995-1998. The Government promised to help to alleviate
the social problems connected with the closing of mines, and urged the coal industry to focus on the
rationalization of the better mines through organizational/managerial changes and targeted investments.
It became clear to the Government that without a fundamental change of established attitudes and
practices, further deepening of the current crisis of the coal industry was unavoidable.
C.    Institutional Arrangements and Employment
14.   Government Oversight. The Ministry of the Coal Industry (MCI), the key government agency
for the coal sector, was established in late 1994, taking over the responsibilities of the former State Coal
Committee. MCI is responsible for the development of government policy in the coal sector, appointment
and supervision of enterprise managers, approval of coal production and marketing plans, establishment
of coal prices, advising the government on the allocation of subsidies (and directed credit), and decisions
regarding the closure and development of mines. The Ministry of Economy plays an important role in
the development of annual and long term production and investment programs and financing
arrangements. The role of the Ministry of Finance is focussed on the approval of subsidies in connection
with the annual budget cycles.
15.   Industrial Structure. There are 383 enterprises in the coal industry. Out of these, 295
enterprises are organized into 40 associations, and 88 are free-standing (or independent). Twenty three
associations are engaged in coal production, three in coal washing, and the rest are active in geological
research, shaft design, mine construction, mine automation and mechanization, and equipment repair.
The coal washing associations operate 45 washing plants, while 17 washing plants belong to coal
production associations and two to independent mines. The independent enterprises include coal mines,
and non-core production activities such as peat production plants, machine building plants, engineering
and research institutes, construction companies, and transportation and marketing enterprises (associations
also own non-core production activities). Only 12 mines are independent, all of which are in the
Donbass. The independent mines are generally larger than the other mines (their average annual output
is 60 percent higher), more modern and more efficient (the average unit production cost of independent
mines is 25 percent lower than the unit cost of the rest of the mines). Concerning the legal status of the
enterprises, only 28 are joint stock companies mostly engaged in machine building and construction - the
remainder are non-corporatized state enterprises.
16.   Coal industry enterprises own and operate kindergartens, summer camps for children, houses of
culture, sanatoria, rest houses, sport facilities, and more than 20 million m2 of housing plus related
heating networks and boilers. In 1995, the cost (net of revenues) of operating the social assets was Krb.
31 trillion, equal to about 7 percent of the market value of coal produced. Only a small share of these
costs was covered by contribution from the beneficiaries. Seventy percent of expenditures were on
housing and twenty percent on kindergartens.



5
17.   Employment. In May 1996, the coal industry employed 684,000 people. The composition is
shown below:
Table 1: Coal Sector Employment
coal extraction at mines          410,000
workers                    357,000
o/w underground           267,000
olw surface               90,000
managers/admin.             54,000
other coal extraction'             54,000
other coal production2             18,000
Total Coal Production             482,000
Non-core Production                92,000
Social Assets                     110,000
18.   Marketing. In the past, the coal marketing enterprise, Uglesbyt, played a particularly important
role. It had an exclusive right to purchase coal from mines and washing plants and sell coal to
customers. However, at end-1995, domestic coal marketing was demonopolized. Mines now have
complete freedom to sell coal in the domestic market, and the distribution assets of Uglesbyt have been
divested to individual mines and associations. By June 1996, Uglesbyt (renamed Uglresource) handled
only about 10 percent of total coal sales (although it retained its export monopoly).
D.    Coal Prices, Cross Subsidies and Direct Subsidies
19.   Coal Prices and Cross Subsidies. In 1992-94, coal prices were kept significantly below
domestic production (and import) costs. However, on March 1, 1995, following the transfer of
responsibility for setting coal prices from the Ministry of Economy to MCI, average coal prices were
raised to US$ 33/t, a level that was intended to cover the average cost of domestic production. Actual
coal prices paid by the end-users depend on type, calorific value, ash content, moisture content, sulphur
content and size, and were determined in a price list issued by MCI. Prices paid by Uglesbyt to the
producers (associations and independent mines) were the so-called "accounting prices", which were
determined by modifying wholesale prices on a mine-by-mine basis with a factor that took into account
the production costs of each mine (while keeping the average "accounting price" equal to the average
wholesale price). This arrangement allowed the cross-subsidization of high-cost associations and mines
by low-cost ones, and became a major source of financing for loss-making mines as direct subsidies from
the Government budget were cut.
I/    Maintenance and mine development workers who are not attached to specific mines, and coal
association administrative staff.
2/    Support workers for miners.



6
20.   The cross-subsidies that the high cost mines have received from the low cost ones (an estimated
US$ 400 million in 1995) reduced the incentives to increase efficiency, and, for the better mines, denied
the opportunity to reinvest profits to maintain or further improve performance. By mid-1995, this system
of transfers between mining associations, independent mines, and Uglesbyt was under severe strain. This
was due to the increasing level of receivables on sales arranged through the regional units of Uglesbyt,
and also by the increasing reluctance of the more profitable mines and the regional Uglesbyt offices to
transfer the payments to the high cost mines. This exacerbated the cashflow position of the highest cost
mines, bringing them closer to the point of collapse.
21.   Direct Subsidies. The coal industry has received substantial subsidies under a number of
headings (e.g., compensation for low prices, support of centralized investments, geological survey) and
channels (e.g., budgetary grant, credit from the budget, credit from the National Bank and from
commercial banks guaranteed by the budget). These subsidies have significantly contributed to the overall
budget deficit. The support for the coal industry was equivalent to 8.3 percent of total budgetary
expenditures (about 4 percent of GDP) in 1993, and 5.6 percent of budget expenditures (3 percent of
GDP) in 1994. In 1995, Krb. 36 trillion of production/investment subsidies were spent on the coal
industry, equivalent to only 1.6 percent of total budget expenditures (about 0.8 percent of GDP).
22.   This declining trend of subsidies (as a percentage of GDP) clearly indicated a change in the
direction of fiscal policy, despite considerable political pressure to reverse the trend. However, the
sustainability of this rate of decline was highly questionable given that direct subsidies were replaced to
a considerable extent by cross-subsidies and by arrears accumulation, in the absence of a fundamental
restructuring of the coal industry. Indeed, during the course of 1995 the gradual breakdown of the cross-
subsidy system described above and increased import competition, led to substantial arrears accumulation,
the imposition of a coal import tax3 in July, and a resurgence of direct subsidies in the second half of the
year (the Krb. 36 trillion - equivalent to US$ 240 million - spent on the sector represented an overrun
of almost 30 percent on the amount originally budgeted for the coal sector).
23.   Payables and Receivables. Accumulated payables of the coal sector rose to US$ 1.05 billion
equivalent by August 1995 (from US$ 338 million in the first quarter of the year), representing about 6
percent of total inter-enterprise arrears in Ukraine. By the same date, receivables reached US$ 760
million (from US$ 210 million in the first quarter). Under severe political pressure in the latter half of
1995, the Government undertook various budgetary outlays and loan guarantees to pump liquidity into
the coal sector to stabilize the position, particularly in view of the growing wage arrears. However, the
financial situation of the coal industry continued to deteriorate and by June 1996 the net negative position
had reached approximately US$ 1.1 billion (payables of US$ 2.2 billion and receivables of US$ 1.1
billion). The majority of these payables are owed to the workforce or to public sector creditors; a
substantial portion of debts to the latter can be interpreted as a quasi-fiscal subsidy.
24.   Financing the Coal Industry's Losses. In short, the US$ 240 million of direct subsidies in 1995
were supplemented by an estimated billion dollars in cross-subsidies and net arrears accumulation. The
1996 budget recognized the overambitious nature of the decline in fiscal support in 1995, and included
Krb. 151 trillion for the coal sector (equivalent to 2 percent of GDP, 4 percent of total Government
expenditures, or approximately US$ 750 million). Almost all of the Krb. 42 trillion (equivalent to about
3/     The tax is fixed in ECUs/tonne and is differentiated by type of coal; it is equivalent to about 10 percent
of the value of the coal.



7
US$ 230 million) disbursed in the first five months of 1996 went to pay wage arrears. Nevertheless, in
early June 1996, a very substantial wage arrears problem remained - Krb. 36.4 trillion (plus Krb. 46.2
trillion of unpaid pension and other social protection contributions). The effective abolition of cross-
subsidies during the first quarter of 1996, and the continued appreciation of the real exchange rate, were
clearly creating pressure for direct subsidies. Total coal industry losses for 1996 are projected at US$
606 million.4
PART III. The Government's Reform Program for the Coal Sector
A.    Introduction
25.    The Government has embarked on a fundamental reform of the coal sector, which is expected
to take at least 8-10 years to complete - this represents a major challenge given international experience
on the feasible pace of coal restructuring. The reform program aims to (i) salvage the economically
viable portion of the coal industry through an increase in productive efficiency and competitiveness; (ii)
diminish the fiscal burden imposed by the coal sector; and (iii) provide a social safety net for the
mineworkers and their communities affected by sector adjustment.
26.   Intensive dialogue on this reform program took place between the Government and the Bank in
the context of preparation of the Ukraine Coal Industry Restructuring Report (Report No. 15056-UA,
March 4, 1996); the policy recommendations of the report were discussed and agreed with senior
Government officials in January 1996. In February 1996 a Presidential Decree was adopted which
outlines the main measures to be undertaken in the Government's coal sector reform program.5 The
program covers market liberalization, corporatization of potentially viable mines, closure of loss-making
mines, social cost mitigation, social asset divestiture, mine privatization, and privatization of non-core
activities. The program is discussed in detail below.
27.    The Government's program was discussed at a widely-publicized conference on the Ukrainian
Coal Industry held in Kiev, April 11-12, 1996, in which central and local government officials, labor
unions, mine management and international organizations participated. The program is also being
discussed between management and labor at the local level in a series of consultative meetings.
B.    Market Liberalization
28.    The use of the accounting price mechanism to effect cross-subsidies from low-cost to high-cost
mines was abolished in early 1996. At the same time, mines became free to market coal in competition
with each other without the intermediation of Uglesbyt. The price list issued by MCI, specifying prices
at which sales contracts can be concluded, was abolished when the mine corporatization process was
completed in late 1996 (although non-corporatized mines in receipt of production subsidies are required
4/     For operational simplicity, profits/losses are defined throughout this report as net accrued operating
income before interest and depreciation. Allowances for depreciation and the use of borrowed funds are both so
low in the Ukrainian coal sector that this definition does not represent a significant distortion.
5/1    Decree 116/96 of February 7, 1996. This decree was followed on March 4, 1996 by Order 73 of the
Minister of the Coal Industry, which outlined the implementation arrangements.



8
to report their prices to the Ministry of Economy). At the same time, all corporatized mines have been
granted the right to export coal (known as "special exporter" status)6; a requirement that all coal export
contracts be reviewed by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade will remain in place until
early 1997, at which time coal exports will be fully liberalized. In order to maintain competition for
domestic producers, there will be no increase in coal import taxes nor imposition of quantitative
restrictions on coal imports.'
C.    Restructuring and Privatization
29.    All 276 mines have been divided into four categories. Category 1 mines are currently profitable
and will receive no subsidies (76 mines). This will create the preconditions for privatization in the
medium term (see para. 36 on the constraints on near-term privatization). Mines currently making losses
will either be closed immediately or will be subsidized on a temporary basis. These have been classified
into: (a) Category 2 mines (of which there are 105) which have the lowest losses and which will be
allowed one year to regain viability and possibly graduate to Category 1; (b) Category 3 mines (75)
which are scheduled for closure in the medium term unless they can undertake sufficient improvements
in profitability to demonstrate viability - in the meantime closure plans are under preparation for all
Category 3 mines; and (c) Category 4 mines (20) which are scheduled for immediate closure.
30.    The Category 1 and 2 mines will be corporatized and placed under 15 state-owned holding
companies (which will also include coal washing plants and marketing enterprises).8 Category 3 mines
will be supervised by newly-created divisions of the Ministry of the Coal Industry (MCI) at the oblast
level. Category 4 mines will cease production and be transferred to the closure agency, UDKR.
31.    The allocation of the temporary production subsidies for each Category 2 and 3 mine within the
budgetary ceiling (determined for each oblast in accordance with the overall ceiling for production
subsidies agreed between MCI and the Ministry of Finance) will be decided by MCI, after submission
of proposals from the oblast-level divisions of MCI. Subsidy allocations will be based in particular on
(i) expected annual operating cost as a function of current costs and changes in input prices, geological
conditions, labor productivity, etc.; and (ii) expected annual revenue as a function of coal production and
the market value of coal. Category 2 and 3 mines will be prohibited from investment and recruitment
(except for transfers from other Category 2 and 3 mines under the same oblast-level division of MCP,
and Category 2 mines will be permitted to recruit faceworkers and average increases in wage rates will
6/     The right to export coal currently requires admission to the status of "special exporter" under Ukrainian
trade legislation, which is granted on a case-by-case basis.
7/     The existing coal import duty of approximately 10 percent provides only a low level of protection. In
addition, in view of the projected real appreciation of the exchange rate, effective protection of Ukrainian coal
is expected to decline.
8/     Holding companies will include both Category 1 and 2 mines (at least in most cases). The consequent
risk of cross-subsidies from Category 1 to Category 2 mines within a given holding company is mitigated by the
allocation of direct budget subsidies to Category 2 mines and by the one-year limit on the life of Category 2.
9/     In view of this exception, those workers least able or willing to leave the coal industry consequent on
mine downsizing or closure can be temporarily absorbed by other mines; this measure is designed to reduce the
social costs of employment reduction and hence decrease political resistance to labor restructuring.



9
not exceed the minimum level consistent with the Coal Industry Tariff Agreement (the industry-wide wage
agreement).
32.   In order to minimize the need for subsidies and to enhance productivity, employment contracts
for managers of Category 2 and 3 mines will provide for performance-related remuneration (from January
1, 1997). The incentive payments will be based on the difference between (i) actual subsidies and
budgeted subsidies; and (ii) payables at the beginning and the end of the year (see Annex 4 for
elaboration of the performance contract mechanism).
33.   As an alternative option for Category 3 mines, the Government has established a mechanism for
leasing mines to mine management, employees or other private parties. The Government recognizes that
employment reductions and the settlement of wage arrears may be necessary to attract lessees. At
commencement of the lease, accumulated payables and receivables will be disposed of through a debt
restructuring process (the Government will assume the social liabilities). A leased mine would not be
eligible for fiscal support after commencement of the lease. MCI is seeking technical assistance to design
and implement the debt restructuring and leasing processes (from USAID and the UK Know-How Fund
respectively).
34.   Movement between categories will be possible, but only if mines which transfer conform to the
requirements of the new category. A mine moving from Category 1 to Category 3 will thus be eligible
for subsidies but will not be allowed to recruit new workers, undertake investment, or pay salary
increases above the minimum. A mine moving from Category 2 or 3 to Category 1 will no longer be
eligible for subsidies but will be allowed to invest, and will have autonomy over wage and recruitment
policy. Category 2 will cease to exist one year after the original division of mines into categories and
no movement into Category 2 will be permitted during that year; mines still in Category 2 at the end of
the year will be distributed between Category 1 and Category 3 depending on whether they are profitable
or not.
35.   In order to enhance coal sector efficiency and reduce costs, all non-core productive activities (with
the exception of coal washing facilities) will be divested and privatized or will be liquidated by end-1997.
Social assets of the coal industry will be transferred to local government administration or will be
privatized by mid-1998 (see para. 43).
D.    Investment in Viable Mines
36.   The Government wishes to promote investment in potentially viable mines in view of the
outmoded technology, low productivity and very poor health and safety record of even those mines which
have good geological and economic prospects. In view of the level of uncertainty over sustainability of
the new policy framework, the poor industrial relations experienced by the coal industry, the poor
financial position of major customers (particularly the power'" and steel sectors), and the weakness of the
Ukrainian banking sector, significant availability of private capital for the coal industry is unlikely in the
near term. However, the nature of the coal mining process is such that investment in replacement mining
capacity is periodically required in each mine if that mine is not to cease production. In addition,
investment in the viable mines may prove necessary for political acceptability of the overall restructuring
10/   The Ukraine Electricity Market Development Project focusses on improving financial discipline in the
power sector.



10
process. The Government has therefore decided to provide direct support for investment in Category 1
mines until private capital is forthcoming.'"
37.    Any investment support from the Government will be provided in the form of loans at the
National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) discount rate (and within the public investment program). Mines will
be required to provide at least 20 percent of investment costs from non-budgetary sources. Such
investment will be focussed on enhancement of capacity utilization in existing mines; this will serve to
minimize both the distortionary effects of government intervention and its fiscal cost. The Government
budget for the coal sector (see para. 45 & ff.) will place a cap on such investment support.
E.    Closure of Unviable Mines and Mitigation of Social and Environmental Costs
38.    Mine Closure. The Government intends to close 20 mines per year for the next few years,
although the pace may accelerate if that proves socially acceptable and financially feasible. Estimates of
the number of unviable mines to be closed over the medium term currently include more than half the
industry.'2 Mine closure plans include social and environmental mitigation measures. Physical closure
(i.e. shaft-filling and land reclamation) and social mitigation will be managed by the mine closure agency,
UDKR. The liabilities and assets of closing mines will be transferred to a receiver for disposal.'3
39.    Environmental Management.  The Government will ensure that mines are closed in an
environmentally sound manner. The Coal Pilot Project (approved by the Board, May 16, 1996) which
focusses on three mine closures will yield lessons (by early 1997) for enviromnental management
practices as regards shaft-filling, control of emissions (of methane, sulphur oxide, particulate matters
etc.), fire hazards, water quality control, safety of storage sites and abandoned buildings, erosion from
tailing piles, subsidence and land reclamation (these issues are discussed in detail in the Coal Pilot Project
Staff Appraisal Report). Monitoring and evaluation under the Pilot Project is being carried out by
independent experts under the supervision of UDKR to assess compliance with the environmental
management plan for each mine. The lessons drawn from the experience under the Coal Pilot Project
will be applied to the sector-wide mine closure program, and the plan for closure of each mine will
include environmental analysis. UDKR is receiving technical assistance to develop its environmental
monitoring and evaluation capacity to carry out these functions on a sector-wide basis.
40.    Social Mitigation. The phasing of mine closures is intended to spread the social costs over time
and to minimize the risk of political upheaval undermining the overall sector restructuring program. In
general, the mines with the highest financial losses will be closed earliest. However, in certain cases
those mines are highly concentrated geographically; in such cases, sequencing of closures will be
necessary on social grounds. The Government places a very high priority on the mitigation of the social
costs of mine closure that are borne by mineworkers and their communities.
11/    Some investment in safety enhancement may be needed in Category 2 and 3 mines, which will be
funded through the production subsidy.
12/   It is assumed that all category 3 and 4 mines and half of category 2 mines will be closed - a total of
about 160 mines.
13/    Technical assistance in the design of the debt restructuring process (including the terms of reference of
the receiver) is being provided by USAID.



11
41.    The Government has assumed the liability for the statutory minimum severance pay (three months
wages) for layoffs of workers in the context of either mine closure or labor force downsizing. Annex
3 provides details of projected employment reduction. In addition, the Government has taken over the
liability for disability payments (as well as the provision of free coal to disabled ex-mineworkers) for
mines to be leased or closed. In the case of mine closure, the Government will also take over any
liability for settlement of wage arrears. These measures will provide an immediate social safety net for
mineworkers leaving the industry. The inability of mines to meet all these liabilities is a major obstacle
to labor force restructuring and a cause of poverty amongst redundant miners. In addition, the gradual
improvement in the financial health of the mining sector will eliminate the wage arrears problem for those
remaining in the coal industry. The cost of free coal distribution to coal industry pensioners, currently
borne by the coal mines, will also be assumed by the Government from the beginning of 1997.
42.    In addition to the Government's takeover of these social liabilities, special social mitigation
programs funded by the Government budget (see para.45 & ff.) are being established in all coal mining
oblasts to provide a social safety net and promote employment creation for ex-mineworkers and for their
communities; these programs will provide medium-term social mitigation for mineworkers leaving the
industry. Implementation of these programs will draw on the experience gained in Donetsk oblast under
the Coal Pilot Project, which includes labor-intensive public works, job search and pre-redundancy
counseling, reemployment support, microcredit for small businesses, and free coal for ex-mineworkers
and their families.
43.    Mines currently own substantial social assets (principally of housing and kindergartens but also
health and recreational facilities). These assets tend to be very inadequately maintained, which imposes
a significant social cost on mining communities. They will be fully transferred to municipal administration
or be privatized by mid-1998. In cases where cost recovery for services transferred to the municipalities
is less than 100 percent, the municipalities will receive targeted budgetary transfers to cover the shortfall
until mid-1998.'4 In the case of mine housing transferred to municipalities, a central government budget
allocation will be made to the municipalities to contribute to the cost of deferred maintenance and capital
repairs in view of the extreme dilapidation of much of this housing."5
44.    Social Impact Monitoring. Mechanisms for social impact monitoring and extensive public
participation are being reinforced to ensure that consultation with affected parties is maximized and that
social protection programs are indeed reaching the intended beneficiaries.'6 The social impact indicators
which are being monitored include (i) receipt of severance pay, back wages, disability payments,
unemployment benefits, pensions, and free coal by beneficiaries; (ii) availability of training, job search
and pre-redundancy counselling, and employment services; (iii) availability of an adequate level of health
14/    The Government intends by January 1, 1997 to introduce full recovery of the operations and
maintenance costs of housing (which constitutes about 70 percent of the assets to be transferred). For other
social assets (principally kindergartens) the operating losses (about US$ 19 million per year) will be funded by a
targeted central government transfer through mid-1998 and from the general income (including general transfers
from the central government) of the municipalities thereafter (although a substantial portion of the social assets
will eventually be privatized by the municipalities).
15/    See Patrick Bodnar, 'Coal SECAL Social Assets Component", June 1996 for detailed cost estimates.
16/    The Coal Pilot Project is financing a program of stakeholder participation in the coal industry
restructuring process.



12
and education services, housing maintenance, heating and utilities; (iv) individual worker notification of
mine closure and employment status, availability of public information on sector restructuring and social
protection; (v) effectiveness of public works, reemployment support, and microcredit programs; (vi)
adequacy of UDKR's implementation capacity. Monitoring of the social impact of restructuring is also
expected to yield information on barriers to labor mobility and employment creation. Annex 5 provides
further detail on social impact monitoring.
F.    Redirection and Reduction of Subsidies
45.    The ultimate objective of the Government's coal sector reform program is a competitive and
efficient industry no longer reliant on budgetary support. Given the depth of the industry's problems,
the phasing out of budgetary support will take several years - current projections suggest that production
subsidies will cease in 2002 (see Table 3). Moreover, the process of restructuring itself creates a
substantial need for budgetary support. Market liberalization and the resulting elimination of cross-
subsidies require direct subsidization to those mines which previously received cross-subsidies (although
the fiscal cost of these measures will be partly offset by increased profit tax revenue from those mines
which carried the burden of cross-subsidies); physical, social and enviromnental costs of mine closure
and labor force downsizing will need to be funded by the state if the restructuring program is to be
sustainable; social asset transfer will require budgetary transfers from central to local government
(although this will be mitigated by increased cost recovery); and budget support for investment to enhance
capacity utilization in viable mines may be necessary for the political feasibility of the restructuring
process.
46.    The Government budget for the coal sector in late 1996 and in 1997 will refocus fiscal support
on the restructuring process, within a multi-year framework for the phasing out of fiscal support (in
particular, of production subsidies).17 In parallel, the Government will ensure that quasi-fiscal subsidies
do not substitute for the loss of direct subsidies through the further accumulation of payables; this is to
be achieved through a combination of bankruptcy proceedings"3, the performance contract mechanism and
improved financial discipline amongst coal industry customers and suppliers (in particular the power
sector). This medium-term decline in fiscal and quasi-fiscal support will be a critical element in
promoting restructuring of the viable core and closure of the non-viable portion of the coal industry.
47.    The evolution of key variables in the coal industry as reform is implemented is given in Table
2 below. These projections constitute the performance indicators of the sector reform program. The
medium-term budgetary framework with and without sector reform are given in Tables 3 and 4 below
(the key assumptions behind these projections are outlined in Annex 3). The with-reform scenario shows
substantially lower budgetary flows than without reform. This is primarily because the social and
physical costs of mine closure will be outweighed by the savings in production subsidies to the closing
mines and to the remaining mines, whose budget constraints will be hardened by the sector reforms.
17/    The IMF is considering incorporating a provision in the proposed Extended Fund Facility such that the
overall fiscal deficit target in 1997 will be higher if coal restructuring expenditures are undertaken and SECAL
financing is provided.
18/   It is expected that the design and implementation (with USAID-financed technical assistance) of debt
restructuring procedures for mines to be leased or closed will serve as a pilot for such procedures to be applied
to debts of the rest of the coal industry.



13
However, in the absence of reforms it is probable that the Government would not actually be prepared
to provide the very large budgetary flows necessary to cover the projected financing needs - the shortfall
would then be financed by arrears accumulation by the coal industry.
Table 2: A Snapshot of the Coal Industry as Reform is Implemented
(Coal SECAL Performance Indicators)
199C             1997              2004
Number of mines"9                            276               222               129
Output (unwashed coal) (million
tonnes)                                       75                 80              92
Profit/(loss) ($ millions):
all mines                                -745              -243              253
subsidized mines                         -851              -468
$ cost/tonne (excl. interest and
depreciation):
all mines                                  35.5              30.1             29.3
subsidized mines                           50.9              41.7                   l
$ price/tonne                                 25.6              27.0             32.1
Budget support as % of GDP                     2.021              1.6              0.06
o/w production subsidy                       1.6                0.9              -
Budget support as % of total
government expenditure                         4.4                3.6              0.16
Employment in coal extraction (mid-      463,000           402,000           162,000
year)2I
Output/employee                              162                199             568
19/ These figures represent the numbers of mines in production at the beginning of 1996, the end of 1997, and
the end of 2004 respectively.
20/   These figures exclude those employed in the non-core production activities and in social assets (these
are to be divested from the coal industry).



14
Table 3: The 'With-reform" Scenario
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __.... ... ...     .s s.....
Year,            ,,       :      '96:   '97:   ,  -'96    '99"   '00E     '0       ' Et   02- '030  d  '"04 '
Production Subsidy2'               638      468      270     214    89         0       0      0       0
Net Investment Loans                 31      32      107     106   111        -7      -74   -95    -95
Special Social                       10      37       49      51    85        61       7      7       7
Mitigation Programs                                                                                     l
Physical Cost of Mine                27     100       72      83    73        35       0      0       0
Closure
Severance Pay                         7      16       14      17    34         3       3      3       3
Wage Arrears for Closing &           12      26       12       0      0        0       0      0       0
Leased Mines
Disability Payments for Mines to     15      42       50      68    91       107     114   121    127
be Closed or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry           0      32       33      33    34        35      36    37       38
Pensioners
Social Asset Transfer               75       42       13       0      0        0       0      0       0
TOTAL                              815      794      620     572   517      233       86    73       80
Year'9    -'9'j7-  '96                                        '99  ,-,-'00    D    "'02   '03        '04: _._  
Production Subsidy                  118      89       51      41    17         0       0      0       0
Net Investment Loans                 6        6       20      20    21       -1      -14   -18      -18
Special Social Mitigation Programs   2        7        9      10    16        12       1      1       1
Physical Cost of Mine Closure        5       19       14      16    14         7       0      0       0
Severance Pay                         1       3        3       3      7        1       1      1       1
Wage Arrears for Closing &            2       5        2       0      0        0       0      0       0
Leased Mines
Disability Payments for Mines to      3       8       10      13    17        20      22    23       24
be Closed or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry          0        6        6       6      6       7        7      7       7
Pensioners
Social Asset Transfer                14       8        2       0      0       0        0      0       0
TOTAL                              151      151      118     109    98       44       16    14       15
21/    The 1996 production subsidy figure represents the amount budgeted. It is projected to fall short of the
amount actually needed in the with-reform scenario by US$ 213 million or Krb. 39 trillion (0.5 percent of
GDP), which will lead to a corresponding increase in the net payables position of the coal industry.



15
Table 4: The "Without-reform" Scenario
.... ........ ..US$ Million                           _  _
1-  -:-  -" -'"::'- -' -:' -': '' " ' ' ' .            '       --=                  --
'96 ;97 -   -98          '99       '         '01    '02     '0       '04
Production Subsidy              784    1130      1319    1487      1650      1792   1918    2109    2210
Investment Grant                 31      32       120     137       150        67       0       0       0
Special Social
Mitigation Programs               0       0        0       0         0          0      0       0        0
Physical Cost of Mine
Closure                          0       0        0        0         0         0      0       0        0
Severance Pay                     0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0       0
Wage Arrears for Closing &
Leased Mines                      0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0       0
Disability Payments for Mines     0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0       0
to be Closed or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry
Pensioners                        0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0       0
Social Asset Transfer             0       0        0        0         0         0      0        0       0
TOTAL                           815    1162      1439    1624      1800      1859   1918    2109    2210
___________________             ~~Trillion  Karbovinets
Yea-              -'9                    '9"''' '''''-' ' "'9       '00       '01   '2         '09   "'' *' "- ' '"- '04
Production Subsidy              145     215      251      283       313       341    364      401    420
Investment Grant                  6       6       23       26        29        13       0       0       0
Special Social Mitigation         0       0        0        0         0         0      0        0      0
Programs                   IL         I     I_I_I                      _ I_I_I_1                         _ 1
ost of Mine Closure               0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0      0
Severance Pay                     0       0         0       0         0         0      0        0       0
Wage Arrears for Closing &        0       0         0       0         0         0      0        0      0
Leased Mines                        I
Disability Payments for Mines     0       0        0        0         0         0      0        0      0
to be Closed or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry       0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0       0
Pensioners
Social Asset Transfer             0       0         0       0         0         0       0       0       0
TOTAL                           151 j   221      274      309 j    342        354 j  364      401 i  420
22/    The 1996 total represents the amount budgeted. It is projected to fall short of the amount actually
needed to fund the production subsidy in the without-reform scenario by US$ 179 million or Krb. 33 trillion,
which will lead to a corresponding increase in the net payables position of the coal industry.



16
Part IV. The Proposed Sector Adjustment Loan
A.    Rationale for Bank Involvement
48.   The proposed Coal Sector Adjustment Loan (Coal SECAL) will provide a significant portion of
Ukraine's balance of payments and budget deficit financing needs in late 1996 and in 1997, including part
of the fiscal costs of restructuring the coal sector. Without the loan, the upfront costs of sector
restructuring, including its social mitigation, would almost certainly not be financed. The Bank's
provision of the proposed loan, and its associated conditionality, would enhance the credibility of the
Government's sector reform program. In the absence of the loan, budgetary support to the sector would
be limited, large arrears would accumulate, and little or no restructuring would take place. The lack of
restructuring would prevent the attainment of productivity improvements in the sector, deepen the poverty
of those currently dependent on the sector for their livelihood, and risk undermining macroeconomic
stability through funding of growing losses in the sector. The proposed Coal SECAL complements the
IMF's support for the Government's macroeconomic stabilization program through the ongoing Standby
Arrangement and the proposed Extended Fund Facility (the latter will be designed to reflect the key fiscal
and structural measures of the Government's coal sector reform program in its conditionality).
49.   The proposed loan is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (discussed by the Board on
June 27, 1996) in its focus on public sector restructuring and mitigating the social costs of adjustment.
It will also facilitate private sector development through the rapid privatization of non-core activities and
some social assets, and through creating the preconditions for the eventual privatization of core activities
and the remaining social assets. Furthermore, rapid private sector development as promoted by the
Government's overall structural reform program supported by other Bank interventions (e.g. the
Enterprise Development Adjustment loan approved on June 27, 1996, Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (approved on October 17, 1996), will be critical to the success of restructuring in the coal sector,
particularly through their impact on the creation of alternative employment opportunities.
50.   The proposed Coal SECAL has been prepared in parallel with a Coal Pilot Project (approved on
May 16, 1996) which will finance the physical and social costs associated with closing three coal mines.
However, as the full restructuring of the sector will take at least 8-10 years, additional external financing
will be needed. Further Bank lending in support of coal sector adjustment would be considered if the
first phase of restructuring, to be implemented under the proposed SECAL, is successful; success would
be measured by timely implementation of the measures in the sector reform program and by attainment
of the performance indicators (see Table 2). A follow-on Coal Restructuring Project is provisionally
planned for FY97 to cover a larger number of mine closures, building on those aspects of the Pilot
Project which prove to be effective; in addition, further support through the Bank's adjustment lending
program may prove desirable to consolidate and deepen the restructuring process. The proposed SECAL
is also complementary to the Bank's interventions in the Ukrainian power sector, particularly the
Electricity Market Development Project (approved on October 10, 1996), through the focus in both
operations on financial discipline and market liberalization.
B.    Program Implementation and Loan Conditions
51.   The Government's program of measures to reform the coal industry through the end of 1997 is
reflected in a Letter of Coal Sector Policy (LCSP) (attached in Annex 1). Implementation and monitoring
of the LCSP will be the primary responsibility of the Ministry of the Coal Industry (MCI), in
collaboration with relevant central and branch ministries (in particular, the Ministries of Economy,



17
Finance, Labor and Social Protection), the State Property Fund, and local authorities. MCI has already
established teams for this purpose.
52.   The UK Know-How Fund is providing assistance to the Ministry of the Coal Industry and UDKR
(the mine closure agency) to implement and monitor the reform program. USAID is to provide advice
and training to MCI and the coal industry on debt restructuring. In addition, the Bank's Coal Pilot
Project includes assistance to develop a public information strategy, social protection and assessment
programs, environmental mitigation plans, and regional/local economic development programs. EU
TACIS will provide additional assistance in mitigating the social impact of coal restructuring. This is
intended to facilitate the generalization of lessons from the Coal Pilot Project across all closing mines in
the Donbass region. The newly-corporatized companies will need assistance in the areas of investment
policy, marketing, financial management, and accounting; USAID, EU TACIS and the UK Know-How
Fund intend to provide such assistance for part of the coal industry. Further assistance in these areas will
be sought from other donors.
53.   The proposed SECAL will be released in two equal tranches: the first on effectiveness and the
second on fulfillment of the specific tranche release conditions outlined below, if general progress in
implementation of the sector reform program (as outlined in the LCSP) and in macroeconomic
stabilization are also satisfactory.
54.   The following measures were implemented prior to Board presentation of the proposed loan:
Sector Restructuring
(i)    division (by Ministerial Order) of all mines into four categories:
1.    profitable mines;
2.    potentially profitable mines which are allowed one year to demonstrate
their viability;
3.    non-viable mines for which closure plans are under preparation and
which will be eventually transferred to UDKR;
4.    non-viable mines for immediate transfer to UDKR.
(ii)   initiation by Ministerial Order of performance contract system for category 2 and 3 mines
and of leasing arrangements for category 3 mines;
(iii)   corporatization of all mines in categories 1 and 2, and establishment of 15 holding
companies to own those mines;
(iv)   placing (by Ministerial Order) of all category 3 mines under direct supervision of the
Ministry of the Coal Industry;



18
Market Liberalization
(v)    granting all corporatized coal mines special exporter status (by decision of the Cabinet
of Ministers);
(vi)   abolition of price control (in particular, the price list system has been eliminated by
Ministerial Order) except for category 3 mines which will be required to declare their
prices to the Ministry of Economy;
Budget Support
(vii)  establishment (by Ministerial Order) of a subsidy allocation mechanism that restricts
subsidies to those mines in categories 2 and 3 that satisfy the following criteria:
(a)    prohibition of recruitment (except from other Category 2 or 3 mines in
the same oblast and recruitment of faceworkers by Category 2 mines will
not be restricted);
(b)    limitation of average increases in wage rates to the increase in the
minimum wage rate specified in the Coal Industry Tariff Agreement; and
(c)    prohibition of investment;'
(viii) establishment by Ministerial Order of a mechanism that provides budget support for
investment only under the following conditions:
(a)    only Category 1 mines will be eligible for budgetary support for
investment;
(b)    all support to be in the form of loans at the NBU discount rate;
(c)    all investments to have a minimum of 15 percent expected internal rate
of return, confirmed by independent expert review, and to be accepted
within the Government's public investment program;
(d)    at least 20 percent of investment cost to be funded from non-budgetary
sources;
23/    The investment prohibition for mines which receive subsidies does not apply to expenses for:
-      normal mine development work required to prepare replacement faces and works required to
assure health and safety of mineworkers;
-      replacement of parts and sub-assemblies of equipment essential for production; and
-      acquisition of a sufficient stock of parts and materials to ensure reliable and safe production in
the short-run.



19
(e)    no budget support for investment in new mines; 24
(ix)    agreement between the Goverment and the Bank on the Government budget for the coal
sector for 1997,5 including allocations for production subsidies, investment loans,26
physical costs of mine closure (including environmental mitigation), settlement of social
liabilities, special social mitigation programs, and funding of social asset divestiture;'
Social Mitigation
(x)    agreement with the Bank on mine closure procedures (including public announcement of
mine closure) and satisfactory progress in the implementation of the closure plans,
including commencement of the social and environmental mitigation measures, with
respect to at least 20 mines which have ceased production and have been transferred to
UDKR;28
(xi)   Government take over of severance pay liability from  mines undergoing labor
restructuring;
(xii)  effectiveness of the Coal Pilot Project, and budgetary transfers to UDKR and the
municipalities necessary for Coal Pilot Project functioning have been made;
(xiii)  satisfactory performance under the Coal Pilot Project with respect to the receipt of statutory cash
benefits and free coal distribution by ex-mineworkers9;
(xiv)  putting in place monitoring mechanisms to assess social mitigation and social asset
transfer;
24/    Where construction of new mines in the Government's investment program had already commenced by
August 1, 1996 a review of those investments will be completed by end 1996 using the rate of return criterion
described in Annex 2. Budget support for investment expenditures made after such review will be converted to
a loan basis once the mine is operating.
25/    The assumptions used in the calculation of the 1997 budget for the coal industry are presented in Annex
3.
26/    The proposed investment allocation mechanism is described in Annex 2.
27/    The with-reform scenario (Table 3) reflects the agreed 1997 budget.
28/    In addition, the Government will ensure that the payment of statutory benefits, distribution of free coal
and the establishment of satisfactory arrangements for continued access to social assets for laid-off, retired or
disabled workers from these mines takes place within 60 days of loan effectiveness. This is reflected as a
covenant in the loan agreement.
29/    Statutory cash benefits include back wages, severance pay, unemployment benefits, disability pay and
pensions. Free coal is to be distributed to mineworkers leaving the coal industry involuntarily, mineworkers
laid-off due to disability, families of workers killed in mine accidents, and coal industry pensioners.



20
Economy-wide Reform
(xv)   satisfactory macroeconomic performance.
55.    The following measures will have been implemented prior to release of the second tranche:
Sector Restructuring
(i)    signature of performance contracts (based on a model satisfactory to the Bank) for all
category 2 and 3 mines (other than those which are leased);
(ii)   satisfactory progress on corporatization/privatization of non-core activities;
Market Liberalization
(iii)   abolition of all restrictions on coal exports, except if an anti-dumping investigation has
been initiated against Ukrainian coal exports;'
Budget Support
(iv)    any investment support from the budget to have been consistent with the Ministerial
Order establishing the conditions for such support (namely only Category I mines, loans
at the NBU discount rate, minimum 15 percent rate of return, investment to be within
PIP, at least 20 percent of investment costs to be from non-budgetary sources, and no
investment in new mines).
(v)    Government expenditures in the coal sector to have been consistent with the agreed 1997
budget (both in aggregate and in composition);
(vi)   payables of mines in Categories 1, 2 and 3 not to exceed the level prevailing for August
1, 1996;
Social and Environmental Mitiyation
(vii)  satisfactory progress in implementing social and environmental mitigation measures
related to the 40 or more mines which will have ceased production and have been
transferred to UDKR.3' This will require (a) implementation in a manner satisfactory to
30/    Under Ukrainian trade legislation, if a commodity is subject to an anti-dumping investigation initiated
by an importing country subsequent export contracts must be reviewed by the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Relations and Trade. Coal exports have not to date been subject to such an investigation.
311    Details of the mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation of social protection are provided in Annex 5.
Environmental mitigation components of the Coal Pilot Project are expected to be evaluated by early 1997 (see
para. 39 above). The environmental mitigation action plan to be adopted by second tranche release will include
the development of sector-wide monitoring and evaluation systems under the supervision of UDKR.



21
the Bank of an action plan for social and environmental mitigation;32 (b) receipt of
statutory   cash   benefits   and   free   coal  distribution   by
ex-mineworkers; (c) continued access to social assets by laid-off mineworkers; and (d)
satisfactory progress on the physical closure of those mines. The evaluation of social
protection will incorporate information from the social impact indicators outlined in the
Government's Letter of Coal Sector Policy33;
(viii)  divestiture of the social assets of at least 100 mines and receipt by municipalities of funds
budgeted for social asset transfer;
Economy-wide Reform
(ix)   satisfactory macroeconomic performance.
C.    The Proposed Loan
56.    Loan amount and borrower. The proposed Coal SECAL of US$ 300 million would be made
to Ukraine represented by the Ministry of Finance. Disbursements under the proposed SECAL will be
made to the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU), and an account (the "Deposit Account") of the Ministry
of Finance established at the NBU for this purpose will be credited with the domestic currency equivalent
at the official exchange rate of the day (which is defined in Ukraine as the rate determined by the latest
currency auction). The Government will thereby receive non-inflationary budget support. The foreign
exchange proceeds of the proposed SECAL will be sold by the NBU or will be held in reserves, in
accordance with the objectives of monetary policy. The loan will be payable over seventeen years,
including five years of grace, at the variable LIBOR-based interest rate for US$ single currency loans.
57.    Loan management. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan manager employed
by the Ministry of Finance, in view of the budgetary support nature of the loan (see para. 51 on MCI's
management of the program of sector reforms). The loan manager will be responsible for preparing the
withdrawal applications, maintaining the Deposit Account and arranging for its timely audit (if requested
by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will also be responsible
for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
and for writing those sections relating to loan administration, while the MCI will write those sections
concerning implementation of the LCSP.
32/    Such an action plan is to be formulated by February 28, 1997, drawing on the preliminary lessons from
implementation of the Coal Pilot Project. This is reflected as a covenant in the loan agreement.
33/    The social impact indicators which are being monitored include (i) receipt of severance pay, back
wages, disability payments, unemployment benefits, pensions, and free coal by beneficiaries; (ii) availability of
training, job search and pre-redundancy counselling, and employment services; (iii) availability of an adequate
level of health and education services, housing maintenance, heating and utilities; (iv) individual worker
notification of mine closure and employment status, availability of public information on sector restructuring and
social protection; (v) effectiveness of public works, reemployment support, and microcredit programs; (vi)
adequacy of UDKR's implementation capacity.



22
58.   Disbursements.  Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness and of second tranche
release, the proceeds of the first and second tranche respectively of the loan will be deposited by the Bank
in the Deposit Account at the request of the Borrower. If after deposit in this account the proceeds of
the loan are used for ineligible purposes (e.g. to finance items imported from non-member countries, or
goods and services on the Bank's standard negative list), the Bank will require the Borrower to either (a)
return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes, or (b) refund the amount directly to the
Bank (in which case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan). In accordance
with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment
and Sectoral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996) disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases,
and hence there will be no procurement requirements.
59.   Repor*ing, Accounting, and Auditing. Although routine audit of the Deposit Account will not
be required, the Bank reserves the right to require audits at any time.
60.    Closing date. The closing date of the proposed loan will be December 31, 1997.
61.   Environmental category. The loan is in category B for the purposes of OD 4.01. The Letter
of Coal Sector Policy (and second tranche conditionality) includes the extension of environmental
management practices applied under the Coal Pilot Project to all mine closures.
62.   Poverty Category. The proposed SECAL underpins Government policies to mitigate the social
impact of coal sector restructuring through timely settlement of social liabilities, funding of social asset
transfer and special social mitigation programs in coal mining oblasts. The proposed SECAL is therefore
a poverty-focussed operation.
D.    Benefits and Risks
63.   Benefits. The loan will allow the implementation of the first stage of a reform program for the
coal sector which will reduce the need for fiscal subsidies through productivity enhancement and through
addressing urgent social issues. It will also facilitate the reemployment of currently wasted resources in
more productive uses elsewhere in the economy, and will do so in a manner which minimizes the social
costs of adjustment. Implementation of this first stage of reform will make a substantial contribution
towards the medium-term goal of creating a more efficient coal sector, attractive to private capital and
no longer dependent on fiscal or quasi-fiscal support.
64.   Without the loan, (i) the coal sector will represent a permanent threat to macroeconomic stability;
(ii) high-cost mines will continue to be a burden on the more efficient mines if the cross-subsidy system
is reinstated; (iii) payment arrears will continue to accumulate creating hardship for the workforce and
undermining adjustment in the rest of the economy; and (iv) the accumulation of coal sector receivables
will continue to soften the budget constraint on the important power and steel sectors thereby delaying
those sectors' restructuring. Effective reform of the coal sector will also send a strong signal to the rest
of the economy of the Government's resolve to harden budget constraints for state-owned enterprises to
promote restructuring and a competitive market orientation, which in turn will promote economic growth
and underpin macroeconomic stabilization.
65.   Risks. The principal risk is loss of policy commitment by the Government in the face of
resistance by coal industry lobbies with vested interests and by labor unions representing those who bear



23
the social costs. This risk is particularly pronounced because (i) the costs of adjustment are highly
concentrated amongst those who depend on the coal industry while the benefits are diffused through the
Ukrainian population at large; and (ii) the extent of the adjustment required is such that the restructuring
process will be prolonged.
66.   The consequence of a loss of commitment would be a diversion of budgetary subsidies from
restructuring of the industry to the maintenance of output and employment, upward pressure on the
budget overall, and continued loss of potential GDP. Alternatively, there could be pressure for import
protection (particularly if the real exchange rate continues to appreciate) which would retard the
restructuring process in even the more viable mines.
67.   This risk of policy reversal will be mitigated to some extent by (i) social protection and
employment creation measures to minimize the social costs of adjustment; (ii) an effective public
information and participation program to raise awareness both of social protection measures and of the
costs of continued coal sector subsidies borne by the rest of the population; (iii) firm implementation of
coal sector reform such that productivity and profitability gains are apparent early in the adjustment
process (thereby fostering support in the viable core of the industry for the restructuring process); (iv)
timely financial assistance from the Bank; and (v) the resumption of economic growth in Ukraine, through
the implementation of stabilization and overall structural reform, supported by the Bank and the Fund.
However, the risk remains significant.
68.   The factors which create a risk of policy reversal also create a risk of negative publicity for the
Bank. However, this will be mitigated by (i) the extent of Government ownership of the restructuring
program; and (ii) public information concerning the social mitigation aspects of the restructuring program
(the Coal Pilot Project is financing the formulation of a public information strategy for MCI and UDKR).
69.   There is a risk of inadequate institutional capacity to implement the program. This will be
mitigated by technical assistance financed by the UK Know How Fund, USAID, EU TACIS and the
proposed Bank Coal Pilot Project (as well as the possible follow-on Coal Restructuring Project), and by
intensive supervision of the proposed Coal SECAL.
PART V: Recommendation
70.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1996






Annex 1
Transmittal Letter
KABIHET MIHICTPIB YKPAIHH
I6   ;epec- IF 6p.                                  Y,.62-2547/Y
rIaHy )KefMCy cy.ByiB4eHCOHy
rIpe3RzeHTy
MixcHapoaHoro 6aHKy peKOHCTPYKUii
Ta pO3BH4TKY
IIlaHOBHIH riaHe Byjib4eHcoH!
3asqBa, sKa HazaETbCA, npo cTpaTeriuo y ByriTiTHiM iIpoMHcJIo-
BOCTi, BHI3HatIaE nporpaMy peC)OpM B YKpaiHi. HaMipamI nporpaMI
40ijI, 51K ripBegeHi B 3asBi, e 3ztiflCHeHHA cTpyKrypHol riepe6y,aoBs
ByrIJlBHO1 IIpOMHCJIOBOCTi i IIOM'AIKieHHA ii COUiJaIhHHX HaCJW,KdB. Mu
3BepTaEMOC51 Llo MixHapoxlHoro 6aHKy 3 IIpOXaHH51M IIpO HaD;aHH5I
3af4MY Ha cTpyKrypHy niepe6yzLoBy B pO3Mipi 300 MiTnA4oHiB aonapiB
CLIA zmIA riiz;puimEi uief uiporpaM.
3 noBaroio
rpeM'ep-MiHiCTp YKpauHr                    aBIO JIa3apeHKo
lpapsO02 9/13/96 UIK 4






Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE
Letter of Coal Sector Policy
1.    Since late 1994, the Government of Ukraine has been undertaking a comprehensive stabilization
and structural reform program. This program aims to overcome the economic crisis, reduce inflation,
and restore economic growth. This will be achieved through a combination of fiscal prudence and
monetary restraint, combined with measures to promote economic efficiency. These measures are aimed
at enhancing the role of competitive markets in the Ukrainian economy by trade and price liberalization,
privatization, private sector development, and restructuring of the public sector, while improving the
effectiveness of the social safety net for the most vulnerable groups in the adjustment process.
2.    The achievement of stabilization and general structural reform will be necessary for the success
of coal sector reform. Low inflation, liberalization and an increased role for the private sector will all
be essential for the restoration of economic growth and employment creation. Overall fiscal restraint will
free up budgetary resources for more effective targeting of social protection and for financing coal sector
restructuring costs.
3.    In turn, the reform program underway in the coal sector is supportive of the objectives of the
overall stabilization and structural reform program. The coal sector reform will reduce the long-term
need for subsidies through productivity enhancement and through addressing urgent social issues. It will
also facilitate the reemployment of currently underutilized labor and capital in more productive uses
elsewhere in the economy, and will do so in a manner which minimizes the social costs of adjustment.
Implementation of this first stage of reform will make a substantial contribution towards the medium-term
goal of creating a smaller, more efficient coal sector, attractive to private capital and no longer dependent
on state support. The economically viable part of the coal industry will thereby be preserved.
4.    The main directions of the Government coal sector reform program are outlined in Decree of the
President of Ukraine of February 7, 1996, No. 116 "On Coal Industry Restructuring". The objectives
of the coal sector reform program will be pursued through market liberalization and the promotion of
competition, restructuring and privatization, a market-focused investment policy, closure of unviable
mines (including environmental mitigation), mitigation of the social costs of restructuring, and the
redirection and reduction of subsidies.
A. Market Liberalization and the Promotion of Competition
5.    The Government believes that efficiency in the coal sector can be substantially increased only
through a process of market liberalization and enhanced competition. The regional offices of the coal
trading organization, Uglesbyt have been divested into separate entities, and the remaining part of the
company (recently renamed Ukruglresource) no longer enjoys any monopoly rights in coal marketing;
all corporatized coal enterprises are free to market coal to any customer at prices which are freely
negotiated between buyer and seller.
6.    The use of accounting prices to cross-subsidize high-cost mines at the expense of low-cost mines
has been abolished, which will significantly enhance incentives for cost reductions. Similarly, the
Government is committed to maintaining protection from imports at only modest levels in order not to
undermine the drive to improve efficiency in the Ukrainian coal sector; coal import taxes will not be



Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
raised from their current level nor will quantitative restrictions be imposed on coal imports. At the same
time, the objective of penetrating export markets will be pursued by the abolition of all restrictions on
coal exports.
B. Restructuring and Privatization
7.   All 276 mines have been divided into four categories. Mines which are currently profitable have
been placed in Category 1 and will receive no subsidies. This will create the preconditions for
privatization in the medium term. Category 1 includes 76 mines. The 200 mines currently making
losses will either be closed immediately or will be subsidized on a temporary basis. These mines have
been divided into: (a) Category 2 mines which are potentially profitable and which will be allowed one
year to regain viability and graduate to Category 1 (105 mines); (b) Category 3 mines which are
scheduled for closure in the medium term unless they can undertake sufficient improvements in
profitability to demonstrate viability (75 mines); and (c) Category 4 mines which are scheduled for
immediate closure (20 mines).
8.   The Category 1 and 2 mines will be corporatized and placed under 15 state-owned holding
companies (which will also include coal washing plants and marketing enterprises and other core
activities). Category 3 mines will be supervised by newly-created divisions of the Ministry of the Coal
Industry (MCI) at the oblast level. Category 4 mines will cease production and be transferred to the
closure agency, UDKR.
9.   The allocation of the temporary production subsidies for specific Category 2 and 3 mines within
the budgetary ceiling determined for each oblast will be decided by MCI. Subsidy allocations will be
based in particular on (i) current production costs; (ii) market value of coal; and (iii) changes in geology,
mine infrastructure, and labor productivity. Mines receiving subsidies will be prohibited from investment
and recruitment (except for (a) transfers from other Category 2 and 3 mines under the same oblast-level
division of MCI and (b) faceworkers recruited by Category 2 mines), and average increases in wage rates
will not exceed the minimum level consistent with the Coal Industry Tariff Agreement.
10.   In order to minimize the need for subsidies and to enhance productivity, employment contracts
for managers of Category 2 and 3 mines will provide for performance-related remuneration. The
Government is committed to having at least 50 percent of the performance contracts signed by January
1, 1997. The incentive payments will be based on the difference between (i) actual subsidies and
budgeted subsidies; and (ii) payables at the beginning and the end of the year.
11.  As an alternative option for Category 3 mines, a mechanism has been established for leasing mines
to employees, mine management, or other private parties. The Government recognizes that employment
reductions and the settlement of wage arrears may be necessary to attract lessees. At commencement of
the lease, accumulated payables and receivables will be disposed of through a debt restructuring process
(the Government will assume the social liabilities). A leased mine would not be eligible for fiscal support
after commencement of the lease. MCI will seek technical assistance to design and implement the debt
restructuring and leasing processes.
12.  Movement between categories will be possible, but only if mines which transfer conform to the
requirements of the new category. A mine moving from Category 1 to Category 3 will thus be eligible
for subsidies but will not be allowed to recruit new workers, undertake investment, or pay salary
increases above the minimum. A mine moving from Category 2 or 3 to Category 1 will no longer be



Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
eligible for subsidies but will be allowed to invest, and will have autonomy over wage and recruitment
policy. Category 2 will cease to exist one year after the original division of mines into categories and
no movement into Category 2 will be permitted during that year; mines still in Category 2 at the end of
the year will be distributed between Category 1 and Category 3 depending on whether they are profitable
or not.
13.   In order to enhance coal sector efficiency and reduce costs, all non-core activities (machine
building, transport, construction etc.) will be divested and privatized by end-1997. Social assets of the
coal industry will be progressively transferred to local government administration or will be privatized
(see below).
C. Market-focused Investment Policy
14.   The Government wishes to promote investment in viable mines that have good geological and
economic prospects in order to increase their productivity and improve their health and safety records.
The Government's coal sector investment policy is to maximize private sector participation and minimize
budgetary outlays, in order to ensure that investment choices are based on profitability and that
Government funds are not exposed to excessive risk. However, substantial private capital inflows to the
coal sector are not expected in the near term; therefore Government investment policy focuses on
stemming the decline in productivity in profitable mines while creating conditions attractive to private
capital. Any investment support from the Government will be provided within the Government's overall
public investment program and will be in the form of loans to mines from the Government budget at the
National Bank of Ukraine discount rate. Such investment will be primarily focussed on enhancement of
capacity utilization in existing mines. Budget support will not be available for commencing new mine
construction; where construction of new mines in the Government's investment program had already
commenced by August 1, 1996 a review of those investments will be completed by end 1996. Budget
support for investment expenditures made after such review will be converted to a loan basis once the
mine is operating (on the same interest rate and repayment terms as for other mines).
D. Closure of Unviable Mines
15.  In order to reduce the heavy burden that uneconomic mines place on both viable mines and on the
Ukrainian taxpayer, the Government plans to close these mines at a minimum rate of 20 per year. Mine
closure will be managed by UDKR. An integral part of this mine closure element of the program is
implementation of a plan for mitigation of the social and environmental consequences of mine closure in
accordance with the guiding principles outlined in paragraph 17 and Section E of this Letter. Mines will
be closed only after the necessary capacity to provide social and environmental mitigation is in place.
Before a mine is closed, a closure plan, which will include appropriate social and environmental
mitigation measures to be implemented with respect to that mine, will be adopted. The liabilities and
assets of closing mines will be placed into the hands of a liquidation commission (appointed by MCI) for
disposal.
16.   The phasing of mine closures is intended to spread the social costs over time. In general, the
mines with the highest financial losses will be closed earliest. However, in certain cases those mines are
highly concentrated geographically; in such cases, sequencing of closures will be necessary on social
grounds. The Government places a very high priority on the mitigation of the social costs of mine
closure that are borne by mineworkers and their communities.



Annex I
Page 4 of 5
17.   The Government will ensure that mines are closed in an environmentally sound manner, and that
the implementation capacity of UDKR is adequately developed for that purpose. The Coal Pilot Project
currently underway for three mine closures will yield lessons for environmental management practices
as regards shaft-filling, control of emissions, fire hazards, water quality control, safety of storage sites
and abandoned buildings, erosion from tailing piles, subsidence and land reclamation. These lessons will
be applied to the sector-wide mine closure program, and the plan for closure of each mine will include
environmental analysis.
E. Mitigation of the Social Costs of Restructuring
18.   The Government has assumed the liability for the statutory minimum severance pay for layoffs
of workers in the context of either mine closure or labor force downsizing. In addition, the Government
has taken over the liability for disability payments for mines to be leased or closed. In the case of mine
closure, the Government will also take over any liability for settlement of wage arrears. These measures
will provide an immediate social safety net for mineworkers leaving the industry. The cost of free coal
distribution to coal industry pensioners will also be assumed by the Government.
19.   In addition to the Government's takeover of these social liabilities, special social mitigation
programs funded by the Government budget are being established in all coal mining oblasts to enhance
the social safety net and promote employment creation for ex-mineworkers and for their communities.
As these programs evolve, they will draw in particular on the experience gained in Donetsk oblast under
the Coal Pilot Project, which includes labor-intensive public works, job search and pre-redundancy
counseling, reemployment support, microcredit for small businesses, and free coal for ex-mineworkers.
20.    Mines currently own substantial social assets (principally in the form of housing and kindergartens
but also including health and recreational facilities). They will be fully transferred to municipal
administration or be privatized by mid-1998. In cases where cost recovery for services transferred to the
municipalities is less than 100 percent, the municipalities will receive budgetary transfers to cover the
shortfall until full cost recovery is reached. In the case of mine housing transferred to municipalities, a
central government budget allocation will be provided in view of the extreme dilapidation of much of this
housing.
21.   Mechanisms for social impact monitoring and extensive public participation are being reinforced
to ensure that consultation with affected parties is maximized and that social protection programs are
indeed reaching the intended beneficiaries. The social impact indicators which are being monitored
include (i) receipt of severance pay, back wages, disability payments, unemployment benefits, pensions,
and free coal by beneficiaries; (ii) availability of training, job search and pre-redundancy counselling, and
employment services; (iii) availability of an adequate level of health and education services, housing
maintenance, heating and utilities; (iv) individual worker notification of mine closure and employment
status, availability of public information on sector restructuring and social protection; (v) effectiveness
of public works, reemployment support, and microcredit programs; (vi) adequacy of UDKR's
implementation capacity.
F. Redirection and Reduction of Subsidies
22.  The system of cross-subsidies which reallocated revenues from low-cost mines to subsidize high-
cost mines has been abolished; this abolition is intended to promote productivity increases in both low-



Annex 1
PageS5of 5
cost and high-cost mines. Some of the former recipients of the cross-subsidies, namely the Category 2
and 3 mines, will now need to receive production subsidies from the Government budget, pending closure
or the attainment of profitability (and consequent graduation to Category 1). However, it is essential
to both fiscal stability and to the enhancement of efficiency in the coal sector that these subsidies are
phased out rapidly; this will occur through cost-cutting measures including mine closure, employment
reduction, and efficiency improvements induced by the performance contract mechanism. The budget
will also temporarily fund a modest level of investment (on a loan basis) in Category 1 mines primarily
to enhance capacity utilization.
23.  There will also be substantial restructuring costs to be borne by the budget over the medium term.
These will include: (i) special social mitigation programs; (ii) physical cost of mine closure (including
environmental mitigation); (iii) settlement of social liabilities (severance pay, disability payments, free
coal and wage arrears for closing mines and mines to be leased, and free coal distributions to coal
industry pensioners); and (iv) compensation to municipalities for social asset transfer.
24.   In order to reinforce financial discipline, the Government will take measures to ensure that there
is no increase in real terms in the total payables and receivables of mines in categories 1, 2 and 3 from
the levels prevailing for those mines at August 1, 1996. This will be achieved through a combination
of bankruptcy proceedings, the performance contract mechanism and improved financial discipline
amongst coal industry customers and suppliers (in particular the power sector).



UKRAINE COAL SECAL POLICY MATRIX
ISSUE                                 MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                                     MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BEFORE SECOND
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  T R A N C H E
Macroeconomic                     Satisfactory implementation of the stabilization program.              Continued implementation of the stabilization program.
Stabilization
Market Liberalization             Coal trading demonopolized                                             Abolition of all restrictions on coal exports (except for
prevention of dumping).
Cross-subsidies eliminated
Granting all corporatized coal mines special exporter status.
Abolition of price control (except for category 3 mines which will be
required to declare their prices to the Ministry of Economy).
Restructuring and                 Division of all mines into four categories:                            Signature of performance contracts for (based on a model
Privatization                                                                                            satisfactory to the Bank) all category 2 and 3 mines (other than
1.      profitable mines;                                     those which are leased).
2.      potentially profitable mines which are                Satisfactory progress on corporatization/privatization of non-
allowed one year to demonstrate their                 core activities.
viability;
3.      non-viable mines for which closure
plans are under preparation and which
will be eventually transferred to
UDKR;
4.      non-viable mines for immediate
transfer to UDKR.



UKRAINE COAL SECAL POLICY MATRIX
Establishment of a subsidy allocation mechanism that restricts subsidies to
those mines in categories 2 and 3 that satisfy the following criteria:
(a)     prohibition of recruitment (except from other category 2
or 3 mines in the same oblast and recruitment of
faceworkers by Category 2 mincs will not be restricted);
(b)     limitation of average increases in wage rates to the
increase in the minimum wage rate specified in the Coal
Industry Tariff Agreement;
(c)     prohibition of budget support for investment.
Initiation by Ministerial Order of performance contract system for category 2
and 3 mines and of leasing arrangements for category 3 mines.
Corporatization of all mines in categories I and 2, and establishment of 15
holding companies to own those mines.
Placing all category 3 mines under direct supervision of the Ministry of the
Coal Industry.
Closure of Unviable Mines        Coal production ceased in 24 mines and 20 of those mines were transferred    See "Mitigation of Social and Environmental Costs" below.
to UDKR.
Agreement with the Bank on mine closure procedures (including public
announcement of mine closure).
See "Mitigation of Social and Environmental Costs" below.



UKRAINE COAL SECAL POLICY MATRIX
Investment in Viable Mines        Establishment by Ministerial Order of a mechanism that provides budget  Any investment support from the budget to have been consistent
support for investment only under the following conditions:            with the Ministerial Order establishing the conditions for such
support (namely only Category I mines, loans at positive real
(a)     only Category I mines will be eligible for budgetary           interest rates, minimum 15 percent rate of return, investment to
support for investment;                                        be within PIP, at least 20 percent of investment costs to be
from non-budgetary sources, and no investment in new mines).
(b)     all support to be in the form of loans at the NBU discount
rate;
(c)     all investments to have a minimum of 15 percent
expected internal rate of return, confirmed by
independent expert review, and to be accepted within the
Government's public investment program;
(d)     at least 20 percent of investment cost to be funded from
non-budgetary sources;
(e)     no investment in new mines.
Mitigation of Social and          Coal Pilot Project approved by Board.                                   Satisfactory progress in implementing social and environmental
Environmental Costs                                                                                       mitigation measures related to the 40 or more mines which will
Liability for disability payments in closing mines transferred to Social  have ceased production and have been transferred to UDKR.
Insurance Fund.                                                        This will require (a) implementation in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank of an action plan for social and environmental
Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the closure plans, including  mitigation; (b) receipt of statutory cash benefits and free coal
commencement of the social and environmental mitigation measures, with  distribution by ex-mineworkers; (c) continued access to social
respect to 20 mines which have ceased production and have been transferred   assets by laid-off mineworkers; and (d) satisfactory progress on
to UDKR;                                                                physical closure of those mines.
Government take over of severance pay liability from mines undergoing
labor restructuring.                                                    Divestiture of the social assets of 100 mines and receipt by
municipalities of funds budgeted for social asset transfer
Declaration of effectiveness of the Coal Pilot Project, and budgetary
transfers to UDKR and the municipalities necessary for Coal Pilot Project
functioning have been made.
Satisfactory performance under the Coal Pilot Project with respect to the
payment of statutory cash benefits and free coal distribution to ex-
mineworkers and their families.
Putting in place monitoring mechanisms to assess social mitigation and social
asset transfer.



UKRAINE COAL SECAL POLICY MATRIX
Redirection and Reduction of     Agreement between the Govemment and the Bank on the Government        Govemment expenditures in the coal sector to have been
Subsidies                        budget for the coal sector for 1997, including allocations for production  consistent with the agreed 1997 budget (both in aggregate and
subsidies, investment loans, physical costs of mine closure (including  in composition).
environmental mitigation), settlement of social liabilities, special social
mitigation programs, and funding of social asset divestiture.        Payables of mines in Categories 1, 2 and 3 not to exceed the
level prevailing for those mines at August 1, 1996.



Annex2
Page 1 of 2
Investments for Coal Production
The Government has decided to allocate in the budget a credit program to finance investments for
coal production in mines which do not receive production subsidies. The total amount allocated for
such credits will be determined as follows. From the total budget support to the coal sector, which is
limited. by macro-economic considerations, the following allocations to the coal sector will be
deducted with priority: (a) funds for closing depleted and uneconomic mines, including their social
and environmental mitigation; (b) payment of social liabilities and operation of social assets; and (c)
temporary operating subsidies for Category 2 mines. The remainder of the total budget allocation to
the coal sector is available for state credit financing of investments in mines which do not receive
production subsidies if there are sufficient economically justified projects.
The Credit Program
The objectives of the program are to increase efficiency and reliability and to decrease costs of coal
production. The program has the following main characteristics:
The program will finance the improvement of utilization of existing production capacity and
safety;
No financing will be made available under the program for the construction of new mines;'
Only mines which do not receive production subsidies will be eligible for credits under the
program.
Credit Terms
A credit to an eligible mine for an approved investment proposal would be made available under the
following terms:
The maximum credit amount will not exceed 80 percent of the costs of the investment project.
The remainder of the project costs shall be financed from the mine's own funds, private
investors, local commercial banks, foreign lending institutions etc. without Ukrainian
Government financing or guarantees. Funds from the Credit Program will be only disbursed
after other funds to finance the project have been secured;
Starting with the first disbursement, the mine shall pay interest, calculated monthly at the
National Bank of Ukraine interest rate;
The mine shall repay the credit, after a three-year grace period, in equal semi-annual rates
over a period not to exceed 10 years;
1      Where construction of new mines in the Government's investment program had already commenced by
August 1, 1996 a review of those investments will be completed by end 1996 using the rate of return criterion
described below. Budget support for investment expenditures made after such review will be converted to a
loan basis once the mine is operating (on the interest rate and repayment terms below).



Annex2
1!3= 2 of 2
If the mine is part of a parent organization (association, holding company, mining company),
then such organization shall guarantee the payment of interest and principal;
In the event of a default of a mine or parent organization on servicing the debt, all
disbursements from the Credit Program to such mine or organization will be suspended.
Credit Application and Approval
Project proposals and credit applications must be submitted by interested mines to the Ministry of
Coal Industry. The following criteria will be applied for selecting proposals:
The internal rate of return of the project. The minimum qualifying return shall be not less
than 15 percent. In selecting projects, priority will be given to the highest internal rate of
return;
The quality of the mine's business plan to be submitted with the project proposal. The
business plan must contain, inter alia, marketing arrangements for the mine's total coal output
and managerial/organizational changes to improve the mine's financial results;
The mine's financial and operational track record;
The Ministry of Coal Industry will pre-select submitted project proposals on the basis of these
criteria. The following procedures will be followed to obtain credit approval for a pre-selected
proposal:
Independent experts, including banks and other organizations with lending experience in the
coal industry, will appraise the proposal. The independent experts may request clarifications
and recommend modifications;
Each proposal endorsed by the independent experts and MCI will be submitted for approval to
the Ministries of Economy and Finance;
The Ministries will assess: (a) the validity of the individual project justification; and (b) the
consistency of the project with the Government's overall public investment program;
Detailed procedures regarding credit application, processing and approval, as well as
monitoring and reporting requirements, will be laid down in a manual prepared by MCI and
approved by the Ministries of Economy and Finance.



Annex 3
Pare 1 of S
Technical Note on Budgetary Projections
This note has been written as part of the preparation of the Ukraine Coal Sector Adjustment Loan
(Coal SECAL). It is intended to outline projections of budgetary support for the coal sector through the
year 2004 and the key assumptions behind those projections. The timing of measures assumed in these
projections is based on Decree 116/96 outlining the main directions of the Govermnent's sector reform
program and on the SECAL conditionality.
Table 1: The "With-reform" Scenario
...i.E----  E-.E--   : -:-:-L    -  :y :i- :.: h.-...:--. ...... ....  ....,#
1YM-                                                     4                     '8.    : ,         0,        : . . . 0--1,-00-- i. . ..
Production Subsidy'                          638        468        270        214      89          0          0       0         0
Net Investment Loans                          31         32        107        106     III         -7        -74      -95      -95
Special Social                                 10        37         49         51      85         61          7       7         7
Mitigation Progranms                              _        
Physical Cost of Mine                         27        100         72         83      73         35          0       0         0
Closure
Serance Pay                                     7        16         14         17      34          3          3       3         3
Wage Arrears for Closing & Leaed Mines         12        26         12          0       0          0          0       0         0
Disability Payments for Mines to be Closed     15        42         50         68      91        107        114      121      127
or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry PenBioners          0        32         33         33      34         35         36      37        38
Social AsetTransfer                           75         42         13          0       0          0          0       0         0
TOTAL                                        815        794        620       572      517        233         86      73        80
E.   Y w ,-;  ..' ...'..'.....  .-..'t,: -    -S ,- i, -,0X  t-iA
Production Subsidy                            118        89         51         41      17          0          0       0         0
Net Investment Loans                           6          6         20         20      21         -1        -14      -18       -18
Special Social Mitigation Progranms            2          7          9         10      16         12          1        1         1
Physical Cost of Mine Closure                  5         19         14 T       16      14          7          0       0         0 1
Severance Pay                                   1         3          3          3       7          1          1        1         1|
Wage Arears for Closing &                       2         5          2          0       0          0          0       0         0
Leased Mines
Disability Payments for Mines to be Closed     3          8         10         13      17         20         22      23        24
or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry Pensioners         0          6          6          6       6          7          7       7         7
Social AwetTransfer                           14          8          21         0       0          0          0       0         0
TOTAL                                        151        151        118        109      98         44         16      14        1S
I/     The 1996 production subsidy figure represents the amount budgeted. It is projected to fall short of the
amount actually needed in the with-reform scenario by US$ 213 million or Krb. 39 trillion (0.5 percent of
GDP), which will lead to a corresponding increase in the net payables position of the coal industry.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
Microeconomic Assumptions
1.         Production subsidy. The production subsidy projection is based on detailed financial analysis of the =c^a
industry using mine-by-mine data. The mines are divided into four categories. Mines which are profitable have been
placed in Category 1 and will receive no subsidies. Category 1 includes 76 mines. Mines currently making losses will
either be closed immediately or will be subsidized on a temporary basis. These mines have been divided into: (a)
Category 2 mines which have the lowest losses and which will be allowed one year to undertake sufficient improvements
to graduate to Category 1 (105 mines). It is estimated that Category 2 mines will be redistributed equally between
Categories I and 3 at the end of the year; (b) Category 3 mines which are scheduled for closure at the rate of 17-26 mines
per year unless they can undertake sufficient improvements in profitability to demonstrate viability (75 mines); and (c)
Category 4 mines which are scheduled for immediate closure ( 20 mines).
2.         More specifically, real wages are assumed to increase by 4 percent per annum in Category 1 mines, and
to remain constant for other categories. Non-labor input costs are assumed to be 70 percent fixed and 30 percent variable.
Since variable costs represent mainly internationally traded goods (such as electricity), this part of the non-labor input
costs is assumed to increase by only half of the consumer price index increase in Ukraine in view of the projected real
appreciation of the exchange rate (see macroeconomic assumptions table). Other non labor input prices are assumed to
increase at the same rate as the consumer price index. In 1997, it is assumed that there will be a one-time decrease of
about 21 percent in non-labor input costs in connection with the separation of non-core activities and the merger of
production associations into a reduced number of holding companies. Assumptions for output, prices, and employment
reductions are given below.
1996   11997   1998    1999   2000   2001   2002   2003    2004
output (million tonnes)    75      80      82      79      78      80      83      88      92
price per tonne            26      27      28      28      29      30      31      31      32
employment reduction (%)    15     17      13      14      26       6       6       6       6
3.         Net investment loans. Only Category 1 mines will be eligible for loans from the budget for investment
expenditures which enhance capacity utilization subject to certain criteria (primarily a minimum internal rate of return
of 15 percent). Because of the large investment backlog, it is assumed that all Category 1 mines will apply for investment
loans in 1996 and 1997, for an average credit amount of US$ 6.5 million per mine (in line with the debt servicing
capability of the mines and with MCI's estimates of investment needs). It is further assumed that the 53 mines which
graduate from Category 2 to Category 1, and Category 1 mines which didn't receive loans in 1996 or 1997 will apply
for loans from 1998 to 2000 (also for an average credit amount of US$ 6.5 million). It is assumed that the approval rate
will increase over time (from 22 percent in 1996-1997 to 61 percent in 1998-2000). Investment lending commitments from
the budget cease in 2000. Loans will finance a maximum of 80 percent of investment costs in each case. All credits are
assumed to be disbursed during a three-year grace period and repaid over the following ten years (with a 10 percent
default rate). The interest rate is assumed to be 7 percent per annum on the dollar value of the credit.
4.         Special social mitigation programs. Workers leaving the mines will be eligible for special social mitigation
programs. In the context of the Coal Pilot Project such programs have been costed and are being tested. It is assumed
for budgetary purposes that the cost per worker of the pilot programs can be generalized for all workers leaving the mines
involuntarily. This represents US$ 1200 per worker disbursed over a two-year period. It is assumed that involuntary
departures in 1996 begin to benefit from the special social mitigation programs in the last quarter of 1996. Projections
of involuntary departures (from closing and downsizing mines) are given below.



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
1"        19C    l97  MS99    1 l99     20002      2001  1-2002 j2003     2004
|involuntary   17279   35861   29043   31367    59232        3139    2948    2770    260
|departure
5.          Physical cost of mine closure. It is assumed that mines will be closed at a rate of 17-26 per year. Th
cost of physical closure (i.e. including environmental protection costs but excluding social mitigation costs) per mine i
assumed to be US$ 3.0 million disbursed over 1.5 years (of which about US$ 400,000 are for environmental mitigation)
Costs for pumping additional water from mines in the vicinity of closing mines are assumed to be borne by the operatin,
budget of the affected mines (this is estimated at US$ 1.4 million per mine closure) rather than being included in th
closure costs.
6.          Severance pay. It is assumed that all workers leaving the coal industry involuntarily will have severanc
pay funded from the budget according to their legal entitlement (namely three months wages - currently about US$ 131
per month).
7.          Wage arrears for closing and leased mines. It is assumed that the budget will pay wage arrears for al
workers who are dismissed as a result of mine closures. It is also assumed that the budget will take over th
responsibility for wage arrears in the case of mines to be leased, in order to make the mine sufficiently attractive fo
lessees. It is further assumed that ten mines will be leased in 1997 and five per year thereafter through 2000.
8.         Disability payments. It is assumed that the budget will take over the responsibility for disability payment
(as well as free coal to disabled ex-mineworkers) in the cases of mines to be closed or leased.
9.          Free coal for coal industry pensioners. The budget is to take over the cost of distributing coal free o
charge to pensioners (from the coal mines) who do not have access to district heating. On average, this entitlement i:
3.4 tons per person per year (costed at US$ 35 per ton in 1996 prices) for 260,000 retired pensioners.
10.        Social asset transfer. Social assets are to be fully transferred to municipalities by mid 1998. Municipalitie4
will receive exceptional central budget transfers in 1996 (the necessary amount has already been allocated), 1997 and thi
first half of 1998 targeted to cover (i) operating losses until such time as 100 percent cost recovery is achieved (assume(
to be end-1996 for housing and beyond 1998 for kindergartens); (ii) deferred maintenance for housing equivalent to 3(
percent of operating costs; and (iii) the cost of capital repairs. Beyond mid 1998 municipalities will fund theii
expenditures on these social assets out of general revenue (or will privatize the assets).
2/   The jump in involuntary departures in 2000 reflects the fact that the last subsidized mines will close in
2001; therefore the policy of allowing transfers from closing mines to other subsidized mines (which are not to
be closed for some time) will cease in 2000.



Annex 3
Page 4 of5
Macroeconomic Assumptions
195      196      1997      19_     1_9      2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
inflation (c.p.i.)                       379       48       20        12       10        9       8       7        6       5
economy-wide real wage (index)           100      107       114      123      131      140     150     160      172     184
real exchange rate (% change: + means
appreciation)                             40        5        17        9        7       6        5       4       3        2
Nominal exchange rate (Kbv.
thousand\US $)                           147      185       190      190      190      190     190     190      190     190
total budget expenditures (Kbv.
trillions)                              2451     3451     4232      4865     5572    6244    6982    7747    8426    9144
nominal GDP (Kbv. quadrillions)
5.1      7.5      9.4      11.4     13.4    15.5    17.7    19.9    22.1    24.4
The "Without-reform" Scenario
11.   The without-reform  scenario differs from the with-reform scenario in the following respects:
(i)    coal production declines by 14 percent over the period 1996-2004;
(ii)   real wages increase at 4 percent per annum in all categories;
(iii)  employment decreases by 10 percent per annum;
(iv)   category 2 mines receive subsidies indefinitely;
(v)   no mines are closed or leased;
(vi)   neither non-core activities nor social assets are divested;
(vii)  associations are not transformed into holding companies;
(viii) there is no Government budget responsibility for special social mitigation programs, physical costs of mine
closure, severance pay, wage arrears, disability pay, free coal, or social asset transfer;
(ix)   investment support from the budget is on a grant basis.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
The without reform projections are given below:
Table 2: The "Without-reform" Scenario
_____    _____    _____         IJUSt  million
Y ear                                      t9600000000 tl00000000009700000000:0000000-,40  9Rfi '9 'tS'000000   F:00OIE;it  '02t"0:  '03' -  '04'.t..t.  jt   004   0XiA
Production Subsidy                        784      1130        1319       1487        1650         1792      1918      2109       2210
InvestmentGrant                           31         32        120        137          150           67        0          0          0
Special Social
Mitigation Programs                        0          0          0          0            0            0        0          0          0
Physical Cost of Mine
Closure                                    0         0           0         0            0            0        0          0          0
Severance Pay                               0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0          0
Wage Arrears for Closing & Leased
Mines                                       0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0          0
Disability Payments for Mines to be         0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0          0
Closed or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry
Pensioners                                  0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0          0
Social Asset Transfer                       0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0          0
TOTAL3                                    815      1162        1439       1624        1800         1859      1918      2109       2210
Year                                     '96        '9          9         9            0            0        0          0         04
Production Subsidy                        145       215         251       283          313          341       364       401       420
Investment Grant                            6         6          23         26          29           13         0         0         0
Special Social Mitigation Programs          0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
Physical Cost of Mine Closure               0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
Severance Pay                               0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
Wage Arrears for Closing & Leased           0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
Mines
Disability Payments for Mines to be         0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
Closed or Leased
Free Coal for Coal Industry                 0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
Pensioners
Social Asset Transfer                       0         0           0          0           0            0         0         0         0
TOTAL3                                    151       221         274       309          342          354      364        401       420
3/       The 1996 total represents the amount budgeted. It is projected to fall short of the amount actually
needed to fund the production subsidy in the without-reform scenario by US$ 179 million or Krb. 33 trillion,
which will lead to a corresponding increase in the net payables position of the coal industry.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Production Subsidies and Performance Contracts
1.    Mines in Category 2 and 3 will be eligible for production subsidies. As a condition of
providing the subsidy, the mines will be prohibited from investment' and recruitment2, and average
increases in wage rates in these mines will not exceed the minimum level consistent with the Coal
Industry Tariff Agreement. Within the budgetary ceiling, (determined for each oblast in accordance
with the overall ceiling for production subsidies agreed between MCI and the Ministry of Finance) the
allocation of subsidies to each mine will be decided by the Ministry of the Coal Industry (MCI), after
submissions of proposals from the oblast-level divisions of MCI. The size of the proposed subsidy
for each mine would depend on (i) expected annual operating cost as a function of current costs and
changes in input prices, geological conditions, labor productivity, etc.; and (ii) expected annual
revenue as a function of coal production and the market value of coal.
2.    The proposed system of performance contracts between MCI and mine directors is not without
precedent. All general directors of production associations and directors of mines are employed under
contracts with MCI. These employment contracts include many elements of a typical performance
contract, e.g., salary bonuses are tied to the achievement of certain performance indicators such as
production targets (tons and quality), the reduction of accidents, etc. 'The main differences between
the old and the proposed new system would be the following:
(i)   All mine managers receiving production subsidies would have a performance contract
directly with MCI3, as the production associations would disappear, and mines eligible
for production subsidies would be placed under newly-created oblast-level administrative
divisions of MCI.
(iii)  The performance contracts would focus on financial indicators rather than physical ones.
Specifically, the performance of each mine director would be judged against his/her
ability to ensure that the mine operates within the agreed financial parameters, i.e., all
losses should be covered by the production subsidy without an increase in the stock of
payables. Salary bonuses/penalties would be tied to differences between the planned and
the actually received subsidy adjusted for changes in the stock of payables between the
beginning and the end of the year. The details of the bonuses/penalties and the
provisions for auditing are to be elaborated with technical assistance financed by the UK
Know-How Fund.
1/   Normal mine development work to prepare replacement faces, the replacement of parts and sub-
assemblies of equipment essential for production, works required to assure the health and safety of
mineworkers, and the acquisition of sufficient stock of parts and materials to ensure reliable and safe
production in the short run will be permitted.
2/   Transfer of personnel from other Category 2 and 3 mines under the same oblast-level division of the
Ministry of Coal Industry will be permitted as will recruitment of faceworkers by Category 2 mines.
3/   For Category 2 mines, this rule would be slightly modified in the first year (after the first year,
Category 2 mines would be transferred to Category I or 3). These mines would belong to 15 holding
companies (initially 100 percent state owned), therefore the performance contract would involve three
parties: MCI, the general director of the holding company, and the mine director.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
Social Impact Monitoring
1.   Social mitigation for sector restructuring on a scale as vast as coal sector restructuring in
Ukraine is uncharted territory. Experience does not provide tried and true social mitigation programs
that may be relied upon to produce predictable results. The Government of Ukraine is experimenting
with a variety of approaches, and it is unclear which ones will prove effective and efficient and which
ones will not. Because the Government is experimenting in uncharted territory, with outcomes
unpredictable, it is essential to monitor carefully how well various elements of social mitigation work.
During the SECAL-supported coal sector restructuring program, the World Bank is supporting social
mitigation monitoring in two stages.
2.   In the first stage, three different but complementary methodologies will be used to monitor
social mitigation in the three pilot mining communities covered by the Bank-supported Coal Pilot
Project and two "control" communities, one where the mine is closing and one where the mine is not
expected to close. The methodologies include:
Household surveys. Household surveys of the three communities in the Pilot Project plus two other
communities in the first round were undertaken in September 1996. Subsequent surveys will follow
at intervals of between 3 and 6 months. Approximately 300 households will be sampled in each
community. The surveys will focus on social conditions generally, household economic
circumstances, social services, social benefits, wages and employment. This work is being
undertaken by the Eastern Ukrainian Foundation for Social Monitoring, based in Kharkiv.
Ethnographic studies. A team of anthropologists from Kharkiv State University will conduct a
longitudinal study of workers (and their families) who are laid off in each of the Coal Pilot Project
communities and two control communities. The study will be based on in-depth qualitative
interviews, taken at 3 month intervals starting in September 1996. The study will focus on
information flows, social mitigation measures, and coping strategies.
Data collection. assessment. Monthly data will be collected from local labor offices, social protection
offices, pension offices, municipal public works offices, and health and educational facilities in the
three Coal Pilot Project communities and two control communities, and from UDKR, in order to
monitor the quality of the services and benefits these entities are supposed to provide. The data
collected from these sources will be confirmed in short interviews with randomly selected
beneficiaries and program administrators. A set of indicators has been developed that closely reflects
planned project interventions. Indicator data will be channeled each month to project managers for
rapid project feedback. The results of this monitoring will be cross-correlated with the results of the
household surveys and anthropological studies in order to identify the strengths and weaknesses of the
whole social mitigation effort. In the early stages of project implementation, both UDKR and
independent researchers will undertake this monitoring activity. Depending on the outcome, UDKR
may succeed in building its own institutional capacity to take over the monitoring task in the future.
3.     These three complementary approaches will make it possible to draw conclusions about how
welt mine workers who lose their jobs due to sector restructuring (and their families) are being served
by the statutory elements of the social mitigation package, by social services transferred from mines
to municipalities, and by the employment creation programs financed by the Coal Pilot Project.
4.     In the second stage (during the first quarter of 1997), based on the experience with
monitoring social mitigation measures in the three pilot mining communities and two control



Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
communities, all or some of the approaches described in paragraph 2 above will be expanded sector-
wide. At the time release of the second tranche of the SECAL is considered, information about social
mitigation in the whole sector should be available.



UKRAINE                                          SCHEDULE B
COAL SECAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
UKRAINE
Status Of Bank Group Operations In UKRAINE
PFDBR25 - Summary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 10/31/96 - MIS data as of 11/13/96)
By Country
Country:    UKRAINE
Amount in USS miLlion
(less cancellations)
Loan or        Fiscal                                                                                             Undis-  Closing
Credit No.       Year   Borrower                             Purpose                        Bank           IDA     bursed   Date
Loans
1 Loans(s) closed                                                                         500.00
L36140-UA       1993    UKRAINE                              INSTITUTION BUILDING          27.00                    22.18  12/31/97(R)
L38650-UA       1995    UKRAINE                              HYDROPOWER REHAB.            114.00                   112.31  12/31/00
L38910-UA       1995    UKRAINE                              AGRIC. SEED DEVELOPM          32.00                    32.00  09/30/00
**  L39850-UA        1996    UKRAINE                             HOUSING                       17.00                     17.00  06/30/99
L40160-UA       1996    UKRAINE                              COAL PILOT                    15.81                    15.56  12/31/99
L40570-UA(S)   1996    UKRAINE                               ENTER. DEV. ADJUST.         310.00                    209.80  12/31/99
**  L40970-UA        1997    UKRAINE                             SOCIAL PROTECT. SUPP           2.60                      2.60  06/30/98
**  L40980-UA        1997    UKRAINE                             ELECTRICITY MARKET           245.40                    245.40  12/31/99
**  L40981-UA        1997    UKRAINE                             ELECTRICITY MARKET            71.60                     71.60  12/31/99
**  L41030-UA(S)   1997    UKRAINE                               AGRICULTURE SECAL            300.00                    300.00  12/31/97
TOTAL number Loans =   10                                                                 1,135.41                 1,028.45
TOTAL***                                                               1,635.41
of which repaid
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                               1,635.41
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                               1,028.45
Notes:
*   Not yet effective
** Not yet signed
*** Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SAL/SECAL DRL's and RIL's Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value, all others are market value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Budget file.



UKRAINE                                            SCHEDULE C
Page I of 2
COAL SECAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Ukraine at a glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Ukraine     Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                        51.6      488    1,154
GNP per capita 1995 (USP,l '                         1,630     2,240    1,700                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)                               85.0    1,093    1.962
Average annual growth, 1990-9S                                                                     T
Population (.) -0.1                                              0.4      1.4    I GNP             A
Labor force (%)                                       -0.1       06       1.8      per                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty headcount index (% of population)               32                                       V
Urban population (% of total population)t              70        66       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69       68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live brthsa)                15       23       36                Access to sae water
Child malnutrition (% ofchildrer under 5)
Access to safe water (% of populatIon)                  97:               78
Illiteracy (% of population age *5+;                     2
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age populaion)     87       97       104                Ukraine
Mtale              .        -.   -:                 - 87       97      105             -   Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                87       97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986     1994     1995   -
Economic ratios'
GDP (bilions 11S$)      -.                                      99.6    86.2
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                         27.3       8.8      8.9
Exports of goods and non-factor serviceslGDP                    64.5     45.6              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            28.4       3.0      5.6
Gross national savings/GDP ..                                    2.7      4.7
Current account balance/GOP  ...                         .  -6.1         -4.2
Interest payments/GDP                          ..       ..       0.1      0.6     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..      ..       6.5      9 8
Total debt service/exports                                       2.1      6.1
Present value of debt/GDP                      5.0
Plresent value of debtlexports                  . -             34.8                           Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-95    1994      1998  1996-04
(average annuat growth)                                                                     Ukraine
GOP                                  3,5     -66     -23.5    -118        5 -- S.
GNP per capita                       3.1:    -6.8    -21.6:    -13.7     -03                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and nfa              ..       ..   -11.0        6.7      8.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985     1994     1 996
(% of GOP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and investment (%1
Agriculture                                    ..    19.3       17.4     17.8     so
Industry                                       ..    45.6       45.4     42.3      30/
Manufacturing                                 ..    38.0      40.5     38 7
Services                                        ..    35.2      37.2     39.9    -30
Private consumption                            ..    53.7       77.2     77.2    280
General government consumption                 ..    17.9       19.8     17.2                     G0    --GDP
Imports of goods and non-factor services       ..       ..      70.3     48.9
197S-84  198S-9S     1994     1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports ()
Agriculture                                    ..    -3.6    -22.0       -9.0     10
Industry                                       ..    -8.9    -29.9    -17.0        s 
Manufacturing                                ..       2.2    -23.9    -15.0
Services                                        ..    -6.0    -33.8      -9.7      ol
-   e 90 i9  92   93   9t4 
Private consumption                            ..    -2.7    -23.1    -17.8                                       Of
General government consumption                 ..    -9.7    -23.1    -28.6    .10
Gross domestic investment                      ..   -18.6    -15.5       45.0    -15
Imports of goods and non-factor services       ..       ..      -7.2     -2.3                   Ext,_
Gross national product                        3.5     -6.6    -23.5    -12.7                  Exports   - -psrts
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



SCHEDULzE C
PaLTe 2 of 2
Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994      1995
Domesic prices                                                                        Infation (%)
(% change)                                                                           5,000 -
Consumer prices                                                  891.1    376.0
Implicit GOP deflator                          -0.5     -1.3     903.1    427.4      2.500
Govemment finance
(% ot GOP)                                                                                _ Io_                 _       _
Current revenue                                                   45.3      38.6             9s   91   92   93   94   9S
Current budget balance                                             -4.6     -0 7                     GOPdef   C     CI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -8.2     -4.7               -
TRADE
1975     1 985     1994     1996 
(millions USS)                                1                                       Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                             12,111    13,647    |20000
Commodity 1                                                    3,980    4,542            I
Commodity 2                                                      496      567      1's0 T..
Manufactures                                                   2,800    3,000 _
Total imports (cif)                                             14,471   15,945      10.000 -              1 1 111
Food                                                    ..       676      700
Fuel and energy                                                6,305    6,753       ;000
Capital goods                                                   2,978    3.815           _ 0 i         ,' __   . . _    . . t  L
Export price index (1994-100)                                      100      11as#,  90  91  92  93  9.  95
mporltpriceindex (1994-100)                                        100      115                   O8Eports    mimpoIrs
Terms of trade (1994.100)                        ,.                100       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994     1996
(millions US$)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and non-factor services                        14,713   16,408      o      i                 _
Imports of goods and non-factor services                        16,044   17,615        1    90o  91    2   93  j 94S 95I
Resource balance                                                -1,331   -1.207      .t
Net factor income                                                  -74     .507      -2                            I
Net current transfers                                                9      200     t3 - 
Current account balance,                                                             4T
before official transfers                                     -1,396   -1,514      -t 
J
Financing items (net)                                            t 301      487      *5 T
Changes in net reserves                                             95    1,027 e    -7 !
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)                                646    1,129
Conversion rate (ocaW/S$)                                    .1 E+05  1 .7E+05
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1994      1995 
(millions VSS)                                                                       Composition of total debt 1995 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                             5,438    8,465
IBRD                                                             102      491                      G    A
IDA                                                                0        0                     255  491
Total debt service                                                 300      918
IBRO                                           .         ..        0        8           234
IDA                                                                0        0               (        '/       \
Composition of net resource flows                                                                        r         128
Official grants                                                  216      240
Official creditors                                                98      400
Private creditors                                               208       -20
Foreign direct investment                                       250       300                             E
Portfolio equity                                                   0        0                           3702
World Bank program
Commitments                                                     500       146      A - I8RD                     E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                                    102      401      9 - IDA    D - Other muliblateral  F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                                               0        0      C -IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                                        102      401
Interest payments                                                  0        8
Net transfers                                                    102      393
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                      8/20/96
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.






I



IBRD 27634
20                           25 -                            I;                             5                            43
- -         t                BELARUS       
j r{         ___''____________                      ..iRUSSIAN FEDERATION
o    'N
POLAND         f.'          's'     
HUNGARY  -' \  
COAL INDUSTRY RESTRUCTURING          1     %)                            M>'tco,0VS-0                    .S
DOMESTIC ENERGY RESOURCES AND                          -4                   *-r             )'
MAIN PRODUCLION  OTISES 
0                                          K,~~  0Od.
s    tiAJ                                   9 BiGA5MGOG/;                                          f             RUSSIA N
SLOVAK~~~                                                                                             ZO
REPUBLIC ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~EL                                                                EDRTO
- N~~)CME~5   RMNDES
<3COAL INUSRY' _5 RESTUtDUR ING\ ~' 5
D   WOYMT    /ENERG YRESOURCS (A
_._IN PRDCTO                                 ,"-"'E5
Odo   50  10  150\
.   ~ ~     ~      /N~~~._,     I                 9 ~~~~~LAoCK!  S EA                   -I     I                \
_________ oA  -i                                                                           5           5
COALWS"ARW ~ ~  ~     LGRI                                                          o       50     00E1D









IMAGING
Repor-t No: P-   969 UA
Type: PR



