FILE  COPY                  R ffTR I1CTE D
Report No. DB-67
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROPOSAL FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT DU DEVELOPPEMENT (SOCOFIDE)
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
April 23, 1970
Development Finance Companies Department



Currency Equivalents
1 Zaire (Z)    a       US $ 2
Z 1 million    a       US $ 2 million
Us$1           a       zO.5O
US $ 1 million -       Z 500,000



PROPOSAL FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEM1ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT (SOCOFIDE)
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
Table of Contents
Paragraph
I.  Economic Background                                             1- 4
II. Approach to Bank Group                                           5- 6
III.  The Proposal                                                     7-22
Establishment                                                7
Legal Basis                                                  8
Object                                                       9
Types of Financing                                          10
Scope of Operations                                         11
Capital and Resources                                       12
Board of Directors and Executive Comittee                  13-17
Chief Executive Officer                                     18
Staff                                                       19
Investment and Operational Policies                         20
Particular Privileges                                      21-22
IV. SOCOFIDE's Prospects                                            23-28
Business and Profit Prospects                              23-25
Tax Status                                                  26
Dividends and Reserves                                      27
Audit                                                       28
Attachments
1.  Composition of the Study Group
2.  Proposed Foreign Sabscription
3.  Curriculum Vitae of Mr. Edouard Mambu
4.  Curricualum Vitae of Mr. Serge Guetta
5.  Statement of General Policy of SOCOFIDE
6.  Establishment Convention between the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and
SOCOFIDE
This report was prepared by Mr. Sekse, on the basis of several visits
to the Democratic Republic of the Congo and discussions among all
parties concerned.



PROPOSAL FOR ESTABT1ISJfl4aIT OF THE
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FDIA'ICEIEDT DU DEtTO?PPEMNT (SOCOFIDE)
IN THE DEDIOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
I.  Economic Background
1.       In the Congolese economy, mining and industry together rank
beside, or a little above, agriculture in imoortance. Industrial develop-
ment, although begun much earlier, had its greatest period of growth
between 1950 and 1953 and, at independence in 1960, industrial output
accounted for at least lO% of GDP.  Industrial ggrowth slowed down somewhat
in the post-independence years, but the volume of manufacturing output
was already 26% higher in 1966 than in 1959.
2.       Industrial enterprises, almost exclusively foreign-owned, are
diversified. Most important are food, beverages and tobacco industries,
but there is also substantial production in textiles, shoesand leather,
wood processing, rubler articles, chemicals, metal processing, and con-
struction materials. In many of these branches, considerable expansion
is expected in corning years. Investment by enterprises was probably
about $200 million equivalent in 1969, most of which was in industry and
mining, and is expected to increase further in 1970.
3.       The relatively limited number of Congolese-owmed enterprises and
entrepreneurs presents a problem. However, the Government appears to have
a realistic appreciation of the vital role played in the economy by strong,
private enterprises, regardless of ownership, and while it wants to encou-
rage the growth of a Congolese entrepreneurial class, it has taken steps
to attract new foreign as well as local investment.  Thus, the new Invest-
ment Code of June 26, 1969, provides for tax advantages and liberal guaran-
tees for the transfer abroad of profits and the repatriation of capital.
Special measures and incentives to foster the growth of small, Congolese-
owmed, enterprises are under consideration.
4.       Fledium- and long-term institutional finance is virtually absent
in the Congo. The Government, as well as private investors in the Congo,
therefore attach great importance to the establishment of a strong develop-
ment finance company, and consider that its independence and effectiveness
would be best achieved if private investors hold a majority of the shares
and are in effective control of it. Both the Government and the private
sector are convinced that such a company will do much to assure the effec-
tive use of resources and to enhance further investment in productive
enterprises. On a conservative estimate, it should very soon reach an
annual investment level of, say, $5 million equivalent, and should be able
to increase this in the Tonger run.



-2-
II.  Approach to Bank Group
5.        Sporadic discussions between the Government and the Bank Group
about the establishment of a development finance company have been going or,
since 1963, but conditions in the Congo were for several years not conducive
to the successful operations of such a company. Since November 1965, how-
ever, Congo has enjoyed political stability, and the monetary reform of mid--
1967 laid the basis for economic reconstruction.  In February-March 1968,
Bank staff made a preliminary study of the need for and feasibility of a
development finance company, and conclusions were affirmative on both counts.
6.        In September 1968, a Study Group for the establishment of the
company was formed in Kinshasa. The Group, whose members are listed in
Attachment 1, included representatives of the Government, the National Bank
of the Congo (the central bank), the commercial banks in Kinshasa, the
Federation of Congolese Enterprises (FEC), of the Chamber of Commerce, and
the Congolese Businessmen's Association (APRODECO). The chairmanship and
secretariat of the Group were provided by the National Bank of the Congo,
while an experienced lawyer of the Congo's largest commercial bank acted as
its Legal Adviser. The President of the Republic gave to the Director of
the Office of the President principal responsibility within the Government
for seeing the project through. The Group has been active, in close colla-
boration with the World Bank, in formulating the following specific proposal-
III.  The Proposal
7.        Establishment.  The proposal envisages the establishment of
SOCOFIDE in two stages.  The first stage was the incorporation of the ccmp2ey,
with a small share capital of Z 100,000, held as follows:
Government                                Z 20,000
National Bank of the Congo        1/        20,000
Five commercial banks in Kinshasa-          30,000
APRODECO 2/                                 10,000
Chamber of Commerce.9/                      10,000
FEC                                         10,000
Z 100,000
The company was established on January 10, 1970. The second stage will be
completed when all the necessary contractual arrangements have been made,
and the share capital has been increased, as later described.
1/  Banque Belge d'Afrique, B.nque de Paris et des Pays-Bas, Banque du
Congo, Credit Congolais, Societe Congolaise de Banque.
2/ These subscriptions are divided among a limited number of members of
these associations.



-3-
8.        Legal Basis.  SOCOFIDE has been created as a limited liability
joint stock company ("societe par actions a responsabilite limit6e" -
S.A.R.L.) under the provisions of Congolese law. As a financial institu-
tion, it will be subject to such general monetary controls as the National
Bank may consider necessary.
9.        Object.  SOCOFIDE will provide investment finance to privately
controlled and managed enterprises in the Congo. An enterprise will be
considered private if the State and/or its agencies do not hold more than
one-third of the voting stock of the enterprise.
10.        Types of Financing.  SOCOFIDE will invest in any form suitable to
the projects assisted. It will make medium- and long-term loans, underwrite
securities, invest in share capital, provide guarantees, or do any combina-
tion of these.
11.        Scope of Operations.  SOCOFIDE will invest in business-like
enterprises in any economic sector. Its primary field of operations is
expected to be manufacturing and processing industries, but it may also
invest in such fields as large-scale, commercially oriented agriculture or
forestry, fishing, transport, and tourism. Housing and other real estate
activities, trade, "social" purposes or consumption, and very small-scale
enterprises, will be excluded, either explicitly by the policy statement or
as a result of the normal Z 10,000 lower limit on any one transaction.
SOCOFIDE will give due regard, in its activities, to the general economic
plans and priorities of the Government.
12.        Capital and Resources.  SOCOFIDE is expected to have a capital
base sufficient to develop resources, in due course, of about $40 million.
That base would consist of share capital subscriptions equivalent to $1
million and subordinated Government loans and advances totalling $6 million,
which together would permit borrowing up to around $30 million. An initial
IDA credit of $5 million is visualized, and additional borrowing as needed
thereafter, up to about three times the total of equity and subordinated
loans and advances. These resources are expected to develop as follows, in
the first two-to-three years:



- 4 -
Beginning Position (at completion of Stage Two)
Paid-in share capital                 $ 2 million
Government advance                      2 million
IDA credit                              5 million
$ 9 million
Withn 2 years
Paid-in balance of subscribed
share capital                    $ 2 million
Government loan                         b. million
$ 6 million
liTithin 3 years
Additional Bank Group
financing, say,                $ 7 million
Total resources within 3 years        $22 million
a.         Share Capital.  SOCOFIDE's subscribed share capital, at the com-
pletion of Stage Two, will be Z 2 million ($4 million), of which Z 1 million
($2 million) is to be paid in immediately, and the balance within two years,
at the decision of the Board of Directors. -hares will be registered until
fully paid, but can thereafter be registered or bearer shares at the share-
holders' option. The share capital is expected to be held as follows:
Private investors in the Congo         Z   600,000       30%
Government or Government agencies          500,000       25%
Foreign investors                          525,000       26.25%
ITFC                                       375,000       18.75%
Z 2,000,000     100%
A public issue in the Congo, during the month of April 1970, of the
Z 600,000 to be held by private investors in the Congo, has been fully
subscribed. Of this amount, at least Z 200,000 (but Z 300,000 at the most)
will be held by the five commercial banks in Kinshasa referred to in paragraph
7 above; the remainder, by a broad spectrum of enterprises and individuals.
Thirteen foreign financialiinstitutions (Attachment 2), from six countries
have agreed to subscribe the amount of Z 525,000 of share capital.



b.         Quasi-Equity.  This will be provided by the Government in a
total amount of Z 3 million ($6 million), divided between an advance of
Z 1 million and a loan of Z 2 million. These funds are designed to increase
the Company's capacity to contract conventional debt and to improve its
profitability, so as to help make it attractive to private investors. The
principal terms and conditions are as follows:
Government Advance:
i. Z 1 million, to be paid in full not later than the
moment when the share capital has been fully subs-
cribed and half of it paid in;
ii. free of interest;
iii. to remain at the disposal of SOCOFIDE during
its entire life;
iv. to rank pari passu with share capital in case
of liquidation or dissolution of SOCOFIDE.
Government Loan:
i. Z 2 million, under an agreement to be executed
not later than the moment when the share capital has
been fully subscribed and half of it paid in;
iU. disbursement to be made in two equal installments
of Z 1 million each: the first one year after
execution of the agreement, the second after one
additional year;
iii. total term 40 years, wxith equal payments over
20 years, after 20 years of grace;
iv. to rank parn passu with share capital in case
of liquidation or dissolution of SOCOFIDE;
v. interest payable at 1% per annum.
It is the intention to preserve these funds to the greatest possible extent
for use for investments in domestic currency. Until SOCOFIDE has been able
so to invest the funds, they will have to be deposited or invested on short
term in such a manner as to fetch a reasonable return. SOCOFIDE's share
capital will also have to be temporarily placed, pending investment in
accordance with the companyb objectives. To the extent satisfactory short-
term investment possiblities can not be found in the Congo,these funds are,
by agreement of February 12, 1970, with the National Bank, convertible at
the request of SOCOFIDE into foreign currencies for temporary deposit or
investment abroad.



- 6 -
C.         Other Loans.  An IDA credit of $5 million is envisaged initially.
In accordance with IDA's normal practice, the credit would be granted to the
Government, free of interest, and relent in Zaires to SOCOFIDE at the Wlorld
Bank's current lending rate and on its usual terms for development banks, thus
giving the Government the benefit of IDA's concessional interest and long
duration.  Although the proceeds of the credit would be used to finance imrort-
for specific projects, the credit would be repayable by SOCOFIDE to the
Government in Zaires, so that the Government rather than either SOCOFIDE or
its borrowrers wrould carry the foreign exchange risk. Subsequent IDA credits
or Bank loans would depend on SOCOFIDE's performance and requirements.
13.        Board of Directors and Executive Committee.  The Board will be
responsible for overall policies and operations.  It will have 7 to 11 memberg-^
it is envisaged that the Board to be elected upon completion of the capital
increase to Z 2 million will have 9 members. The directors' terms of office
are four years, renewzable, with arrangements for 2 to change each year, and
3 in the fourth year. The Board is to be composed as follows:
Government                              1
National Bank of the Congo              1
Private Congolese shareholders          3          5
IFC                                     1
Foreign shareholders                    3          h
9
14.        The five Board members representing shareholders in the Congo h-irg
been elected, and constitute the Board of SOCOFIDE until its subscribed sJarc
capital has been increased to Z 2 million as envisaged. They are:
Representing the National Bank
Mr. Edouard XAMBU, Director of Studies and Adviser to
Governor Ndele, Banque Nationale du Congo; Chairman
of the Board (his curriculum vitae appears as Attach-
ment 3)
Representing the Government
Mr. Jules SAIMB14A, Deputy Director of the Office of
the President of the Republic
Representing Private Shareholders
Mr. Jean G. NSELE, President, the Association Congolaise
des Banques, and President of the Societe Congolaise de
Banque (SOCOBANQUE)



-7-
uean JCiCI' C!E.E, Director General, Fkelration des
Entreprises Congolaises (FEC)
Mr. Joseph TSHITOKO NGOYI, Board Member of the Chamber
of Commerce and of the Association pour la Promotion
et la Defense de l'Economie Congolaise (APRODECO);
buisinessman.
15.        Members of the Board can not be borrowers of SOCOFIDE.  A member
of the Board having a direct or indirect interest in an investment proposal
must declare his interest, abstain from the meeting during the Board's con-
sideration of the proposal, and not vote on it. A special report is to be
prepared by the auditors each year on all investments or other operations
in which Directors have an interest. Board decisions will be taken by a
majority vote, including votes by mail or cable from absent Directors,
provided at least the half of all Directors are present at the meeting. If
a tie occurs, the Chairman will have a casting vote.
16.        The Board is expected to meet around four times a year, but not
less than twice a year. It will delegate certain powers to an Executive
Committee of the Board consisting of four persons, as follows:
the Chairman of the Board (or alternate);
the Director General of SOCOFIDE (or alternate);
one Board member (or alternate) representing either
private shareholders in the Congo or the Government,
dependirg on whose representative the Chairman is;
one Board member representing non-Congolese shareholders
(or alternate).
Except for the alternate of SOCOFIDE's Director General, alternates will be
appointed from among Board members.  The Executive Committee is expected to
have authority to approve individual loans up to Z 150,000 ($300,000) and
equity investments up to Z 50,000 ($100,000).  Its decisions would be taker
by majority vote, and there would be no casting vote. Any member of the
Committee could nevertheless request that a matter be referred to the Board
for decision. Loans over Z 150C000 and equity investments over Z 50,000
would, on the recommendation of the Executive Committee, be submitted to the
Board for decision.
17.        The composition of the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee, and the powers to be given to the Committee, are expected to be
set forth in a voting agreement among the major shareholders. Each group
of shareholders will be free to choose its otmn representatives.
18.        Chief Executive Officer.  The chief executive officer, holdi.ng
the title of Director General, has been appointed. He is Mr. Serge Guetta,
formerly Deputy Director General of the Societe' Tunisienne de Banque, whose



- 8 -
curriculum vitae appears as Attachment 4. Mr. Guetta, who joined the World
Bank as a staff member in September 1969, has been seconded to SOCOFIDE foi
an initial term of two years, beginning March 16, 1970.  The Director General
may or may not be a member of the Board but will, in any event, attend Board
meetings with all rights except, if he is not a Board member, the right to
vote. He will be a member of the Executive Committee, and will have such
power to conduct the day-to-day operations of the company as the Board inres;ts
in him. He will appoint and dismiss staff. Investment proposals will be
considered by the Executive Committee and the Board only after the Director
General has considered them and is prepared to report on them. He will eacki
year prepare an administrative budget for the Board's consideration.
19.        Staff.  The initial staff of the Company will be small, but will
gradually be built up, over one to two years, to a total of about 20, of which
some 8-10 professionals and some 10 accounting, clerical, and service staff,
While the intention is to employ and train qualified Congolese staff at all
levels of work, several principal officers will initially have to be found
abroad.
20.        Investment and Operational Policies. A Statement of General Polic-v~
attached as Attachment 5, was adopted by the Board of Directors on February XC;,
1970.  The Statement provides that SOCOFIDE will finance projects only on tile
basis of their financial and economic merits; will endeavor to diversity it-3
loans and investments- will turn over its investment portfolio to the exterr'
possible; will take a controlling interest or management responsibility in
enterprises financed only in exceptional circumstances; will not normally
make loans or investments of less than Z 10,000 ($20,000); will keep the
size of its individual operations within sound limits; will limit its debt
to prudent amounts; will not accept a foreign exchange risk on loans frorm
abroad; and will generally follow sound financial policies.
21.        Particular Privileges. Because of the particular importance
attributed to SOCOFIDE, the Government entered, on January 15, 1970, into
an Establishment Convention (Attachment 6) granting SOCOFIDE certain parti.
cular advantages.  SOCOFIDE is to work within the framework of Government
economic policy and to give assistance in the carrying out of any projects
that will contribute to the development of the Congolese economy, whilst
offering adequate prospects of profit and security. For its part, the
Government has guaranteed for 25 years that there will not be applied to
SOCOFTDE any legislative or regulatory action which might infringe upon fhe#
rights of its shareholders, directors, bondholders, creditors, or staff in
their relations with SOCOFIDE, and that SOCOFIDE will be able to employ stasf
of its own choice in the Congo or from abroad. Non-resident shareholders ,
SOCOFIDE will, during the entire existence of SOCOFIDE, be entitled to the
free sale of their shares in the Congo or abroad, and to the repatriation of
the proceeds of sales and of dividends.



- 9 -
22.       IWith specific regard to taxation, the Convention provides for full
exemption of income taxes and other taxes during a period of ten years, as
well as for exemption for the shareholders, bondholders and creditors of
SOCOFIDE from payment of the capital income tax on dividend or interest
income from SOCOFIDE. Expatriate staff of SOCOFIDE will, for a period of
five years, not be liable to income tax on their salaries. Moreover, the
Convention guarantees that the taxes now in force will remain unchanged for
25 years as far as their application to SOCOFIDE is concerned, and that
SOCOFIDE will have the right to more favorable treatment if it is given to any;
other company.
_t, r SOCOFIDE's Prospects
23.        Business and Profit Prospects.  As expected, there was a new round
of sharp price increases after the monetary reform of mid-1967, but it appecied
to have been curbed toward the end of 1968.  In 1969, however, prices (in
Kinshasa) again took an upward turn with an increase of about 14%. An
important economic and monetary policy objective is to arrest this trend.
The task of economic revival is also fraught with other problems, but, on
the whole, Congo's prospects are relatively favorable. Stimulated by the
additional domestic demand and under the pressure of competitive imports, t!ic
manufacturing sector, which continued to expand despite all difficulties since
independence, can be expected to expand further and to increase its produc-
tivity. Agricultural production, which fell off dramatically during the
years of strife, has already made substantial gains, and should continue to
expand, assuming continued security and improvement of the transport system.
Altogether, annual increases in the gross domestic product of around 4-5%
during the next four or five years appear quite possible.
24.        The demand for medium- and long-term financing for new investme.iti
in the private sector is substantial, and many investors have reportedly had
to postpone new investments because of the lack of such finance. Estimates
of potential business for SOCOFIDE range between a low of $20 million and a
high of $60 million equivalent in the first five years. To a considerable
extent, the actual volume will depend on SOCOFIDE's capacity to process arppli-
cations.
25.        The general aim of SOCOFIDE's financial policy will be to manage
its funds in such a way as to maintain the value of its own capital, to earn
an income sufficient for it to meet its obligations on time, to cover its
operating costs, build up adequate reserves, and pay reasonable dividends t¾;
its shareholders. SOCOFIDE's lending rate and other financial charges will
be determined by its Board of Directors in the light of both the market and
SOCOFIDE's own requirements for an adequate return. The company should be
able to pay its own way from the start. Financial forecasts, assuming
progressively increasing annual approvals of loans and investments adding lp
to a total of $30 million over the first five years, indicate that SOCOFIDE's
net profit should increase from about 2% of its paid-in share capital in its
second year to about 15% in its fifth year of operation. These would be
reasonably satisfactory financial results for a new company of SOCOFIDE's typl,



- 10 -
26.          Tax Status.  After the ten-year tax holiday, SOCOFIDE
will be liable to the Income Tax (h0%, also on capital gains), to
the Tax on Salaries of Expatriate Staff (5%), to the Property Tax
on buildings ($1 equivalent per square meter) and vehicles, and to
certain other local taxes, duties, or fees. In addition, it will
be responsible for collecting zand paying the Tax on Payment of
Dividends and Directors' Recompenses (20%), which is a withholding
tax, chargeable to the beneficiaries of these payments. The same
withholding tax will apply to dividends receivable by SOCOFIDE, to be
withheld by the paying companies. SOCOFIDE will not be liable to
income tax on such dividend income.
27.          Dividends and Reserves.  In order to protect the safety
of its capital, SOCOFIDE will have to build up prudent reserves, and
will be guided in this respect by a conservative reserve policy. It
will seek profits high enough both to do so and to pay reasonable
dividends to its shareholders. SOCOFIDE should be able to pay a
modest dividend in its third year, and pay increasing dividends there-
after.
28.          Audit. As required by Congolese law, the accounts of
SOCOFIDE will be audited by a team of public auditors ("commissaires
aux comptes").  In addition, an  experienced firm of auditors working
in accordance with internationally accepted standards will be engaged
to make an annual audit.



Attachment '
SOCIETE COM0QlV2 ISE DE FI  Tc,E=:T DU DEVELOPPEMETT (SOCOFIDE)
Composition of the Study Group
Created on September 1, 1968, to Formulate the SOCOFIDE Proposal
National Bank representative:
1.        Mr. Edouard MAMBU, Director of Studies and Adviser to the Governor.
Mr. Nambu acted as the Chairman of the Group, and has bocome the first Chair-
man of SOCOFIDE's Board of Directors.
Ministry of Finance representative:
2.        Mlr. Faustin BIRINDWTA, Inspecteur des Finances and Conseiller
du Cabinet.
Commercial banks' representatives:
3.        Mr. Jean G. N'SEIE, President of the Bankers' Association and
President of the Socie ,ongolaise de Banque (SOCOBANQUE). He has been
elected a member of SCOCFIDE's Board of Directors.
4.        Mr. Jacques J. PURNODE, Director General of the Banque du Congo.
FEC (F6d6ration des Entreprises du Congo) representatives:
Mr. Jean JONCKHEERE, President of FEC. He has been elected a
nember of SOCOFIDE's Board of Directors.
6.        Mr. Rene BOUIITON, Secretary General of the SEDEC (UNILEVER) Corrparny.
Chamber of Commerce representatives:
7.       IfIr. TUMBA, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Director Genrsal.
of the Brasseries de Kinshasa.
8.        Mr. Gaston CARILLON, Administrateur-Directeur General of the
CHANIC Company.
4.{epresentatives of APRODECO (Association pour la Promotion et la Defense
de l'Economie Congolaise):
c,        Mr. Jean-Pierre DERICOYA11D, President of' APRODECO, President ad
interim of (IECOMIN, President of SCCMI, President of Cie. Maritime Congo>ise,
ainer of Ets. Dericoyard.
10.       Mr. R. K. SENGA, owner of the Laboratoires Pharma, Kinshasa.
Mr. Willy DE BRUTYN, Conseiller juridique of the Banque du Congo,
acted as legal adviser to the Group.
IERD/DFC
April 23, 1970



Attachment 2
SOCI3TE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT DU DEVELOPPEMENT (SOCOFIDE)
Proposed Foreign Subscription
Name of Institution                                     Zaires
Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation       62,500
Banca Commerciale Italiana                              56,250
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro                              56,250
Commerzbank                                             50,000
Philadelphia International Investment Corporation       50,000
Banque Frangaise du Commerce Exterieur                  43,750
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique               43,750
Banque de Bruxelles S.A.                                33,750
Soci6te G6nerale de Belgique                            33,750
Bank of Tokyo                                           25,000
Industrial Bank of Japan                                25,000
Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan                          25,000
Banque Lambert                                          20,000
525,000 Zaires



Attachment 3
3OCI:E.7, COITO2LAISE DE FITNANCE11BAENT DU DEVELOPPEMENT (SOC clFIDE)
Cur-riculum Vitae of Mr. Edouard M4ambu
Date of birth: July 25, 1940
Education:
IPIasters degree in Economics 1964, University of Lovanium, Kinshasa
Experi?nne and positions:
- Traineeships at Banque du Congo (1960 and 1961), in the U.S.A
(1962), at the Monetary Council (1963), and at the Banque Nationale
de Belgique (1965 and 1966)
- National Bank of the Congo since 1964; in the Study Department
and deputy to the Governor's Adviser in 1966 and 1967; the
Governor's Adviser and Director of Study' Department since 1968
- Financial inspector of Gdcomin
- Board member of SONAS
- "Naitre de conferences" at University of Lovanium
- Chairman of SOCOFIDE Study Group
- Chairman of Board of Directors of SOCOFIDE February 1970
IBRD/DFC
April 23, 1970



Attachment 4
SOCIETE CONGOIISE DE FINANCEMENT DU DEELOPPEP4NT (SOCOuiDi)
Curriculum Vitae of Mr. Serge Isaac GUETTA
Date of birth: MIarch 27, 1927
Nationality: Tunisian
Education:
Graduated from the Institut des Etudes Commerciales de Tunisie
Graduated (with superior degree) from the Soci6te de Comptabilite de
France
Positions:
Banque de l'Algerie, 1947-57.  Left the bank with the position of Chef
de Service to the central management
Soci6te Tunisienne de Banque, 1957-69
Contributed to the creation of the STB
Deputy Director qeneral from the starting of operations of STB
Active participat_on in the organization of STB, its staff, agencies
and its affiliates in Tunisia and Europe
Board member of subsidiaries and of other para-statal agencies
Negotiator for joint venuures and foreign credits to Tunisia
World Bank, September 1969-March 1970
Various experience:
Participated in the creation of the Banque de Developpement de la
R4publique de Niger; Board member of that bank
Participated in the creation of the Union Inteinationale de Banque
(Tunis); Board member of that bank
Economic and financial adviser to the President of the Republic of Niger
Negotiations with Mauritania on the establishment of an agreement of
bank cooperetion between Tunisia and M4auritania
At the request of the President of the Republic of Niger, also President
of the Organisation Commune Africaine et Malgache, undertook a special
study of the Arican and Malagasy sugar agreement.
IBRD/DFC
April 23, 1970



Attachim ,nt
Page 1
SOCI7TE CONIOLAISE  DE FI.JTANC:317,TT DU DEV3LOPP=T (SOCOFIDE)
STATEME.1T OF GE16TERILL POLICY
(Approved by SOCOFIDE's Board of Directors on February 10, 1970.)
(Translation from French original)
The purpose of this Statement is to outline the policy that
shall be applied to the activities of the Societe Congolaise de Financement
du Developpement, hereinafter referred to as the Company, subject to any
amendments that may be made to this policy, after appropriate studies, by
the Company's Board of Directors.
I. OBJECTIVES ANTD OPERLTIONAIL CRITERIA
1. The Company shall assist in the development of soundly
managed enterprises in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in all the
productive sectors of the economy. The Company may not, however, engage
in activities relating exclusively to land or housing nor in activities
of a purely social, commercial or consumption nature.
2. In accordance with Article 3 of its Statutes the Company
shall restrict its assistance to enterprises which are in fact under
private management and control. This does not exclude the financing of
enterprises to which the State contributes, either directly or indirectly,
no more than one third of their share capital.
3. The Company shall extend its assistance on the basis of
economic and financial criteria only. Enterprises that submit projects
to the Company shall be required to have efficient management, be
technically sound, have satisfactory market prospects for their production,
be able to guarantee a financial return on the investment and generally
to contribute to the economic growth of the country. The Company shall
take all these different aspects into consideration when appraising the
projects submitted to it.
4. The Company shall make every effort to foster the distribu-
tion of industrial shareholdings and the growth of a capital market in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. With this end in view it shall
subscribe to issues of shares and bonds in appropriate cases and shall
sell shares from its portfolio, provided that these operations are carried
out under satisfactory conditions and that the enterprises concerned aie



Attachment 5
Page 2
not prejudiced by such a sale.   The Company shall endeavour to create a
market for its own shares in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and to
do everything within its power, within the framework of the law and its
own Statutes, to encourage Congolese investors to participate in its capital.
5. In accordance with Article 3 of its Statutes the Company
shall extend all kinds of assistance, financial and other, in keeping with
its objectives. The Company shall invest in the capital of enterprises
and shall subscribe to issues of shares and other securities. It shall
grant medium and long-term loans, for periods depending on the type of
project involved, with an appropriate grace period. The Company may
also furnish guarantees in certain cases. It shall endeavour to actively
promote the establishment of new and the expansion of existing enterprises.
It shall give ita clients technical assistance and advice on the planningg,
lay-out and execiution of their projects.   These loans and participations
may be granted for construction work, purchase of plant and equipment and
for the constitution of permanent working capital.
II. INVESTIENT POLICY
6. The Company's assistance in the form of loans or participa-
tions or both forms cornbined may not normally amount to less than Z 10,000.
However, the Company is prepared to consider requests for financing of
projects which, without reaching this amount, nevertheless present a certain
economic interest.
7. As a general rule, the total amount of loans granted by the
Company together with its participations and any other commitments of a
financial nature in favor of a single enterprise may not exceed 20e of
the paid-up share capital, tha unimpaired reserves and the quasi-capital
contributed by the Government pari passu with the share capital.
8.  The Company shall join with other financing institutions,
whether local, foreign or intemational, in financing projects whose
financial requirements exceed Lts capacity.
9. The Company's total investments in the form of equity partic-
ipations may not exceed the to;l of the Company's share capital and its
unimpaired reserves.
10. As a general rult the Company shall limit its eauity partic-
ipation in any one enterprise Z a maximum of 10% of its own share capital
plus unimpaired reserves.
11 . Generally, the Caiany shall not assume managerial respons-
ibilities in enterprises it assiBts and shall limit its share participa-
tions to 25% of the share capital of any given enterprise.  It may, however,



Attachment 5
Page 3
by unanimous decision of the Board, exceed this percentage and even
assume managerial responsibility if this is justified by the circumstances
or the nature of the enterprise. The Company may also, notwithstanding
the above restrictions, take any action it considers essential to protect
its investments.
12. When the Company underwrites an issue of shares or other
securities, it may commit itself for an initial amount in excess of the
limits fixed in the above Articles 10 and 11, as long as it has good
reasons to believe that its final investment will remain within those
limits.
13. When deciding upon the amount and form of financial assist-
ance it shall provide, the Company shall take into account all the
financial requirements of the project and the financial situation of the
enterprise in question. In principle, the loans the Company grants shall
not together exceed 50% of the total cost of the project.  It may, however,
exceed this limit if there is special justification, such as in the case
of an expansion project.
14. The Company shall endeavour to maintain a balanced portfolio
by distributing its loans, participations and other commitments amongst
all the sectors of industrial and economic activity within the range of
its objectives.
III. FINANCILL POLICY
15. The general aim of the Company's financial policy is to
maintain the value of its own capital, to manage its funds in such a way
that it is at all times able to honor its obligations on time and to
achieve a profit margin that enables it to cover its operating costs,
form adequate reserves and distribute reasonable dividends to its share-
holders. To this end the Company shall:
- maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities
of its own obligations and those of the loans it grants;
- not incur debts of more than one year of term in excess
of three times the amount of its capital plus quasi-
capital;
- not incur exchange risks in respect of those of its
borrowings that are repayable in foreign currencies;
- generally require appropriate guarantees for the loans
it grants;



Attachment 5
- fix its interest rates, commissions and other charges
at a level that will enable it to obtain a satisfactory
return;
- make adequate provisions against potential losses and
build up reserves to a level consistent with sound finan-
cial practices, taking into account the size and quality
of its portfolio of loans and investments as well as the
need to pay adequate dividends to its shareholders.
IV. ORGANIZATION - SPECIAL PROVISIONS
16. The Company shall strive to develop and maintain a solid
and well-balanced organization and a management team capable of appraising
the financing proposals put before it, assisting enterprises in the
formulation of their projects and supervising their execution. With this
in view it shall give special attention to the training of its professional
staff both locally and abroad. Professional and other staff shall be
recruited solely on the basis of their professional qualifications.
17. The Company shall require that its borrowers have an
accounting system which meets the requirements of sound management. It
shall, as far as it is possible, exercise the right to check the activities
and inspect the accounts and books of the companies it finances.
18. The Company's own accounts shall be kept in accordance
with generally accepted international standards. The Company shall engage
the services of an independent firm of professional accountants of inter-
national repute to audit its annual accounts.
19. The Company may undertake the management of special funds
only on condition that such management does not, in the view of the Board
of Directors, interfere with the Company's capacity to fulfill its main
objective of promoting and financing productive investments. Such funds
shall only be managed by the Company on condition that it receives a
remuneration to be determined in the light of the service rendered.
IBRD/DFC
April 23, 1970



Attacliment 6
SOCIETE C0T1JOLA.ISE DE FThANCEPENT DU DEVELOPPEIET (SOCOFIDE)
ESTABLISHI4ENT CONVENTION BETWEEN THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO AND
SOCIETE CONJOLAISE DE FINfACEY4ENT DU DEVELOPPEDIIT
(Non-official translation from French original)
BETWEEN:
The Democratic Republic of the Congo, represented by the Minister
of Finance, hereinafter called "the State,"
AND:
The Societe Congolaise de Financement du Developpement, a Congole3e
joint-stock limited-liability company with a capital of 100,000 Zaires and
having its head office at Kinshasa, hereinafter called "SOCOFIDE"I, and re-
presented by its Board members Messrs. Jean Jonckheere, Joseph Tshitoko-Ngoy,
and Jean N'sele, acting by virtue of the powers conferred upon them by the
Meeting of the Board of Directors on January 15, 1970,
THE FOLLOMNG IS HEREBY AGREED UPON AND DECREED:
PURPOSE
Article 1
The purpose of the present Convention is to define and guarantee
the terms and conditions governing the setting up and operation of SOCOFIDE
from the legal, social, economic, financial and taxation points of view.
GEMERAL GUIURI\TTEE
Article 2
By virtue of the present Convention, the State hereby gives
SOCOFIDE its guarantee in respect of the legal, social, financial and fiscal
conditions set forth in Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 below.
LEGAL GUARANTEES
Article 3
Throughout the life of the present Convention, no legislative or
statutory provisions shall be applicable to SOCOFIDE that might restrict the
rights of its shareholders, directors, bondholders, creditors or employe2s,
or impose any burden whatever upon them in their relations with SOCOFIMI,



AttachImiet 6
Page 2
However, should any other enterprise be offered more favorable
conditions than those granted to SOCOFIDE, its shareholders, directors,
bondholders, creditors and employees, SOCOFIDE shall have the right to
benefit by such conditions.
CIVIL MJAIM=TEES
Article 4
To contribute toward the satisfactory operation of SOCOFIDE, the
State hereby undertakes:
a. to facilitate recruitment by SOCOFIDE of any Congolese or
foreign staff that it may need;
b. to grant visas and residence permits needed by foreign
employees and their families, as also by the foreign
experts called in as consultants by SOCOFIDE;
c. to guarantee to all employees of SOCOFIDE their basic
personal rights, as laid down by Congolese law; and
d.  to guarantee to SOCOFIDE the free disposal of its premises,
whether these are used for vocational, social, cultural,
medical or any other purposes, subject to observance of the
health and safety regulations in force.
FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
Article 5
a. The State hereby recognizes the right of shareholders to:
- the free transfer of any shares forming part of the capital
stock of SOCOFIDE by a non-resident to another non-resident
or to a resident, under the conditions provided for in the
Articles of Association of the Company;
- the export from the territory of the Congo and the import
into that territory of any bearer shares of SOCOFIDE.
b. The State further guarantees:
1. The right of the non-resident lender to transfer in foreign
currency all amounts due to him, whether as reimbursement of
principal or as interest, commitment charge, premium on pre-
payments, or any other financial charge.
2. The right to transfer in foreign currency any payment of
dividend or other distribution made by the Company;
3. The right to transfer the proceeds from the sale, or transfer
of any kind, of all or part of the shares owned by non-resi-
dent shareholders, as well as such related rights as those
involving the proceeds from the sale of subscription rights,



Attaom,znt 6
Page 3
distributions other than in cash, the proceeds of liquidation,
etc. These rights of transfer shall apply equally to any cap-
ital gains made on shares over and above the nominal amount
initially subscribed or above the purchase price of the shares,
and to all dividends or distributions arising from a revalua-
tion of the capital. The transfers referred to in paragraphs
b(l), b(2) and b(3) above shall be made in the same currency
as that in which the initial investment was made;
4. The right to transfer the emoluments, reimbursements of travel
and living expenses, percentages of profit ("tantiemes") or
fees for attendance paid to non-resident directors and auditors;
5. The right to transfer that portion of the emoluments and allow-
ances due to foreign members of staff of SOCOFIDE which exceeds
their requirements in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
c. The State shall assume the exchange risk resulting from borrowing
operations in foreign currency contracted up to an amount of
US $30 million during the life of the present Convention between
SOCOFIDE and foreign or international lending agencies. The present
provision shall be applied on terms to be agreed upon in each case
between the State and SOCOFIDE.
FISCAL MJAR-IITEES
Article 6
a. For a period of 10 years, reckoned from the date of the present
Convention, SOCOFIDE shall be entirely exempt from payment of
the following taxes:
1. any fees chargeable on the occasion of the setting up of the
Company or of any increase in its capital;
2. all import  and/or other duties, including turnover taxes, on
any plant, equipment, machinery or components imported by
SOCOFIDE.
b.  For a period of 10 years from the date of the present Convention,
SOCOFIDE shall be entirely exempt from the payment of:
1. real estate tax on its properties, whether built upon or not
("contribution r6elle");
2. income tax ("contribution cedulaire");
3. any other duties or taxes collected or instituted by the Democ-
ratic Republic of the Congo, or by any other public, local,
administrative or other institution, or any other tax authority.
c. For 5 years the expatriate staff of SOCOFIDE shall be exempt frorm
the payment of tax on professional income ("contribution profes-
sionnelle") in respect of its emoluments.



Attachmcrnt 6
d.  For a period of 10 (ten) years from the date of the present Conven-
t-on, the sLaraholder., bondholders and creditors of SOCOFIDE sha:l'
be exempt from the payTiment of tax on income from the negotiable
securities of SOCOFIDE ("contribution sur le revenu des valeurs
mobili6res").
e.  Unless otherwise stipulated in the foregoing paragraphs of the pre-
sent Article 6, the tax treatment applicable to SOCOFIDE shall be
that in force in the Democratic Republic of the Congo at the date
of signature of the present Convention, and shall remain unchanged
for a period of twenty-five (25) years from that date, plus a max-
imum period of five (5) years to allow sufficient time for SOCOFIDw
to become established.
f.  If at any time during the period mentioned in the foregoing parag-
raph any changes are made in the general tax legislation applicab}.e
to industrial, commercial or financial enterprises in the Democra-
tic Republic of the Congo, such changes shall be made applicable
to SOCOFIDE at its express request.
GEJERAL OBLIGATIONS OF SOCOFIDE
Article 7
SOCOFIDEE shall carry on its activities within the framework of
Government economic policy, and shall lend assistance in the carrying out of
any projects that will contribute to the development of the Congolese economy.
whilst offering adequate prospects of profit and security.  SOCOFIDE undertakes:
a.  to promote the development of private productive enterprises
in the Congo, and to encourage Congolese and foreign investors
to participate in the economic development of the country;
b.  to promote the formation of an active capital market;
c.  to spare no effort to study the financing of new productive enter-
prises and stimulate domestic and foreign investment in the Democ-
ratic Republic of the Congo, with a view to the carrying out of pro-
jects compatible with the economic policy of the Government; and
d.  to contribute to the vocational and technical training of Congolese
nationals.
DISPUTES
Article 8
The parties to the present Convention agree that, if at any time,
during the life thereof, or subsequently, any doubt, difference or dispute
should arise between them concerming the execution, interpretation or imple-
mentation of any part of the Convention, or with respect to anything contained
in or relating to this document, or regarding the rights and obligations of
either of the parties, they shall, in the absence of any arrangement to settle
the matter by other means, have recourse to arbitration, at the request of
the most diligent party.



Attachment 6
Pag-e v
The arbitration tribunal shall consist of three members. The
party requesting arbitration shall choose an arbitrator and an alternate
arbitrator and inform the other party of its choice by registered letter,
at the same time stating the subject of the disagreement that is to be
submitted to arbitration.
The other party shall, within 30 day's of such notification, choose
its arbitrator and an alternate arbitrator, and shall notify by registered
letter both the party requesting arbitration, and the arbitrator chosen by
the latter, of its choice. Within 30 days from the date of notification
of the choice of the second arbitrator, the two arbitrators shall choose
an umpire.  If within the above-mentioned periods, the parties have failed
to reach agreement regarding the composition of the arbitration tribunal,
the necessary appointment or appointments shall be made by the Secretary-
General of the Permanent Court of Arbitration at The Hague.
The alternate arbitrators shall not form part of the arbitration
tribunal unless the arbitrators they represent are prevented from dis-
charging their duties or are not available. Each alternate arbitrator
shall be bound, in all cases, by the position previously taken by the
arbitrator in whose stead he is acting, and this latter arbitrator must
have kept him informed of that position with the least possible delay.
WAJithin 60 days of the appointment of the umpire, the arbitration
tribunal shall proceed to hear the dispute between the parties and under-
take an enquiry into the facts concerning thlat dispute.  The place of
arbitration shall be that agreed upon between the parties; shou'ld they
fail to reach agreement on this point, the dispute sha'1 be heard at
The Hague. The tribunal shall decide in justice and equity and the
language to be used shall be French. The decision of the umpire shall be
final, and mere notification of that decision to the parties shall be
binding upon them.
The arbitration tribunal shall be obliged to submit a written
report to the parties, and render its decision, within 120 days of the
appointment of the umpire, unless the parties have agreed in writing to
postpone the decision until a later date.
If the arbitration tribunal has not rendered its decision within
the periods prescribed, the parties may agree to extend them by two
months. If no decision is rendered during that extension, either party,
may terminate the duties of the tribunal and make other arrangements to
secure fresh arbitration of the dispute under conditions mentioned above.
Throughout the period of arbitration, and until a final decision
has been rendered, the parties may not excercise any part of the right or
rights that are in dispute.



Attachmnent 6
Page6
The cost of arbitration shall be all-ocated as follows:
each party shall be obliged to pay the fees and expenses of the arbitrator
it has chosen, the fees and expenses of the umpire being shared equally
between the parties.
FORCE HAJEURE
Lrt±c'e 9
Neither the State nor SOCOFIDE shall be held responsible for any
failure on their part to discharge their respective obligations under the
terms of the present Convention in cases where such failure is directly
attributable to a case of force majeure.
It is agreed that, so far as the Company is concemned, any events
outside its control that are liable to prejudice its proper functioning
shall be regarded as "cases of force majeure".
LIFE OF THE CONVENTION
Article 10
The present Convention shall remain in force and shall be binding
upon the two parties for a period of 25 years from the date of signature
of the present document, except for the provisions of Article 5, which
shall continue in force throughout the initial life of the Company and any
extension thereof.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 11
The Government undertakes, whilst the present Convention is in
force, not to put into effect any measure that might serve to increase,
directly or indirectly, the obligations of SOCOFIDE.
Done in two original texts at Kinshasa, this 15th day of
January, 1970.
DE14OCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGJO
The Minister of Finance and the Budget
L. NAMi ISI
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT DU DEVELOPPEI4ENT
Jean Jonckheere           Joseph Tshitoko Ngoyi          Jean N'sele
Directors of the Board
IBRD/DFC
April 23, 1970



