CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 190 CK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 190 CK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1970, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association):
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(b)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancelation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in Section 2.02 (e) of the Project
Agreement no applications for approval or requests for authorization to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of any portion of the Credit
shall have been received by the Association, or having been so received, shall
have been denied or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Credit
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right to request such approvals
and authorizations or to make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Credit shall be
cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions


﻿4
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "SOCOFIDE" means the Societ6 Congolaise de Financement du
D6veloppement;
(b)   "Statutes" means the Statuts of SOCOFIDE, as amended from time
to time;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and SOCOFIDE;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and SOCOFIDE pursuant to Section 3.02
of this Agreement;
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
SOCOFIDE out of the proceeds of the Credit to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(f) "investment" means an investment, other than a sub-loan, made or
proposed to be made by SOCOFIDE out of the proceeds of the Credit
in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project;
(g)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which SOCOFIDE
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan, or in which it proposes
to make or has made an investment, in accordance with and as provided
in Section 3.01 of this Agreement;
(h)   "Investment Project" means a specific project to be carried out by
an Investment Enterprise, as approved, or in respect of which
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been authorized, by
the Association pursuant to Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned, or
which is effectively controlled, by SOCOFIDE or by any one or more
subsidiaries of SOCOFIDE or by SOCOFIDE and one or more of its
subsidiaries;
(j)   "Convention" means the Convention d'Etablissement between the
Borrower and SOCOFIDE dated January 15, 1970;


﻿5
(k)   "Statement of Policy" means the D6claration de Politique Gnrale
of SOCOFIDE as adopted and approved by its Board of Directors on
February 10, 1970, and as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(1)   "Zaires" and the letter "Z" mean currency of the Borrower;
(m)   "Government Loans" means the advance and the loan totalling
3,000,000 Zaires authorized to be granted to SOCOFIDE pursuant to
Ordonnance-loi No. 70/002 of January 9, 1970; and
(n)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than Zaires.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000),
for use by SOCOFIDE.
Section 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books in
the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of the
Credit. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section, SOCOFIDE, on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to Section 7.03 of this
Agreement, shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account:
(i)        amounts paid, (or, if the Association shall so agree, such amounts
as shall be required to meet payments to be made) for the
reasonable cost in foreign currency of goods and services required
to be imported for carrying out the Investment Project in respect
of which the withdrawal is requested;
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy-seven per cent (77%) of such amounts
as shall have been paid for such imported goods as shall be
purchased from suppliers in the territory of the Borrower and
invoiced and paid for in Zafres; and


﻿6
(iii)      the equivalent of fifty-five per cent (55%) of such amounts as
shall have been paid for such goods produced in the territory
of the Borrower from imported components or raw materials
and purchased from the producers thereof and invoiced and paid
for in Zaires.
(b)   No amount shall be withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect
of an Investment Project unless such Investment Project shall have been approved
in writing by the Association; provided, however, that such withdrawals may be
made in respect of sub-loans for Investment Projects described to and authorized
by the Association for financing hereunder in accordance with the provisions of
Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement, but only up to an amount in respect
of each such Investment Project which, together with any amount or amounts
previously approved or authorized for such Investment Project under this
Development Credit Agreement, shall not exceed the equivalent of $50,000 and,
in respect of all such Investment Projects, the equivalent of $1,000,000 in the
aggregate or, in each case, of such other limit as shall from time to time be
determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall
be made on account of expenditures made by any Investment Enterprise, (i) for
any Investment Project subject to the Association's approval, more than ninety
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received in respect
of such Investment Project the application required under Section 2.02 (b) of the
Project Agreement or, (ii) in the case of any other Investment Project, more than
ninety days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the
description thereof pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 15    and   December 15    commencing    June 15, 1980    and   ending
December 15, 2019, each installent to and including the installment payable on


﻿7
December 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project; Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Project for which the Credit is granted is the financing
by SOCOFIDE of economic development in the territory of the Borrower through
loans for productive purposes to enterprises in such territory which are or will
be privately controlled, and through other productive investments in such
enterprises, all for specific development projects and in accordance with the Statutes
and Statement of Policy of SOCOFIDE.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent in Zafres of the
proceeds of the Credit to SOCOFIDE pursuant o a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, or amend, abrogate or waive any provision of, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall not take, or permit any of its political
subdivisions or any of its agencies or instrumentalities or any agency or
instrumentality of any political subdivision to take, any action which would prevent
or materially interfere with the performance by SOCOFIDE of any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement, and ,lall take or cause to be taken all reasonable
action which shall be required on its part in order to enable SOCOFIDE to perform
such obligations.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplisheo. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the international balance of
payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the maintenance of the service
thereof. The Borrower shall prompdy inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.03. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 4.04. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes that shall be
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on
or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 4.05. The terms and conditions of the Convention and of the
Government Loans shall be modified only pursuant to the mutual agreement of
the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Coiitions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shell become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿*                                 9
(a)   A  default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of
SOCOFIDE under the Project Agreement, and such default shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and SOCOFIDE;
(b)   The Statutes of SOCOFIDE shall have been amended so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of
SOCOFIDE, and such event shall continue for a period of sixty (60)
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower and SOCOFIDE;
(c)   SOCOFIDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken whereby any of the property
of SOCOFIDE shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(d)   Any creditor of SOCOFIDE shall have demanded payment of monies
lent to SOCOFIDE, prior to the agreed maturity of any loan having
an original maturity of one year or more, in accordance with the terms
of such loan;
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SOCOFIDE
or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely: SOCOFIDE shall have created,
acquired or otherwise taken over any subsidiary or other entity with the result
that the operations of SOCOFIDE, its financial position or the efficiency of its
management are or may be adversely affected.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
SOCOFIDE have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;


﻿10
(b)   the Borrower and SOCOFIDE have entered into the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has become fully effectivc md binding
on the parties thereto in accordance with its terms, subject only to
the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c)   the share capital of SOCOFIDE has been increased to Z2,000,000,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and one-half
thereof has been paid in; and
(d)   the Government Loans have been granted upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, SOCOFIDE and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of SOCOFIDE in accordance with its
terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and SOCOFIDE and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the
Borrower and SOCOFIDE in accordance with its terms, subject only
to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date of July 31, 1970 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 1974 or sucP, later date
as shall be agreed to by the Association.
Section 7.02. Subject to the provisions of Section 7.03 below, the Minister
of Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿*                                 11
Section 7.03. The Borrower irrevocably designates SOCOFIDE as its
representative for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted under
the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.04. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Boite Postale 10
Kinshasa-Kalina
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Alternative address for cables:
Minifin
Kinshasa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective nam-es and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s / Louis-Fernand Nduki
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


