CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 190 CK
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT
DU DEVELOPPEMENT
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 190 CK
Project Agreement
(Development Finance Company Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT
DU DEVELOPPEMENT
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT DU DEVELOPPEMENT (hereinafter called
SOCOFIDE), established pursuant to authorization given under Ordonnance-loi No.
70/001 dated January 9, 1970 of The Democratic Republic of the Congo
(hereinafter called the Borrower):
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower, for relending in Zaires to SOCOFIDE, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that SOCOFIDE agree to undertake certain obligations towards the Association
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS SOCOFIDE, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) shall have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. SOCOFIDE shall carry out the Project, described in Section
3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, and conduct its operations and affairs,
in accordance with sound financial and investment standards and practices, with
qualified and experienced management and in accordance with its Statutes and
Statement of Policy.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, SOCOFIDE shall submit Investment Projects to
the Association for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from
the Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting an Investment Project to the Association for approval
pursuant to Section 2.03 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, SOCOFIDE
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with a description of such Investment Project (including a
brief description of the costs thereof proposed to be met out of the proceeds
of the Credit) and the terms and conditions of the sub-loan to or investment in
the Investment Enterprise, including the schedule of amortization proposed
therefor, a financial analysis thereof and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by SOCOFIDE for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account in respect of sub-loans for Investment Projects not
requiring approval by the Association shall contain a summary description of the
Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description of the
costs proposed to be met out of the proceeds of the Credit), for which such
authorization is requested and the terms and conditions of the sub-loan for such
Investment Project, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the
date of approval by the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization
by the Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of
such Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal, or
reasonably increasing, semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal, or reasonably increasing, semi-annual,
or more frequent, payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Association and SOCOFIDE shall otherwise agree,
SOCOFIDE shall submit applications for approval of Investment Projects pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section and requests for authorizations
to withdraw from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section on or before October 31, 1972.
Section 2.03. (a) SOCOFIDE shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the


﻿5
Investment Projects, the sub-loans and investments and the administration,
operations and financial condition of SOCOFIDE.
(b)   SOCOFIDE shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of SOCOFIDE and shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 2.04. SOCOFIDE shall: (a) have its accounts and financial siatements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied; (b) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but, in any case, not later than three months
after the end of each such year, certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year, and an audit report by the said auditors of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of SOCOFIDE and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 2.05. (a) The Association and SOCOFIDE shall cooperate fully to
ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and SOCOFIDE shall from time to time, at the request of either party,
exchange views through their representatives with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance by SOCOFIDE of its obligations under this Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of SOCOFIDE and any other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) SOCOFIDE shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by SOCOFIDE of its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) SOCOFIDE shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Credit
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and of SOCOFIDE.
(b)   SOCOFIDE undertakes that unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby SOCOFIDE shall


﻿6
obtain, by written agreement or other appropriate legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Association and of SOCOFIDE, including, in the
case of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the
case of any such investment: (i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise
to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) the right to require that the goods to be financed
with the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the Association and of SOCOFIDE to
inspect such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(iv) the right to require that the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
sound business practice and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to acquisition,
transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the Association
or SOCOFIDE shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) the right of SOCOFIDE to suspend or terminate access by the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its agreement with SOCOFIDE.
(c)   SOCOFIDE shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as shall
be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange between the various currencies (including Zalres) used in its
borrowing and lending opkr ations.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and SOCOFIDE shall otherwise agree,
SOCOFIDE shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after
the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of SOCOFIDE and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would exceed three times the
consolidated capital and surplus of SOCOFIDE and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term  "debt" means any debt incurred by SOCOFIDE or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
SOCOFIDE or by a subsidiary.


﻿7
(b)   Wherever reference is made in this Section to the incurring of debt,
such reference shall include any modification of the terms of payment
of such debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent it is drawn down
pursuant to such loan contract or agreement and (ii) und!er a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Zafres debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt.
(d)   The term  "consolidated debt of SOCOFIDE and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of SOCOFIDE and all its subsidiaries,
excluding (i) debt owed by SOCOFIDE to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to SOCOFIDE or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) debt
referred to in paragraph (e) (ii) and (iii) of this Section.
(e)   The term "consolidated capital and surplus of SOCOFIDE and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of (i) the total unimpaired capital,
surplus and free reserves of SOCOFIDE and of all its subsidiaries after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent equity interests
of SOCOFIDE in any subsidiary, or of any such subsidiary in
SOCOFIDE or in any other subsidiary, (ii) the amount of the
Government Loans, and (iii) such amount of any other loan which
the Association may determine to be included in the consolidated
capital and surplus of the Borrower.
Section 2.08. SOCOFIDE shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
SOCOFIDE shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of assigning, or amending, abrogating or waiving any provision of, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association and SOCOFIDE shall otherwise agree,
SOCOFIDE: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its
property or assets, except in the ordinary course of business and (ii) shall take
all action necessary to maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on
operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.


﻿8
Section 2.10. Except as the AsFociation and SOCOFIDE shall otherwise agree,
SOCOFIDE shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity in respect of
any of its borrowings (other than deposits) having an original term exceeding one
year.
Section 2.11. SOCOFIDE shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to
observe and perform the obligatioas of SOCOFIDE under this Agreement to the
extent to which the same may be applicable thereto as though such obligatioi's
were binding upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 2.12. SOCOFIDE shall not amend its Statement of Policy except
in agreement with the Association, and shall consult with the Association on any
proposal to modify its Statutes.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement terminates pursuant to
Section 6.03 thereof, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder
shall terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of SOCOFIDE and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the date when the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms or on October 31, 1987,
whichever shall be the later.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any default
shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power, or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Section 4.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Project Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request


﻿*                                 9
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For SOCOFIDE:
Boite Postale 1148
Kinshasa I
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Alternative address for cables:
SOCOFIDE
Kinshasa
Section 4.03. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
or under Section 7.03 of the Development Credit Agreement on behalf of or by
SOCOFIDE may be taken or executed by its President jointly with any Director,
or by its Director General, or by such person or persons as they shall designate
in writing.
(b)   SOCOFIDE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority of each person who will act under paragraph (a) of this Section, together
with the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Project
Agreement to be signed in their respective names by their representatives thereunto


﻿10
duly authorized and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
SOCIETE CONGOLAISE DE FINANCEMENT
DU DEVELOPPEMENT
By /s/ Serge Guetta
Authorized Representative


