Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo 8473
MROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1065-BD)
MARCH 28, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Region
This documentbs a rsRictd dirbutbn nd may be ud by recpints only In te perfonnume of
thdr offlia duties. Its contents may not otherne be disclosed witou Wodd Bank authorInation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisals  SDR 1  -  Tk 20.3
US$ 1  -  Tk 15.5
Tk  1 - US$ 0.0045
Tk 1 million  = US$64,500
At November 1989: SDR 1 -  Tk 44.7
US$ 1 -  Tk 32.85
Tk 1 million  = US$ 30,441
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
3B     -   Bangladesh Bank
BSB    -  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSCIC  -   Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
DCA    -  Development Credit Agreement
EPB    -   Export Promotion Bureau
Got    -  Government of Bangladesh
IDA    -   International Development Association
ILO    -   International Labor Organization
ILT    -   Institute of Leather Technology
LIC    -  Letter of Credit
NCB    -  Nationalized Commercial Bank
PCI    -   Participating Credit Institution
PCR    -   Project Appraisal Report
SAR    -   Staff Appraisal Report
SCI    -   Small and Cottage Industry
S8I    -   Small Scale Industry
TA     -   Technical Assistance
Tk     -   Taka
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



TO* WOOtL  ANK
Wa#nton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0O" o onct"4~4'
March 28, 1990
ME14RADUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh Third Small Scale
nagstry Project (Credit 1065-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh Third Small Scale Industry Project (Credit 1065-BD),"
prepared by the  Asia  Regional Office.  No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document ha a suw disibuon an may b  ed by recid nw only in tho pfornfml
|of their ofial dutie Its contents may not odtciwis be d_cioud wilbwt World Du* autbodv*timg



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIv SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 1065-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface  ................                .......................................  (i)
Evaluation Suumary  .........         .............................         (ii)
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM MDA'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ...                      ..................          1
Background...........                                                 1
Sectoral Development Objectives in 1979180  ...........            1
Financial Context in 1979/80  .........................            2
Policy Context in 1979/80                ......       .            3
Links with Sector and Macro Policy Objectives    ...4
Project Objectives and Description            .... .......            4
Project Design  ......................                                5
Subloan Component  ........ .... . ....           .. ... . ..      5
Technical Assistance Component              .     .......          5
Implementation of the Credit Component    ..............              5
Project Results  .....                .       .......      ....       7
Credit Components  .....         ... .*. ......                    7
Technical Assistant Component .........................            8
Project Sustainability 9       ...................       .....        9
IDA Performance  .............. .... ............ .......            11
Borrower Performance  ....................................           12
Project Relationships  . .................................           12
Consulting Services  ...................                             12
Project Documentation and Data   ............. ........              12
Lessons from the Project  ................................           13
Project Design Issues  ................................           13
Supervision Issues  ........... . ....        ..... O  ......     15
ANNEX 1s  Project Activities and Performance of Agrani,
Janata and Sonali Banks . ..........         .....       16
Appendix 1  Project Activities and Performances-All NCBs.           27
Appendix 2  Project Activities and Performances-Agrani...           30
Appendix 3  Project Activities and Performances-Janata...           33
Appendix 4  Project Activities and Performances-Sonali...           36
This document hs a restricted ditibution and may be used by rfcipients only in the performance
of their officia dutib Its contents may not othewie be dislosed without World Rank authorization.



PART II PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROVER'S PERSPECTIV
Project Sinary  ......... ........ , ... .... ...... ..          39
Allocation of Funds  ...................                         39
Project Implementation  .... .................... .....          39
Subloan Component  . ...........................                39
Subproject Appraisal              ............                  40
Supervision Performance of PCIs  ......................         40
Reporting Performance .       .       .     ... .               40
Technical Assistance Component  ....................            40
Overseas Training       c......... ........ ...           40
Consultant's Services  ..        . .......40
Project Impact  ...      .. ..... ...... ........                41
Institution Building                . ...............           41
Bangladesh Bank  ............      .. ..............            41
Participating Financial Institutions  .................         41
Subproject Characteristics      .. ....       ......            41
Subsectoral Distribution       .........     ........     41
Geographic Distribution  ..........................       41
Economic Imipact of Sub-projects Financed ..........      41
Repayment Performance of Borrower  ................       42
Conclusion. ............                .    ...........        42
Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries
Corporation (BSCIC)  ................. s .......... s          43
ANNEXES
Annex 1 Actual Cumaulative Disbursement  ...............       45
Annex 2  Characteristics of Sub-Projects Financed  .....       46
Annex 3 Cumulative Collection Performance of
Participating Credit Institutions  ......       48
Annex 4  Particulars of Exposure Training of Official...       49
PART III STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits          ...........            50
Project Timetable  ...S..O..............................          SO
Loan/Credit Disbursements  ..... . .........  ....                51
Project Costs and Financing  .... . .............                 52
Project Results  .......S...............  . .... ...  ....        53
Status of Loan Covenants  ...........         ....      ..        54
Use of Bank Resources ............................ ...             56



ti)
BAJNGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 1065-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Small
Scale Industry Project In Bangladesh, for which Credit 1065-BD in the
rwount of US$35.0 million was approved on September 16, 1980. The Credit
..as closed on June 30, 1986, two years behind schedule.  SDR 4.3 million
(16 percent of the original credit amount) was cancelled, and the last
disbursement was on January 23, 1987.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
of the Country Operations Department I of Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was based on IDA's project completion
mission for the project in October-November 1988, and is based, Later alia.
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement;
supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and
internal IDA memoranda.



(ii)
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 106S-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Sumry
i.       The Third Small Scale Industry Project was designed to respond to
the belief that the target sector could be assisted with term credit
provided at commercial bank lending rates, and that this use of credit
would provide economic gains to the economy in a socially beneficial
manner. The project attempted to direct credit precisely and in detail to
subsectors and activities deemed of special importance for development and
where a market demand was thought to exist. The project evolved from twr,
previous small scale industry projects of similar design and objective.
ii.      The project also was designed to provide technical assistance for
small scale and cottage ind;stries, primarily through support for
technical, promotional and financial agencies with a mandate to support
small scale and cottage industry development.
iii.     Implementation was slower and of lower quality than projected.
The project included fewer agencies and initiatives than planned due to
lack of demand for project funds by one bank, difficulties in procuring
consultants, problems in selecting good subprojects, delays in getting
subprojects on stream, the inability to differentiate project subloans from
the generally poor credit discipline in Bangladesh, turf squabbles among
implementing agencies and overestimation of implementation capacities. The
Closing Date was extended and 16 percent of the Credit amount was
eventually cancelled.
iv.      The project's major positive contribution was creation of an
estimated 19,000 jobs. Its major negative contribution is decapitalization
of participating banks as a result of bad debt losses. IDA estimates those
could eventually approximate the size of the credit component, about Tk 600
million. The project proved deficient as a vehicle for meeting SSI
investment and employment objectives in a sustainable manner and for
strengthening financial institutions. The project fared better as a
vehicle for technical services, and several project objectives in this area
were achieved, although some activities were not undertaken or never
reached fruition.
v.       The Government found the procedures for implementation burdensome,
especially the rigidities arising from subloan targeting, but expresses no
displeasure with the project as a whole in its evaluation contained in Part
II of this report.



BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUtSTk PROJECT (CREDIT 1065-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Name                     :  Third Small Scale Industry Project
Credit No.               s  Cr. 1065-BD (Codet 4BANPAu81,
RVP Unit                 s  Asia Region
Country                  s  Bangladesh
Sector                   s  Industry
2.   Background
Sector Development Obtectives in 1979180
2.01     In 1979/80, industry (excluding construction) contributed about
112 to GDP. Small and cottage industries (SCIs) contributed about 50Z of
industrial value added and accounted for about 90? of value added in
private industry. The SCI sector comprised 30,000 registered firms
(excluding handlooms), roughly half a million cottage and rural
enterprises, and provided four or five million jobs.
2.02     The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) defined small scale industries
to include firms with up to Tk. 2.5 million in plant and equipment
excluding land and buildings. These firms accounted for about 452 of
registered private firms, 10O? of unregistered firms, 80S of industrial
employment, and 5O0 of investment in industry. Cottage industries and
rural enterprises were defined as having fewer than 10 workers.
2.03     About 502 of registered SCIs were located in Dhaka, with secondary
concentrations in Chittagong and Khulna. Unregistered firms were more
widely dispersed; only 5? were in large cities. Six subsectors -- food
processing, power- and handloom, wood, leather, paper and metal products --
accounted for about 91S of employment, 90? of investment, and 94? of value
added by registered small industries. The largest single group was agro-
processing which accounted for 61? of investment, 55? of employment, and
53? of value added. About half of the unregistered enterprises and
employment were in the handloom sector, followed by food processing and
cane, bamboo and wood products.
2.04     Good local market potential was considered to exist for
agricultural, fishing, and livestock products. Anticipated public
investment in agriculture was expected to generate demand for implements,



spares, repair services, and construction materials. Considerable
potential also existed to expand subcontracting with larger state
corporations for spares and components. Among rural enterprises, agro-
related activities using local raw materials, having strong local demand
and limited L-id, capital, and skill requirements were considered to have
development potential. Product and market surveys sponsored by the E-port
Promotion Bureau indicated sigr.ificant scope for exports of handicrafts,
finished leather and leather products, cane and bamboo products, ready-made
garments, ceramics, and spices. All of these products could be produced
efficiently by SCIs; most built on traditional skills, used local raw
materials, and required labor intensive processes. Improvements were
needed in market information, product quality and design, organization of
the decentralized production base,-and contacts with buyers. The Third
Small Scale Industry Project contained components addressing these
constraints and potentials.
2.05     Available statistics indicated that SCIs' efficiency compared
favorably with large firms in most subsectors in which SCIs were active.
SCIs had lower capital labor ratios and higher value added per unit of
labor and capital. In 1976177, the estimated rate of return on capital was
602 for small industries and 40? for larger firms. Unregistered SCIs
showed the highest rates of return in all subsectors in which they were
active.
2.06     The sector objectives were to encourage efficient and rapid
industrial developieet by promoting relatively labor-intensive, domestic
resouLce-using, and regionally better dispersed small and cottage
Industries in order to earn foreign exchange and provide employment.
2.07     Technical services to small industry has been the responsibility
of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (8SCIC).
Initially, BSCIC had lending functions; by the mid-1970s these were shifted
to commercial banks. Its major tasks were to identify and promote new
small firms and to provide technical services. Project preparation
ascertained that considerable improvements were required in BSCIC's
services.
2.08     Other agencies involved in small industry technical service were
the Export Promotion Bureeu (EPB) the Integrated Rural Development Program
(now the Bangladesh Rural Development Board), commercial exporters, and
private voluntary organizations (now called non-governmental organizations
or NGOs).
Financial Sector Context in 1979180
2.09     In contrast to the apparent boom and brilliant prospects for SCls
during the project's formative stages, the financial sector environment was
not favorable to the effective use of credit for stimulation of economic
growth and development. Political involvement in credit allocation and in
individual credit decisions was not uncomnon.  The nationalized commercial
banks were being used as channels for 'Aevelopment money" from donors, on



-3-
terms including high grant elements, and from government for purposes
accorded special priorities. Rapid disbursement to meet lending targets
was an urgent priority. There was a widespread perception among runy
officials, NCB staff and their borrowers that repayment of these funds was
not very important. One local banker later referred to operations under
the project as distributing money,' which conveys the attitude that
prevailed.
2.10     Real interest rates had been negative since independence.
Inflation rates averaged 12.5Z in 1977/78 and 18X in 1979180, while the
maximum savings interest rate was 11.252 and the term lending rate was
11.51. During 1976177 to 1978179, domestic bank credit incre.sed by some
50?, main..y due to increased lending for jute, imports and agriculture.
Savings grew sluggishly and commercial banks relied heavily on Bsagladesh
Bank refinancing. Loans to small enterprises amounted to aboat a quarter
of term financing for private industry. The two development finance
institutions, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha,
accounted for 802 of total term credit to industry. Commercial lending Was
normally short-term, with some roll-overs.
Policy Context in 1979180
2.11     While this project was under preparation, industrial and trade
policies were not yet liberalized. The New Industrial Policy bad not yet
been announced. Nevertheless, GOB was already encouraging greater private
sector participation. Industries reserved for the public sector were
opened to private investment, ceilings on private investment were liftec,
investment incentives increased and availability of term credit for private
industry improved. The investment environment had tremendous room for
improvement through simplification and liberalization of investment
approval, import licensing, and export procedures.
2.12     The draft Second Five Year Plan (FY81-85) gave priority to small
and rural enterprise development to meet industrial growth, employment, and
export objectives. GOB intended to achieve this by improving SCI services,
includings (a) refinance for term credit to SCIs, with attractive spreads
for participating banks; (b) subcontract'ng links; and (c) preferential,
but not compulsory, public sector procurement from SCIs. Nevertheless, the
1980-82 Investment Schedule reserved investments in certain sectors for
SCIs, although GOB subsequently used such reservations simply as *guides*.
2.13     Export incentives included income tax rs-lates for exporters,
bonded warehouse facilities, export credit guarantees, and duty drawback
facilities, but these were not implemented very well. Four areas were of
particular importance for SCIs: (a) new and small exporters had difficulty
obtaining pre-export financing from commercial banks; (b) procedural
problems plagued duty drawbacks; (c) the Export Performance License system
did not provide an effective incentive to save foreign exchange; and (d)
export procedures and organization of export promotion and product
adaptation in non-traditional product lines were deficient.



-4-
Links with Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives
2.14     The Third Small Scale Industry project was designed to promote a
segment of the industrial sector which was considered to have substantial
growth potential and characteristics that could contribute significantly to
socio-economic development in Bangladesks low capital requirements, high
labor intensity, use of domestic raw materials, regional dispersal, export
potential, and efficient use of resources. It was consistent with GOB's
policy of promoting industrial development to earn foreign exchange,
improv.  income distribution, and especially to generate employment
opportunities.
3.   ProJect Objectives and Description
3.01     The conceptual foundation for the project developed from
predecessor projects. The concept was to stimulate small scale industrial
and service firms prov_ding credit to generate demand for loans indirectly
through technical services to entrepreneurs and government agencies, and to
improve the quality of lending and lending relationships by training
bankers.
3.02     At appraisal, rough projections of credit deman" by SCIs were
made. Data for 1978 and 1979 indicated that lending to SCIs had increased
by about 30 p.a. in nominal terms. Loan commitments under SSI II (Credit
825-BD) were robust. The US$6.2 million subloan compouent was fully
committed by the two participating banks, Sonali and Janata, by June 30,
1980, well ahead of schedule, when subproject pipelines totalled about
US$4.5 miLlion. Based on assumptions about industrial sector growth rates,
incremental capital output ratios, and working capital, the appraisal
mission projected investment in the sector over the project implementation
phase at about Tk 3.6 billion (US$232.3 million). Based on these
expectations, and in line with GOB's emphasis on promoting small and
cottage industry in the Second Five Year Plan, IDA approved a US$35 million
credit for SSI III, with a US$30 million (SDR 22.7 million) credit
component. This was 4.8 times the SSI II credit amount.
3.03     Proiect Obiectives:  The principal project objectives were to
increase productivity, earnings, employment and exports in the small and
cottage industry sector by addressing credit, technical, and marketing
constraints in three major segments: (s) organized small industries and
cargo transport enterprises serving local markets; (b) exporters and
decentralized manufacturers of handicrafts and light industrial products;
and (c) agro-related rural enterprises. To meet these objectives, the
project had two major components, with IDA providing US$30 million
equivalent for subloans and about US$5 million equivalent for technical and
marketing services.
3.04     The credit component extended SCI financing capabilities developed
within leading commercial banks under the SSI II project. The technical
service component was designed tot strengthen small industry promotion and



- 5 -
extension services; facilitate links between small enterpri.ses and larger
manufacturing and exporting firms; and use the upazila and village
cooperative notwork for rural enterprise promotion. the project was
national In scope. New and existing SC: firms and cooperatives in a wide
range of manufacturing, industrial service, transport and agro-related
activities were to be eligible for credit. Technical services for
*organized small industries" having fixed assets at or)p..nal cost of Tk.
500,000 to Tk. 2.5 million would focus on promising pz..ht groupss light
engineering, selected agro-industries, finished leather, and wood products.
Export promotion and product adaptation for handichafts and light
industries would concentrate ons cane, bamboo and wood items; leather
products; specialized textiles and garments; and ceramics.  Rural
enterprises, mainly in beekeeping, small livestock, and fish ponds, were to
be promoted.
4.   Proiect Desian
4.01     Subloan component.  Credit institutions to be responsible for
subproject appraisal, lending, supervision, and collections were the three
largest nationalized commercial banks (Agrani, Janata, and Sonali Banks)
and BSB. SCI lending would be encouraged and supported by: (a) supplying
US$30 million equivalent for SCI term lending; (b) establishing a Refinance
Unit within Bangladesh Bank to do rapid subproject review and to refinance
subloans to eligible SCIs; and (c) providing incentives to these credit
institutions to increase financing of viable SCIs through differential
spreads, an improved credit guarantee scheme,-and simplified procedures.
4.02     Technical Assistance Component.  The technical and marketing
service component woulds (a) strengthen BSCIC's promotion and extension
services for organized small industries by changing its organization and
staffing and by implementing subsector-specific schemes, a subcontracting
exchange, and district-level extension; (b) establish common finishing
facilities and technical services for small- and medium-scale tanne.ries
under the Institute of Leather Technology (ILT); (c) promote exports of
light industrial and har.dicraft products by establishing an Export and
Product De--elopment Program in the Export Promotion Bureau to assist
exporters through product adaptation and supply development consultancy
services and by sales and exposure trips; (d) provide technical services,
organizational assistance and credit to establish agro-related rural
enterprises through the Integrated Rural Development program and selected
upazila cooperatives; (e) finance technical assietance for a Planning
Commission study to determine potential for rural enterprises and for
institutions to serve them, and (f) strengthen major credit institutions'
appraisal-based SCI lending capabilities by accelerated training of branch
level staff of Agrani, Janata, and Sonali Banks; establishing a Small
Industry Department in Agrani Bank, and providing short-term technical
appraisal advisors to the banks' small industry departments.
5. Implementation of the Credit Component
5.01     The credit component was complex.  It required establishment of an
Industrial Credit Division in Bangladesh Bank, and it included four lending



targets quantified by subsector or subloan size to achieve distributional
objectives (SAR paragraph 4.16), four participating banks (4.22-4.27), a
graduated refinancing interest rate and spread schedule based on subloan
size (4.17-4.18), different term and conditions for working capital and
investment finance (4.19), and a credit guarantee scheme operated by
Bangladesh Bank to substitute for the banks' usual collateral requirements
(4.20), which would not be satisfied under the project.
5.02     Despite the optimism expressed at appraisal (2.15), the credit
component started slowly. By January 1983, two years after effectiveness,
subloan approvals had not reached 302 of the amount of the component. By
the scheduled closing date, June 30, 1983, about half of the credit
component had been committed. By June 1984 the total amount had been
committed to 690 rather than the 1200 subprojects projected at appraisal.
Average subloan size was about $45,000 rather than the $25,000 envisaged.
Cancellation by subbotrowers reduced to 678 the number of subprojects
financed and disbursements amounted to SDR 20.82 million out of SDR 22.87
million available, requiring cancellation of the unused portion by IDA.
The Bangladesh Shilpa Bank never participated in the project because of
backlogs of funds from a previous project and from the Asian Development
Bank.
5.03     The project contained extensive lending targets, some of which
required modification during implementation. The SAR states that only 10?
of subloans are expected to exceed Tk 500,000 and that this 10 of
subprojects would receive 40S of subloan volume (5.04-5.05), and also that
no more than 602 of subloan volume would be available for subprojects
having fixed costs in excess of Tk 1 million each (4.16), with a 7O0 limit
on the proportion of subproject costs that could be funded by a subloan
(4.17). Subloan approval constantly strained the provision that at least
402 of total subloan volume be for small subprojects (4.16), originally
dsfined as having assets of Tk. 1 million or less, and redefined
retroactively in August 1983 as having assets of not more than Tk. 1.5
million, in response to devaluation and inflation. This limit implied that
small subloans would constitute about 60X of the total number of subloans.
At mid-1984 the proportion stood at 37.5s63.5. It vas eventually agreed to
exclude from the ratio loans to firms that exported their entire
production, and the ratio achieved was 61:39.
5.04     The role of the Credit Guarantee Scheme does not appear to have
been carefully considered at appraisal. The scheme exists primarily on
paper, without procedures for claim adjustment or for reducing underlying
risks rather than merely transferring them. Only two banks took out
guarantee cover. They have paid annual premiums of 12 of amounts
guaranteed, defined as 757 of principal and interest due on subloans having
an original size not exceeding Tk 500,000 and 50 of those above (4.20).
The subloan size criterion was subsequently altered to Tk 100,000 under the
project according to a Bangladesh Bank official interviewed by the PCR
mission, lowering the scheme's liability.  The first claims in the Scheme's
history arose under the project and were filed in September 1988.
Potential claims arising under the project could exceed Tk. 200 million,
possibly much larger than Bangladesh Bank would be willing to pay.



-7-
6.   Pro3ect Results
6.01     Credit Component: The objectives of the project were to "increase
productivity, earnings, employment and exports in the SCS sector.' The
extent to which these goals were generally met cannot be unambiguously
ascertained from existing data. Without-project levels of productivity,
earnings, employment and exports for the sector are counterfactual. Hence
additionality cannot be determined; and certain enterprises financed by the
Project would have obtained capital in the absence of the Project. Changes
in sector performance in these dimensions cannot be clearly attributed to
the project.
6.02     It can be argued that disbursemeat of subloans to 678 enterprises
contributed to employment and exports. An estimated 19,379 jobs were
created, against a target of 25,000, which appears to be the project's most
positive achievement. The average fixed cost per job created (except in
the cargo transport subsector) was estimated at Tk 27,500 ($1,100) as of
August 1984 and at Tk 40,650 at completion, well below the Tk 50,000 limit
specified at appraisal.
6.03     However, more than 251 of a sample consisting of 29 subborrowers
visited by the PCR mission in late 1988 had essentially failed; an
additional 312 were operating at much less than full capacity. The sample
was located in the Dhaka and Chittagong areas, which reportedly have the
most favorab. 3 investment enviranments. Sectorwide data on exit and
capacity utilization are not available, but the mission's impression is
that the project's performance in this respect is not inconsistent with
small scale industry experience over a similar time span.
6.04     Based on these field visits and on the three banks' loan
collection performance, it is difficult to conclude that overall
productivity and earnings were generally enhanced by the project or that
the project was cost-effective in addressing its SCI objectives. If the
business disappointments and failures financed by subloans are taken into
account, as they should be, the fixed cost per job created rises
dramatically and the employment created falls correspondingly. If 25X of
loans created no permanent jobs and an additional 302 created only half the
permanent jobs expected because of operations far below capacity, 401 or
7,752 of the permanent jobs expected to have been created would have been
lost, leaving a net total of 11,627 permanent jobs. The capital cost per
permanent job created (excluding cargo transport) would be Tk 40,65010.6,
or Tk 67,750 (US$2,710 in 1984 prices), which is above the Tk 50,000 limit
specified at appraisal. The SAR appears to have specified these in nominal
terms, and on a real basis the adjusted result is probably not greatly
different from the target limit.
6.05     Fifteen percent of credit funds, with a provision for increasing
this proportion, were allocated to cargo transport (4.16). Approvals
amounted to less than 42, largely because of a lack of demand for subloans
within the Tk. 3 million size limit under the project. The credit target



-8-
of a minim=m of US$l million equivalent for exporters of handicraft and
light industry products and related SCI (4.16) appears to have been met.
But disbursement of US$1 million equivalent for rural cooperatives failed
to materialize because of organizational dlfficulties including turf
squabbles among agencies concerned. (See Part II of this report for a
review of subloan targeting.)
6.06     Technical Assistance Components  The technical and marketing
component was also complex. It featured a number of measures involving
BSCIC (4.30 ff). These included staff expansion, a three-year training
plan, introduction of a staff incentive plan, establishment of subsector
cells, a reorientation that was intended to broaden TA impact by reducing
the range of services and emphasis on industrial estates in favor of
priority to high-impact outreach and training of trainers. BSCIC was also
expected to decentralize its operations, establish a subcontracting
exchange and sponsor a series of pilot projects. Other training and
marketing components included services for tanneries through the Institute
of Leether Technology (ILT) (4.40-4.42); the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB)
(4.43-4.46); rural enterprise development including beekeeping, fishponds,
goat rearing and poultry (4.47-4.54); and a three-year study of rural
enterprise development prospects (4.55-4.57).
6.07     The quality of implementation of the technical and marketing
component was mixed. Marketing assistance provided to the EPB was deeply
appreciated, and apparently yielded many tangible benefits. This
assistance consisted of four consultants on cane and bamboo, leather and
leather products, handloom products (about 22 manmonths) and seven exposure
trips (each for about 8-10 participants for two to three weeks) to India,
the Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, and China, and numerous local fairs
and buyer-seller meets. For example, the handloom consultant produced
1,200 product adaptations and the cane and bamboo consultant upgraded the
quality of rattan and rattan product designs. GOB officials and potential
exporters benefitted from sales and exposure trips to East Asian countries
and the major markets in Europe (Frankfurt, Munich, and London). The EPB
credited the rapid rise in handicrafts exports from Tk. 57 million in
1985186 to Tk. 130 million in 1987188 to technical assistance provided
under the project.
6.08     On the other hand, 48 maumonths of consultancy services provided
to ILT resulted in the construction of a fully equipped leather finishing
facility that is not being used because GOB had problems with the Principal
of ILT, and turf battles between the ILT and BSCIC.  IDA has approached the
Ministry of Education, which is responsible for this component, to consider
privatizing or reassigning responsibility for the common facility so that
the intended beneficiaries can use the investment.
6.09     In total, BSCIC utilized seven consultants for a total of 54
manmonths, costing an estimated US$142,000 in foreign currency and Tk. 2.5
million in local currency (which included consultants' income taxes).  In
addition, BSCIC used IDA funds to provide 14 weeks of study tours for
BSCIC's Planning Director to visit Malaysia and for a four-member team to



visit Japan to learn about subcontracting. Due to GOB procedural delays
and delayed provision of c.v.'s by IDA, BSCIC's utilization of IDA
consultants was slow, and US$0.8 million were reallocated to the credit
component. All the consultants retained by BSCIC, however, were considered
effective. They prodided advice on engineering, subcontracting,
woodworking, and pilot projects. BSCIC extended the appointment of one of
the engineering advisors, using International Labor Organization (ILO)
funds. Partly as a result of its dialogue with IDA, BSCIC also utilized
other ILO facilities and implemented a reorganization in 1985/86. As a
result, BSCIC decentralized its functions and is concentrating its efforts
chiefly on industrial promotion and extension.
6.10     Training was provided to 18 staff from Agrani, Janata, Sonali, and
the Bangladesh Bank small industry departments in exposure and project
appraisal trips of two weeks to a month duration to the Philippines and Sri
Lanka. Few of those commercial bank staff trained remained in the
respective industrial credit departments, but the training helped each
commercial bank fulfill project training targets. An advisor was intended
for the Bangladesh Bank's Industrial Credit Department, but due to lack of
suitable candidat, ' available in a timely manner, that consultancy was
never filled.
6.11     The rural thana and village cooperative technical assistance
component, to promote beekeeping, fishponds, goat rearing and poultry
failed to materialize, as did lending activities for these purposes. This
confirmed the prediction by the Projects Department Director following his
reading of a draft SAR, that this component was unnecessary and unlikely to
work, an 'elaborate ornament to an already well-decorated Christmas tree."
7.   Project Sustainability
7.01     The supply side of the project's credit and investment component
is not sustainable in any commercial or economically rational sense. The
three banks disbursing project funds have had monumental difficulties
obtaining loan repayments. As of mid-1988 about 43? of principal advanced
to subborrowers had fallen due (see Part I, Appendix 1, page 1, line 659),
but aggregate collections were less than the amount of subloan interest
billed. Therefore, the lending operation is unlikely to be sustained by
these banks except through continued soft funding, nor will it attract
competition from other lenders with a commercial orientation.
7.02     The investment operation by small businessmen may not be
commercially sustainable in the aggregate. The overall rate of return to
subprojects appears low or possibly negative, although this conclusion
cannot presently be validated by hard data. Demand for resources such as
those provided under the project persists, however: government agencies are
hungry for funds, small scale entrepreneurs continue to seek more capital,
and opportunities for corruption and for nonrepayment of subloans make
access to this type of project resources privately profitable, even for
some subborrowers who have abandoned their subloan-financed operations.
This creates a sustainable demand for subloans such as those issued under
the project, but would not result in economically efficient use of funds.



- 10 -
7.03     The project is making a lasting negative financial impact on
participating institutions, possibly equal to the amount of subloan
disbursements, explained in the Annex to Part I. On the other hand, NCB
officials claimed to have learned much about term lending from it. The
technical assistance component was not intended to be sustainable in the
sense of spurring repeated recourse to TA, but several consultants made
lasting contributions. Consultants' efforts were appreciated by recipient
agencies.
7.04     Sustainability is ensured by profitable lending operations.
Profitability cannot be fully or faithfully conveyed by a collection ratio
or any static measure such as the spread or the proportion of the portfolio
in arrears. Rather, profit is clearly demonstrated only by a positive
accounting residual after all costs, including bad debt losses, are
recognized. Profit is also implied by a positive net present value for
project based on separate accounting for these activities as required by
IDA. This report does not include complete analyses of these variables
because performance is such that large losses are apparent, even before
considering the overheads of the NCBe and of the responsible unit in
Bangladesh Bank.
7.05     The analysis in the Annex to Part I shows the financing flows of
the NCBs under the project through June 30, 1988. These include
(a) lending flows defined as disbursement of subloans and reimbursement
from the project loan funded by the proceeds of the IDA credit; (b)
principal repayment flows determined by subloan principal collection
schedules and repayment of principal on the project loan; (c) interest
flows consisting of subloan interest due according to subloan contracts and
payment of interest on the project loan; and (d) arrears of subloan
principal and interest. These flows combined to yield a regative capital
position of Tk 200 million (Tk 20 crores) for the three NCBEs from project
activities as of June 30, 1988 (Part I, Appendix 1, page 3, line 284).
This loss could grow to Tk 500-600 million as arrears continue to
accumulate as the remaining 57Z of subloan principal balances fall due, and
as interest arrears grow. This projection basically assumes that total
collections will not greatly exceed interest billed.
7.06     Prospects for redressing this position through improved
collections, reversing the trend of increasing arrears, are dismal. There
are no simple steps the NCBEs could take at this stage to turn the situation
around and recourse to collateral, where ccllateral was pledged, is costly,
difficult and very time-consuming in Bangladesh. The three NCBEs' total
collections ranged from 66Z to 932 of principal billed. For subloans to be
current on average, the banks' overall collections would have to be about
three times greater than those achieved as of the end of June 1988. This
result is based on a simple comparison of cumulative collections from
subborrowers (Tk 158 million from line 244) with cumulative scheduled
subloan debt service falling due (Tk 466 million from line 238).
7.07     For the banks to have broken even on a cash flow basis, total
collections would have had to have been about two-and-one quarter times
those achieved by mid-1988. This result is based on a simple comparison of



- 11 -
the sum of cumulative refinancing principal falling due (Tk 275 million
from line 264) plus cumulative refinancing interest falling due (Tk 80 mil-
lion from line 270) divided by total collections from subborrowers
(Tk 158 million from line 244). (These simple comparisons overstate the
amounts of collections required because higher collections earlier in the
project would have reduced arrears and hence interest on arrears, which in
turn reduces the total amount due).
7.08     An additional project financial loss to the Borrower arises from
the devaluation of the Taka against the SDR. The SDR 22.4 million actually
disbursed from the Credit amounted to Tk 464 million at the end of 1980 and
to about Tk 920 million in late 1988.
8.   IDA Performance
8.01     Project financial and investment performance was generally
deficient. IDA failed to deal with the NCBs effectively and had little
impact on the overall financial environment. The magnitude of bad debt
losses that have occurred and that are likely to occur shows that project
strategy and design essentially failed to address tehnical banking matters
including lender's risk, loan pricing, and loan accounting. Poor project
design led the banks to lose money from participating in the project. The
agencies that implemented the credit component were generally ill-equipped,
not sufficiently experienced, or lacked the motivation to fulfill project
objectives.
8.02     Bank supervision included six missions during the 66 months
between effectiveness and completion (Part III). (There were additional,
brief mission by head office staff, usually in conjunctlon with operations
in other countries in the Region, but the results of these are not found in
project files.)   Most of these missions produced extensive reports that
clearly convey problems and actions taken. Some of these were recorded in
aide memoires and documents relating to predecessor and suceessor projects.
The project was closely husbanded by IDA's Resident Mission, but for 25
months between 1982 and 1984 there were no fully documented head office
supervision missions. This hiatus, plus the fact that form 590 cover
sheets were not always filed, which leaves open the possibility that IDA's
senior management may not always have been fully advised on the project's
status.
8.03     The supervision issue of greatest substance is what steps the Bank
could have taken to improve the performance of the credit component. The
credit component was beset with such serious design flaws (PCR paras. 1.9,
1.16, 1.23 and 1.37) that corrective actions sh0rt of suspension of
disbursements could not have materially stemmed the cash hemorrhage that
resulted for the participating banks.
8.04     With respect to the technical assistance component, IDA
performance was, on balance, better. Failure to implement certain TA
activities did no absolute damage and only the leather processing facility
became a white elephant.



- 12 -
9. Borrower Performance
9.01     The Borrower implemented the organizational requirements included
in the project. These consisted of establishment of fully staffed
industrial term lending cells which are still operative in the three banks
and in Bangladesh Bank, reorganization of BSCIC, and changes in terms
offered by the Credit Guarantee Scheme. Technical assistance under the
project was generally delivered as planned. Exceptions included failure to
bring the leather finishing plant into operation, delays on the rural
enterprise study, abandonment of rural and cooperative activities, and
failure to obtain a project advisor for Bangladesh Bank.
10. Proiect Relationships
l0.i     Relationships under the project were generally cordial.
Exceptions included relations between the Bank and BSCIC, which were
strained because BSCIC was given no loan approval authority under the
project, and between the Bank and the Ministry of Industry. That Ministry
was not included in the project, which precluded dialogue.
11. Consulting Services
11.01    In all, 13 consultants (representing 122 staff months) were
provided to EPB, BSCIC, and ILT. Most of the consultancy months were
effectively utilized, and all the agencies were generally pleased with the
performahce of the consultants.
12. Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01    Project documents held in the IDA's files appear complete, the
three banks' accounts and other subproject records were easily accessible
to the PCR mission, and other implementing agencies were able to respond
quickly to mission requests for data.
12.02    A major problem with the information gathered by the banks for
credit decision-making and reporting was that it failed to produce good
loans. This may be attributed in part to the lending target orientation
that was the centerpiece of the investment component. Energy was spent
classifying subloan applicants and subborrowers by sector, location
(urbanlrural), by loan and asset size, for example, that could more
usefully have been directed at refining risk evaluation, assisting
subborrowers' efforts to obtain telephone service and power supplies,
trying to police misuse of funds, more rapidly identifying subsectors that
were becoming overcrowded by new entrants, and by adapting accounting
procedures to permit more effective subloan administration.
12.03    Quantitative data on subproject performance were not maintained by
the NCBs in the form used to appraise subloans. Sales, earnings, inventory
and asset estimates, for example, were not systematically gathered or
recorded on subborrowers following subloan disbursement, although this
information was projected in credit decision-making.



- 13 *
12.04    Subproject appraisal forms and documents reviewed by the mission
appeared dutifully filled out, but contained no provision for adjustments
for risk. Nor was specific assessment of risk required on these forms or
recommended by IDA. An entrepreneur's projected returns from a subproject
apparently were not compared with reasonable wage standards, although
insufficient returns relative to wages obtainable elsewhere might lead
owners to abandon a subproject.
12.05    Effective subloan administration was virtually impossible using
the loan accounting procedures of two of the banks, which were adequate for
traditional overdraft or line of credit lending but not for installment
lending. These banks use three-column loan ledgers, making it impossible
to raiae installments or directly to ascertain the extent of arrears or its
composition between principai and interest. Comparison of repayment
performance with those agreed in subloan contracts is cumbersome when
three-column ledgers are used. The third bank used nine-column ledgers
that permitted the raising of installments and easy calculation of overdues
and of interest collections. However, it calculated installments to
Include equal amounts of principal, plus interest on the outstanding
balance. In contrast, subloan contracts specified repayment in equal
installments consisting of variable proportions of principal and interest.
All three banks specified six-monthly instalments, while subloan ledgers
seen by the mission showed frequent, relatively small debt service payments
by those subborrowers who were active payers.
13. Lessons from the ProJect
13.01    The lessons offered by this project may be classified under two
broad headings. The first consists for project design issues, i.e., was
project design consistent with its objectives and appropriate for the
environment in which it was expected to function. The second broad heading
is project supervision issues, i.e., the effectiveness of IDA's response
following appraisal to assist those responsible for its implementation in
Bangladesh.
13.02    Proiect Design Issues:  It is now apparent that the amount of the
Credit was too large relative to implementational capacity. It was almost
five times the size of the preceeding credit and followed so quickly that
latent design problems associated w-.h SSI lending were overlooked. Term
lending to small firms, and especially to new small firms, is difficult and
requires skills and procedure!s different from those used for normal secured
short-term commercial bank leading to established clients (PCR paras. 1.21
and 1.52-1.55). The size of the project's credit component was greatly
expiaded from the US$20-25 million equivalent originally planned, in part
to maintain the pace of commitments achieved under SSI II.
13.03    Basing a successor project on commitments does not take into
account the rate of disbursement or subloan quality (paras. 1.16 and 1.52).
Projects providing term credit have a long tail that makes-it difficult to



- 14 -
know their condition during disbursement. This is illustrated by the
project: by 1983, half way between effectiveness and closing, subloan
commitments amounted to about 75? of eventual total commitments,
disbursements equalled about a third of the eventual total, principal
fallen due for repayment amounted to less than 32 of total disbursements,
and arrears of principal were about 22 of total principal disbursed
(Part I, Appendix 1, page 3, lines 225, 227, 234 and 250). It was apparent
that there were problems, but they remained small relative to other
magnitudes.
13.04    It is also clear that credit projects with design flaws or that
are not responsive to the environment in which they have to be implemented
can have severely negative financial ramifications for those tearing
subloan risk (paras. 1.38-1.42). Repayment discipline was generally poor
in Bangladesh at the time the project was designed (pars. 1.9) and remains
so. This should have given pause within IDA and led to focus on
fundamental questions: Could a credit project possibly be sustainable? If
so, what would be its maximum feasible size? What design innovations would
be required to manage risk effectively?
13.05    Moreover, the project was excessively complex.  It involved a
large number of institutions and objectives (paras. 1.21, 1.30), making it
difficult to supervise. Emphasis on lending targets crowded out concern
for subproject viability.
13.06    It is clear in retrospect that the NCBs would have had to achieve
unrealistically high levels of collections, approximately thrice as large
as those achieved. in order to have broken even on this lending. Given the
general credit environment and overall MCB collection performance,
expectations of break-even performance are and would have been unrealistic.
An effort to quantify the results of the banks' financial performance or
the project's net present value to the NCBs, using reasonable assumptions
about future performance, would have predicted large losses for important
nationalized financial institutions that were already fragile.
Consideration should be given to making such quantitative financial impact
analysis mandatory for credit projects, especially those operating in high
risk environments such as SSI operations.
13.07    An issue that is important for IDA strategy but for which the
project fails to provide definitive insights is the use of apex agencies in
project implementation, in this case the Industrial Credit Department of
Bangladesh Bank. On the one hand, a smaller project involving fewer
components and implementing agencies could have been more manageable, which
could have enhanced the performance of the apex while diminishing the need
for it. On the other, it is unreasonable to expect that an apex body can
overcome serious deficiencies in project design, or effectively monitor in
detail the extensive relationships and transactions between the NCBs and
their clients. Moreover, the apex formula has potentially serious
disadvantages when dealing with weak implementing institutions. An apex
agency may constitute a barrier to as well as a channel for direct IDA
supervision of the lending intermediaries.



- 15 -
13.08    Supervision Issues:  The second set of concerns raised by the
project is what might have been done by IDA following Board presentation to
enhance project perfonmance. The first lesson is that enthusiasm for
disbursement, which forces the pace of a project, does not necessarily
contribute to sustainability of project activities (para. 1.9 and Part II).
13.09    The second is that the risks of SSI lending in a poor credit
environment require extraordinary measures. These requirements may be
identified by the deficiencies exhibited by the project. A major problem
area was the lack of effective management information systems in the NCBs.
They had no systematic procedures for tracking and responding quickly to
the overall condition of subprojects. Individual loan officers and branch
managers may have been well-informed about their own portfolios, but this
information was not part of a management information system that could
aggregate and analyze experiencs and take timely corrective action.
13.10    The impact of this deficiency was especially acute in the start-up
phases of subborrowers' operations, when technical assistance, training and
supervision could have been useful in addressing problems when they were
still relatively small and when flexibility in lending terms and conditions
could have been particularly helpful. Judging and responding to the
performance of subborrowers primarily on the basis of their debt service
payments is insufficient because sustainable operations of subprojects are
a prior condition for sustainable banking relationships. Even this basis
for responding was compromised by the use of three-column loan ledgers,
which cannot show the repayment performance of the subborrower without
supplementary calculations. Emphasis on repayment and on subloan targets
may have diverted attention to effective monitoring of subproject
performance beyond the construction and subloan disbursement stage. So,
the possibilities for effective supervision were truncated. Clearly, IDA
should have devoted more resources to systems and procedures in the NCBs.
13.11    A third concern in retrospect is the quality of IDA supervision
from headquarters. It was erratic in timing (para. 1.45) but may have
included more visits, most of them fleeting, than recorded in Part III.
The voluminous reports filed often failed to highlight or prioritize
problems and the apparent absence of 590S may have diminished the
corrective opportunities that could have arisen from the numerical quality
rating procedures then in use. Supervision was often conducted by a single
IDA official, when the project and its problems demanded a broad range of
skills. Breadth of supervision was required by the sheer number of
agencies responsible for implementation, and depth was required in remedial
efforts.



- 16 -
PART I
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD SHALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 1065-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Activities and Performance of Agrani. Janata and Sonali Banks
A.       Project Management and Staffing
1.       The Project led to significant changes in the administratioi and
management of term loans to small scale industries in Agrani, Janata 'sad
Sonali Banks, which were the nationalized commercial banks (NCBs)
Implementing the project. New divisiorns and departments were created to
facilitate subproject appraisal, evaluation, implementation and monitoring.
A full-fledged Industrial Development and Finance Division was set up in
Agrani Bank and Industrial Credit Divisions (ICD) were set up in Janata and
Sonali banks in 1984. As of 1988, these divisions had the following number
of staff: Sonali, 52; Janata, 42; and Agrani, 39. Within tbese divisions,
Agrani and Janata have five departments; (a) Appraisal and Sanction;
(b) Implementation; (c) Special Credit; (d) Follow-up and Recovery; and
(e) Accounts, Statistics, and Data Feeding. Sonali Bank has two
departments: (a) Project Operation; and (b) Implementation and End Use.
Implementation of the project in the field was handled by PCI regional and
principal offices (ROIPO) and branches. The number of regional offices and
designated branches that administered the Credit was as follows: Agrani 31
and 47; Sonali 33 and 43; and Janata 40 and 31.
B.       Subloan Supervisions
2.       NCB branch offices were involved at all stages of the subproject
cycle. Branch offices received subloan applications and made preliminary
examinations. If preliminary investigation suggested it worthwhile to
proceed, the proposal was sent to a regional office or principal office for
techno-economic evaluation, sometimes with the help of staff from the Head
Office. A subproject commitment recommended by the ROIPO required approval
of the Head Office and of the Board of the lending bank.
3.       Subloan supervision was done mainly by branch offices.  The first
disbursement was made after the subborrower's equity was contributed,
usually to construction work. The supervising officer provided a
completion certificate for each stage of construction to facilitate
disbursement. The final completion of factory buildings was supervised, in
most cases, by engineers and other officers from Head, Regional and branch
offices. LICs were opened for procurement of machinery and equipment when
building was 50 complete. Banks examined the list of goods, helped to
clear goods from the port, and finally handed them over to subborrowers.
Branch officer were responsible for continuous supervision of installation.
Supervision visits were also made from the Regional and Head offices. At
the completion of installation and trial production, an Engineer and



_ 17 -
PART I
ARMX I1
Page 2
Pinancial Analysts from the Head/Regional Offices assessed the working
capital position of each subproject.
4.       After subprojects went into operation, designated branches
conducted monthly supervision and collected data from the subprojects for
their Regional and Head Offices. Monthly supervision reports focus on
subloan recovery, providing information on subproject capacity utilization,
achievement of production and employment targets, based on assessments made
by subborrowers. However, these reports did not examine larger aspects of
subproject financial viability. Quarterly sumaries were prepared by
ROIPO. Based on branch and RO0PO reports and on subloan coilections Head
Offices classified subprojects into three categories; (a) good,
(b) medium, and (c) bad. Extra RO/PO and Head Office supervision was
conducted for those projects with very low recoveries.
5.       Bangladesh Bank (BB) mainly concentrated on the subproject
pipeline and relied on status reports of the NCBs detailing lending
recovery, staffing and training positions. From these, BB prepared
quarterly reports for submission to IDA. 8B's views on low loan recovery
rates were commmicated to NCBs from time to time and NCBs were urged to
increase their supervision.
6.       Government's concern regarding poor recovery of overdues was
discussed in a meeting in the Ministry of Finance in April, 1986. It was
decided that NCB General Managers/Deputy General Managers would meet
subborrowers to solicit speedy recovery of overdues, and that Deputy
General Managers would visit such subprojects. In this drive, all NCBs
organized supervision cells. Officers of the ICDs of Head, RO/PO and
branch offices became members of this cell and made regular visits to
defaulting subborrowers to evaluate reasons for sickness and the
possibility for providing further financial assistance to increase their
financial viability. NCEs believe the supervising cells enhance loan
recovery performance. However, between 201 and 302 of subprojects are
considered sick from inception because of poor selection, inadequate
appraisal, and political and other influences.
7.       From the point of view of some subborrowers interviewed,
supervision was inadequate. They reported that delays in supervision
visits delayed disbursements which often increased subproject cost. Some
subborrowers were not provided guidance in selecting machinery and
equipment, which led to poor selections.
C.       Lenders' Implementation Profiles
8.       The three NCBe that made subloans supported by IDA funde in effect
implemented three different projects. Their activities can be
differentiated to demonstrate that within the project parameters their
strategies and performance differed markedly. These differences provide
insights beyond those available from review of overall project performance.
Their relative performance is summarized in the following tables based on
statistics presented in Appendix I. (There are minor inconsistencies
between these data and those given in Part II. These are not material and
could not influence conclusions regarding project performance.)



-18 -
PART I
ANKUX 1
Page 3
Table 1. NuXbers and Volumes of Subloans Issued, by NCB
Lending       Number of           Amount of Subloans
Bonk         Subloans       Approved           Disbursed
(Tk million)
Agrani          145             166                161
Janata          232             177                169
Sonali          301             259                249
Total       678            602                 579
Table 2.  Subloan Size Distribution, by NCB
Subloan Size Distribution (Tk 000)
Lending           Average          Up to     Tk 501    Tk 1,500
Bank         Subloan Amount       Tk 500   to 1,500   to 3,000
(Tk)               (Z of subprojects)
Agrani          1,106,896            12        68          21
Janata            727,025            47        44          9
Sonali            825,914            52        31         17
Average       852,168            4z        43         15
Table 3.  Average Capital Cost per Job, by NCB
Capital            'Jobs Created'
Lending Bank       Cost per Job       Total    pr-, Suplroect
(Tkc)
Agrani                60,140          3,581           25
Janata                48,100          4,500           19
Sonali                31,500         11.28            38
Average           40,650                          41
Total                            19,379
Table 4. Geographical Concentration of Subprojects
in Major Districts, by NCB
Major Districts
Lending Bank       Dhaka    Chittagong   Comilla    Subtotal
(Z of subprojects)
Agrani              52            4         5          61
Janata              58           11         8           77
Sonali              30            8         4          42
Total           44            8         6          58



-19-                            PARS I
AWN 1
Pagp 4
Table S. Concentration of Subprojects in
Major SSI Subsectors, by MCI
Lending     Food &              gngi-    Forest     Road       Sub-
Bank       Allied  Textiles  neerinR  Products  Transport  total
(Z of subprojects)
AgraAi        17       24        26         4         1         72
Janata        39       16        13        12         4         84
Sonali        47       18       I1          8         3        87
Total     38       18       15          8         9        82
Table 6. Collection of Debt Service Due Lending Banks
as of 30 June 1988
Cumulative                 Cumulative
Principal Billed           Collections
Lending           for Collection as           as Z of Debt
Bank             2 of Disbursements          Service Billed
Agrani                   33                         41
Janata                   46                         36
Sonali                   47                         29
Total                43                         34
Measures of Banking Performance
9.       These tables establish the profiles of each NCB's activities under
the project. The interpretation that follows is based entirely on the data
in the tables, not on other information or general impressions of the
performance of the banks concerned. Tentative lessons for the project may
be drawn from the experience of Agrani and Sonali, the banks at the two
extremes.
10.      Sonali Bank delivered the project that was closest to the ideal
represented in the staff appraisal report. It made the largest number of
subloans and the largest volume of disbursements (Table 1), with the
highest proportion of relatively small subloans (Table 2), at the lowest
capital cost per job (Table 3), least concentrated in Dhaka and the other
two most-favored districts (Table 4), with the highest concentration in
food and sllied products (Table 5) therefore relying on local raw
materials. But it appears to have scheduled subloan repayments to occur
relatively quickly and as of mid-1988 it had the most miserable debt
service collection ratio (Table 6) of the three banks.
11.      Agrani Bank was at the opposite extreme in most respects.  It made
relatively few subloans and had the lowest disbursements (Table 1), focused
its attention on the larger subloan size categories under the project,
thereby reporting the largest average subloan size (Table 2) with the
highest capital costs per j30 (Table 3). It achieved a relatively high



-20-                                PART I
ANNEX 1
Page 5
concentration in Dhaka and other favored districts (Table 4). Half of its
lending went to textile and engineering firms (Table 5) which posuibly add
more value, rely more on imports and operate in less competitive markets
than the food and allied products and the forest products industries in
which Janata and Sonali Banks concentrated. Agrani appears to have made
relatively longer-term subloans and it achieved the highest collection
ratio (Table 6.)
12.      These comparisons suggest, but do not necessarily prove, that the
project violated banking instincts and principless the bank that was most
responsive to the project's objectives has the lowest recoteries, while the
bank that was the least responsive (but fully within project parameters),
and willing to accept a longer exposure to presumably safer credit risks,
had achieved the best collections through mid-1988. Vhether this position
can be maintained as a larger proportion of Agrani's subloans fall due
remains to be seen. (December 1988 data received following the miseioans
departure suggest that Agrani's better collection performance may be
evaporating.)
13.      Collection of debt service billed is an important variable in
project evaluation because the project had both SSI sector and financial
sector objectives. Financial sector objectives were to provide partici-
pating banks with long-term funds that would enable them to lend long, and
to make them proficient in lending to small scale firms on the presumption
that this would have large economic and social benefits. The project's
objectives in terms of risk and replicability are not entirely clear. But,
the implication appears to be that, with the support of a credit guarantee
system operating on business principles, lending to small scale firms would
lead to sustainable commercial relationships that could be replicated
beyond the project.
Financial Impacts on Banks
14.      The construction of the model used to determine the financial
impact of the project on the NCBs is found in the tables in Appendix 1 to
'his Annex. They show the data for each bank and for all three banks
%igether, and are denominated in lakhs of Taka, or hundred thousands.
Lines of data fed into the model are denoted by asterisks (*), and the
remainder are derived from this base. Data are thought to be of reasonable
quality, but where ambiguities appear the analysis is based on the more or
most liberal interpretation. Most of the data base has been subject to
audit according to project terms and conditions, and relatively few
exceptions to accepted reporting practice were identified by these audits.
However, the banks could not provide detailed data originally requested,
requiring arilytical derivations such as those in these tables. The use of
year-end data introduces distortions into the analysis because positions
may change markedly during the year.
15.      Theie data also suggest that each bank implemented a different
project. Tables Al, Jl, SI and Ti show the extent to which the banks
committed their own funds to the lending process by making disbursements
for which refinancing from project funds was received later from the
central bank. This temporary coamitment, representing the difference



- 21 -                             PART I
ANNX  I
Page 6
between subloan disbursements and reimbursements from project funds, is
termed 'negative float."  Table 7 indicates that each bank incurred
considerable negative float during project implementation, which virtually
disappeared by the end of 1986 as refinancing caught up with commitments
and disbursements which were winding down as project funds became fully
used.
Table 7. Negative Float Committed by NCBs, 1980-1987
Lending                         as of 31 December
Bank        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
(Tk million)
Agrani        -0-    -0-    5.8   14.6    7.7   10.5   (3.5)   2.3
Janata        -0-  13.0    41.8  40.1   3e.7    1.1   (0.7)  (0.6)
Sonali        -0-  19.2    10.7   13.7   42.8   17.1   18.4    2.0
Total     -0-  32.2    58.4   68.5   89.2   28.7   14.2    3.7
16.      Questions raised by Table 7 include how at least two of the banks
were at times able to draw down more project funds than they had disbursed,
and why this position remained uncorrected in the case of one bank. The
small negative float remaining for the other two banks probably arose
because commitments and disbursements slightly exceeded project funds
available.
17.      Table 8 shows how the banks managed the flows that determined
their negative float. These flows consist of subloan disbursements and
reimbursements from project funds, which were made from the central bank
against reimbursement requests received from banks. These requests were
aggregated by the central bank and submitted to IDA, and,upon receipt of
funds from IDA the central bank reimbursed the NCBs. Table 8 shows that
Sonali Bank appears to have achieved the quickest disbursement-
reimbursement turnaround. Not too much should be made of these figures,
however, because the year-end positions are not necessarily representative
of the average situation for the year.
Table 8. Negative Float as a Percent of NCBs'
Cumulative Subloan Disbursements, 1980-1986
Lending                         as of 31 December
Bank        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
(X)
Agrani        -0-    -0-      78     48     10      9      (2)     1
Janata        -0-    100      73     41     27      1    ...    ...
Sonali        -0-     82      35     22     28      9       7      1
Total     -0-     89      62     36     24      6      3       1



-22 -                               PART I
Page 7
18.      The fundamental impact of a credit project on the lending
institution is the retained earnings or lose generated for the institution
by project activities. This impact is the sum of float from
disbursementireimbursement, of differences between repayment of project
principal and collection of subloan principal from subborrowers, of
interest paid on project funds and of interest collected from subborrovers,
and of project implementation administrative expenses.
19.      The data maintained by the  CBes do not facilitate easy, detailed
calculation of this effect, nor was it ever calculated by IDA. However,
some inferences of the magnitudes of project-induced losses can be derived
from the NCBes' data. These do not include estimates of administrative
expenses, which were not reviewed by the mission because their
incrementality could not be firmly established. Hence, the analysis
portrays only the financing flows, excluding tche costs of credit guarantee
coverage. These data as of the end of June 1988 are sumuarized in Table 9.
They show that the project materially absorbed the capital of the NCEs.
20.      In the appendix tables, the negative float from the disburse-
mentireimbursement process, the princ.;pal mismatch from the project loan
and scheduled subloan maturities, and the interest margin or hypothetical
net interest income arising from the difference on loan and subloan terms
are combined to yield the contractual sources or uses (negative numbers) of
the NCB's capital. This is the amount of capital that the project would
have absorbed from or generated for the NCBs if all subloans were repaid
exactly as scheduled. Reported arrears are added to the contractual
figures to obtain the actual sources or uses of the NCBs' capital.
21.      For the aggregate of the three NCBes as of the end of June 1988,
the negative float was Tk 3.7 million, the principal mismatch was a
negative Tk 26.8 million, and the interest margin was Tk 138.1 million,
yielding a contractual source of NCB capital of Tk 107.5 million. The
principal mismatch suggests that the project stimulated the banks to lend
longer than the terms on the project loan they received. However, reported
arrears turned this contractual source into an actual use of Tk 200.9
million as of the end of June 1988.
Table 9. NCB's Financing Positions under the Project, 30 June 1988
Lending              Cumulative             Project Uses of NCB Capital
Bank           Subloan Disbursements            as of 30 June 1988
(Tk million)
Agrani                  160                             52
Janata                 168                             64
Sonali                 249                             85
Project            579                            201



-23 -                               PART I
AMNX I1
Page 8
22.      (All data on uncollected amounts in the tables are the calculated
differences between scheduled and actual repayments of subloan principal
and payments of subloan interest. Hence, they may include rescheduled
amounts, arrears and any amounts written off.)
23.      The banks' capital positions related to project activities are
expected to worsen. This will occur as debt service on project funds
exceeds debt service payments collected from subborrowers. It is too early
to make precise judgments in this regard because, as Table 6 indicated,
only 43Z of subloan principal had fallen due under installment schedules.
However, Table 10 indicates that for each bank total collections do not yet
equal total interest due. In the aggregate, or treating each bank's
portfollo as if it consisted of a single loan, the NCBs have in effect not
collected any principal and have Tk 59.5 million (or Tk 217.7 million
interest due minus Tk 157.8 million total collections) in "interest
arrears' as defined for this illustration due from their SSI clients under
the project.
Table 10. Cumulative Interest Due from and
Cumulative Collections Received from
Subborrowers through 30 June 1988
Cumulative Subloan Interest      Total Collections
Lending Bank     Due from Subborrowers            from Subborrowers
(TTk million)
Agrani                    42.6                           39.7
Janata                   83.6                           57.7
Sonali                   91.5                           60.3
Project             217.7                          157.8
24.      The unlikelihood of improving principal collections was suggested
by a sample of subloan ledgers inspected by the mission, which showed
increasing balances outstanding as interest iebited ran ahead of
collections. This was a small sample that does not provide definitive
results.
25.      The same trend is suggested by the following graphs which show
cumulative subloan principal collection performance for the NCBs. In these
graphs cumulative collections of subloan principal are those reported on
the books of the NCBs, in contrast to the preceding paragraphs which
compare total collections to total interest due as if the portfolio of each
NCB were one large loan rather than a number of smaller loans. The
critical factor portrayed by these graphs is that incremental collections
are declining -- the collection curves have flattened in all cases. This
occurred in 1987 for Sonali Bank, which made 432 of project subloan
disbursements, and in the first half of 1988 for the others, before the
floods and hurricane hit. (Janata Bank rescheduled arrears in 1988, which
was accompanied by a decline in repayments by those already regayint,
possibly worsening the long run collectibility of its subloans.)



-24-                               PART I
ANNE 1
Page 9
26.      It is of course possible that these curves could break their
flattening trends and that collections would improve, but there is nO
reason to expect that they would necessarily do so. Some extraord9.nary
event or effort would presumably be required to reverse present trends;
project implementation history does not appear to provide a precedent for
actions that would sufficiently improve collections markedly or
permanently.
27.      Therefore, this report concludes that the NCBs' losses from the
project will eventually approximate or exceed the volume of project funds
they disbursed. The net impact of the project appears to be an eventual
loss of at least Tk 500 million (US$15 million) and possibly Tk 600 million
(US$18 million) by the banks that implemented the project. Some of these
may be recouped from Bangladesh Bank under the Loan Guarantee Scheme. But
as this scheme had never paid any claim., had no procedures for claims
adjustment processing of late 1988, and remains un-funded, it would be
premature to assume that the two WCBs that paid guarantee premiums will
receive indemnities any time soon.



- 25 -
PART I
AUEX I
Page 10
Graph 1. Cumulative Data on Key Project Fixmcing Flows
by NCB and for the Three NCBs
AGRANI BANK                              JANATA BANK
7k mLUlan                                   at miUlln
175                                         175
150                                         10D
4.a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
125                                         125
0                             0~~~~~~~~~ 
6/                                          6/
80        82   3  84  35  86  87 88         OD  E   82  83 84   85  86  8B
End o yaEr or period           aEndo ye ar orperld



- 26 -
PART I
AN= I
Page 11
Graph 1. Cumlative Data on Key Project Financing Flows
by NCB and for the Three NCBs
(continued)
SONALI BASKT iE THREE NCBs
TLt milli 4a,iui
600 ~ ~ ~ 4 
00
200                                         14/
IO                                          30D.--O.-                   _. ..
/616
10D                               270
50                                                        ay ar
6/                                          6/
OD81  &      8384  8586          8W88        80 81  828384  8586  8788
Ei4 of yew orperiod                          B   fyear or perOd



w                                                                                                                                         m
m                                        ABE Tn - U86  - aIL   06138  070I6T$  ANC RUWIN                                                    2
em                                                 1000    1961    193      liS       S      1       lw      116    lOSS  OI.T1            6
m    SOaW   OMsM1sES                               106.78  682.42 1011.64 1U".11  01".80924617  472.32    0.00    0.00  02.e9               8
on1       O1. SUWLA CW91       6T" O Ot1          108.78  971.18 MM1.7  448.90 t    00.40 554.06  06.96 gt M.48  85.           6.96 S1
on~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
an   ORe FtV                                        0.00      .68  8.26  070.9   76.06  1145.12  MS."   100.15    0.O0 5D .05              asS
6"       CUM. O_useIU tO OMI7                        0.00  86.s8   4.96 lt15."  867.65 482S.97  679  5778.0   77.0t 57O05                  ad4
12O_I6E06  CSSUfl41                          100.78  6.4? 1607.0  2518  1429.04  780.60 a40.00  248.9a  246.99  248.10               en
SW7       am. OM8. As   P a.".                                                                                                             0aWa#. (6) 0.0    57.8  8.6    48.2    60.0    06U.2 94.2    95.0    05.9    95.9  S6p
0o0  REFDI6W       01ED                             0.00   40.80  30.20  609.73 1836.41  1749.80  409.61  206.0;   0.00 5741-.0            80
0         OJt. W1161c34    81WM                     0.00   40.80  861.17  1230.90  27.01 486.09 68.00 P41.06  5741.08 5741.08              64
641                                                                                                                                        641
6s   UNJ. DMMB*4s TO OM                             0.00  8462.8  944.96  118.7  867.8.  468.07 8677.90  5.05 577.06  78.05                642
6U  Loss CU.  _A ECINO   EMD                        0.00   40.09  861.17 122.9  2787.81 46.809 3.CO b41.08 5741.08 5741.06                 64
644                                                                                                -       _-                              644
640  1UTI  wIWcs  FUIDT                             0.00  s2.7   836.7   64.8    91.6    w.          142.40   *6.97   88.97   30.97        64
6a"                                                                                                                                        645
647  cm. IlW. ED  As s or U. 0on.  )                 -       11.8    86.2    64.8    75.6    4.0    97.5    *9.4    90.4    9.4            "7
64t   DC. (M.) 3IM NTATIW  P36EF        FRANT       0.00  321.70   180.79  664.69   n."4    0.00  142.40   so.9"    8.7   86 .97           U9
am0       #TItW  P3        RD FLlt                   0.00  821.70  905.0 18W9.47 246s.01 2o."9  911.44 29.48 295.43  200.48                #20
6u1         F11W      AS 5 OF U  Nf . 0OM.           0.0    se.7    61.8    88.7    24.2       6.0     2.5      0.8     0.6     0.6        651
aS"am
as       -ju   12181 pH                                  DANCAEON                                                                          Su
0SW                                     TARLE 72 - ALL tB0W - LOW AN S.U#   RA6  SC1AL                                                     SW
es                                                       (IN ,A84 100,000)                                                                 as
4D0                                               ItEO     191    19        l9w0    19U     1165    100    1t97    106          T          UOATIV  86
661  _onsitS  Fat TM WV                             0.00  862.68  832.20  97o.80  17.IA  1145.12  030.9   100.18    0.00 5778.00           6o1
6n        CU. oL seen    YO DATE                    0.00  862.68  044.96  192.72 83.5 402.97 W67.90 50.06 SM.05 57.05                     862
Gu   ULO    PRICIAL P8113 Lw                        0.00    0.00   20.89  129.80  210.10   *01.  748.08  7.42  298.45 24M4.47              US
M         ON. Sa5       FRPCLAL FPAD1  0            0.00    0.00   20.80  142.19  332.47  680.4 .429.62 2192.06  248.4? 2<44.47            on
687  Cu. 3.3.. 02De. FALr  OM AS S WK. OM0.          -        0.0     2.2     7.4      0.6    14.2    88.2    87.9    48.0    49.0         U7
O8F9 UWCPOM 4CIMWt PAUlO WA                         0.00    0.00  s.68   68.00  210.06  49.0   785.8   M2.99  420.2  272.0                609
670      Co. RDWCP  0RJMC. FPAJI PE                 0.00    0.00    s.ee   6o.68  20.04  77.40 180.7* 232.n  2782.89 V2.S0                 670
0on         __          PWhs0  MISSATCH             0.00    0.00   10.70   36.00   -0..0 -162.29   10.70  -61.57 -27.69 -26-42            62
a7n       cU. L3060.3         . in. 810. 683        0.00    0.00   16.70   72.50   72.48   -9.06   -t".1  -140.73 -236.42 46.42           67
T74                                                                                                                                       674
675                                                                                                                                        675
e7e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~?
077                                                                                                                                       677
Ba~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
679    20-Jam   12:51 PM                                 VIN0.ADI6I                                                                       en
so                                      TAKLE TS - ALL ON - LaW AD  *L&LMINIMV JSCH1                                                       slO
S1                                                       (IN TM" 1o0.000)                                                                  a
Ms                                                 1900    1961    192    21968    1964    lw        10      1967    190"  089.4*1         on
Su   IIN.  DIN IT P81.14 WUE                        0.00    0.00   26.80  112.85  206.78  212.44  66.05   M.91   0.09 27.42               am       0  * 
CU. 3336  161    FOlUO WE                 0.00    0.00   26.88  180.60  80.80  55.77 1224.42 1966.=  2177.42 2177.42            as
OW      3681l3  IM?T PM        OMW                  0.00    0.00    0.e9   28.94   69.s3  144.17 s2.6     17.71   08.76   e.ar
M         M.  3r1030 VW. FP4.3 WE                   0.00    0.00    0.e9   24.68   04.16  286.68  400.27  687.t8  7ro.74    74            as
a"   I_.   .             M       %016               0.00    0.00   25.68   68.81   18.250   07.6 477.3%  80.20    L2.8    8.6              9o0
61           CUM. Le.          W. Dt.  10           0.00    0.00   25.6   118.97  249.17  016.66  19.1$ 1208.8  16.68 10.6                 W
on8                                                                                                                                       698
094                                                                                                                                       6u
6n                                                                                                                                        6n
on                                                                                                                                        SW



t
-       -l.bn  112t:1 m                                  PLA.W                                                                             862
J                                       TAUB A4 - A40M  WIM -  0W1WWL P;RtFCL0 RO                                                          Si
864                                                      (34 TANA* 100,00)                                                                864
US                                                196C   1IO1    1962    low        194    19s8    116    167    16  CmA.tw               86
Off  WgQ/?DWC1    PRlCtPA. NIU                      0.00    0.00  -0.00  04.2   -462   -60.    -25.11  -40.91  -11.12 -147.3              87
aCm. WoG.4 r             . pRU. IISCH@t            0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.82   -t34   47.8*  -".01  -18.68  -147.95 -147.93           so
JnL IW ISNT    62801                                0.00    0.00    0.00  o.98    7.09   4.02   74.59  112.06   19.09   0.70              87
871      C08. &in.PEPIN. DEl. WOI                   0.00    0.00    0.00    2.90    9."9    1.97   71.58  1086.1  207.70  207.70          871
878   &Wgo ninw m PM. M01i  a Dl. suOn              0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    2.27  -70.44 46 ,-  71.14    7.97   50.7              an77
874       CM. LUS0M0  84 NISC1'  a t. WlRO    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    4.65   -5.84  -19.86   31.7*   39.73   39.73                874
878  DC. (VW.) IN IITIW PVCUU KT                    0.00    0.00    8.68   87.64  49.02   27.07 -140.06   68.15    0.00   22.80            7
sn?           1   RIUC     FLOAT                    0.00    0.0    8.68  148.47   78.0b  104.62  -W.26   22.89   22.89   22.89            87
879  CITR4UAL MAT SOUNM  OF AGw  CAPITAL            0.00    0.00  -86.68   6-646   71."9  -98.48  186.36   12.99    7.97   86.86          879
M6        CUN.   E'L FMI7   OP .66U? CAPITAL        0.00    0.00  40.68 -144.09  -72.20 -170.6    1SM    2.89    86.86   86.86            880
US                                                                                                                                        US
J7TEA:IS ID UST                                                                                                                           8110
MS    U8-Jh   12:81 P6                                   00UL                                                                             886
887                                     TAOLZ A-$-. A#  SAW--*CTUAL PORTFOLIO R6.AT                                                       a87
Use                                                      (IN TMW(  100.000)                                                                S
0                                                 @1960    ti1    1962    I'm8    194    1986    19"        19?    198   T.6 ETIW        8CO
Jet a           WOJUCl    AC     tM) WM CAPTAL    0.00    0.00  -3.68    6.44   71.69  -9.46    8.88   12.9            7.97    6.86       89
8M2      CO. CWTL  .RJ. $OUN   (3) I= CAPTAL   0.00    0.00  -e8.e8  -14.09  -72.20  -1.             1.90   5.89    8.86   86.66          892
894  DC. IN TWAL MOlD OO                            0.00    0.00    0.00    7.94   22.1t    7.88  181.80  2aa.42  18.62  M6.96            894
M   TOTAL WM IbOU                                   0.00    0.00    0.00    7.96   80.09   87.42  18.72  427.14  36.96  M6O.96            8
897  46WL seru  sFWI  oI A a CAPITAL                0.00    0.00  -86.68  -96.40   49.74 -106.79   88.1  44.4a  -125.85 -324.10           897
US       ON. DCW  M= OF   48I CAPTL                 0.00    0.00  48.68  -168.08 -102.29  -2.06  -168.62  48.25 -684.10 -84.t10           8
400                                                                                                                                       400
401                                                                                                                                       401
t.4



2"                                                                                                                                           W2D
*16                                                                                                                                          216
21?                                                                                                       9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17
215    28-en  22t81 64                                                                                                                       219
21421
32                                       ALL MM  - 601.A3 PORTLO DATA BAE (SDIT 1068"                                                        22
z3                                                        (IN TAS 100.000)
2m8                                                low    1961    192    1968    1464    146          1466    1467    196   OI6AATZV         go
- .8um"  chTh                                      106.78  86.42  1611.64 1U-11    7.59  2"4.17  472.82    0.00    0.00 66.946 
225           CWfIIIWS TO OATE                     106.78  9r1.1  262.79 4480.90 s649 84.So 60.46  66.. 6 .98 602.e                         go
.018584S9475 FMR VWB                                 0.0  862.6s  862.28  970.88  1768.06  148.12  6.9O 100.1C 0.00  778.06                  22
22           OlULATraE D      _IW S475               0.00  82.66  s44.96  11.   867.8  462.47 8 .40 8M7C    778.   3 .00 S778.06             227
228      UNDIWIULS  CO fIITS                       1OB.78  B41.15 1887.68 2618.11  629.64  780.69  849.06  248.931  246.93  246.98           228
2M9      0. 0126. AS S OF CUI. coSSTITm  (5)          0.0    87.8    86.6    48.2       9.8    86.8    94.2       0.9    98.9      6.9       229
2M8   d80 D  600.S41 PRIMPAL OISMWIDO                0.00  862.68  699.97  14.96 S62.61 489.95 8198.67 80.69 4959.24 4959.24                 220
2M61  .SWL   663.*U   DETUST 0U78T5111              0.00   21.68   68.6   291.22  SM. IS  t47.11  186.87 32.07  Md. 13 26.18                281
M2           SCHIJED TOTAL OUTSTANDI TO  l80         0.00 8O 4.88  98.6  2186.18 4167.94 8741.06  688.24  7294.7t  7515.87 715S.87           22
2M8   D4M32     SU3A0W PAPCWAL FALLMO OWE            0.00    0.00   20.89  t12.60  210.2B  32.07   746.06  762.42  292.48 246.47            23
264           60A6e OM. 3U134. AN. FAU     OUE   0.00    0.00   20.89  142.19  882.47  668.4 142.62 2192.0  2464.47 2464.47                  284
2J5  *60ILW   SULON  DIUSi.T fPAD.  OME             0.00    0.00   26.88  112.28  264.78  212.44   9.65  781.9t  191.09 2177.42             285
2Je          SOW.8  GM. SUUI. w1r. PALL.O OM    0.00    0.00   26.85  136.60  848.8   8M.77 14.4n  1166.38 2177.42 2177.42                   2S6
297  80.L60  S001.0*8 ISAVIS PALLM OLE               0.00    0.00   46.74  284.06  415.01  8U8.51  1444.7S  144.88  488.62 41.69             287
28            SWE. GM4. SL4W Dt SVC FALUI  OE   0.00    0.00   46.t4  28.7  8ff9.0D  12.31   4.04  4176.87  4681.89  461.89                 236
2s9  s923A19L COUJLLAC=G 5r0   a       _8UR          0.00    0.00    2.77   24.48   67.19  182.78  250.42  2M6.18   47.u1  81S.87            2s9
240           0M. 9140. CM.L. MM 91360086            0.00    0.00    2.77   27.22   94.41  ZV7.16  485.18  771.88  818.67  618.67            240
241   *rs47T 0OLEU sr 923  SOCARNM                   0.00    0.00    6.88   16.94   89.98   80.02  24 S0  248.00  189.1S  758.67             241
242           031 14. C"U. MM 8W0806A3               0.00    0.00    5.a8   22.27   62.20  142.22  876.62  619.2  788.67 a88.6?              242
24   TOTAL 88..870  .-. 6131415                      0.00    0.00    6.10   41.89  107.12  212.17  492.S2   29.16  186.65  177.84            248
244           04. cOWM1r  561 136RR808               0.00    0.00   8.10   49.49   16.81  869.86  61.70  190.88  1S77.84 177.S4             244
248  CU4. 5.01 FRU4WL C". LTRATIO M                   -       -       18.6    19.1    26.8    68.2    28.9    85.2   98.0    88.0            248
24   CU4.  N104 IWTST COLLEWrIr RATIO (S)             -       -       20.2    16.1    16.1    25.6    80.0    81.2    84.6    84.6           246
247  CU4. 3 aN OSr SRVIM CaLL. RATIO (                -       -       17.8    17.6    22.5    29.6    82.1    88.8    88.6    88.6          247
24B D1Mr CaLL. AS S OF TOTAL CMLL Or                  -       -       68.6    40.9    37.8    87.6    47.6    45.9    74.5    48.1           246
249  0M. COLL. As S OF 084.  LN3  14. CtJ (E)         -       -       80.7    88.7    46.6    6.8    66.7    70.0    72.4    72.4           249
2S0     U     _08' PASKIPAL tCOU         '-          0.00    0.00   17.62   118.06  246.40  861.20  716.88  8s.68  768.60 166.S60           280
261  D1. (0Om.) IN  a      _S4mS  "me.  OLL8cTUE      -      0.00   17.62   96.44   188.84    4.80  8J5.68   186.8  -107.06  766.60          25t
2s2    a     _mOR   11475 DnSs WIC08TED              0.00    0.00   21.02  111.22  246.6i  837.42  717.02  927.48  638.03 1418.75           252
268  DC. (Om.) IN   S      _o814' Mr.  40.L1erD       -      0.00   21.02   90.20  186.59   90.61    0.20  209.6  -294-42  688.0o            2s8
264             a    _R1kVN' TOTAL U.4COLLEC         0.00    0.00   22.73  142.27  276.0   67.8  1201.81 1475.51  1804.29 2702.42            254
25   D1C. (00.) Di 6159088 TOTAL 001.87               -      0.00   22.78   119.54  188.78  271.6    88.906  174.20 -171.22  1804.29        255
2    *TWAL r1Pi   OV5LE                              0.00    0.00   S8."4  221.80  889.19  669.8  e2s.34 2787.49 8064.835 86.8              2S6
2S7  DIC. IN TOAL aEORTSD OVE                        0.00    0.00   86.64  192.66  807.69  88.74  982.41  965.18  296.86 3064.88            287
2SI   252I64CIN0 RDEW                                0.00   40.89  820.28  869.78  156.41  1749.5   96.61  206.S8        0.o00  741.00      258
289          CU4. Rur56 CP    I YEIvw                0.00   40.89   Ml1.17 1t0.90 2787.81 4686.69 5f6=.s0  6741.0  S6741.06 5741.06         259
2e0    C. (M.) VN ITIVI         CD48ti FLOAT         0.00  821.79  262.00  101.10  26.68  -804."4  -44.88  -.43    0.00   36.97             260
261          tMATIft P12D4014 FLOA'T                 0.00  221.79  868.79  684.89  891.84  287.06  142.40   86.97   86.97   86.97           261
262          IMTlW F.OAT AS S OF 084. 018.           0.00   68.78   61.78   88.75   24.28    S."        2.S1    o.6      0.64    0.64        2
268  .&DIM401N0 FARICIAL P41.1114 OL                 0.00    0.00    8.66   66.00  210.38  493.86  785.18  Sg8.99   420.12 2782.89          268
264          0UN. mFDWCIN  PARC. PA.IN   E OM        0.00    0.00    8.86    6.    260.04  77.40   06Sa.78 28.77  2762.8  2782.64           264
6UM. 6.u0*  FI CAL. AS W OP 
26"              084. RFVi. PMI. FALLINM OLE         0.00    0.00   75.68   89.00   88.71   29.87   82.16   83.07   20.75   29.75           2"6    4     '-
267  L38     RtI4NCING PROCVIAL 14158T04             0.00    0.00   16.78 a6.80   -0.10  -162.29   10.70  -61.67  -127.69 -268.42           267
28            08M. Lm.A". P           1O4184         0.00    0.00   18.78   72.8s   72.4   -9.#6  -7".1S  -140.78  -286.42  -268.42         2ev
so  O$llW4 DG Vag=  PALLD4 OLE                       0.00    0.00    0.69   2.94   69.8  1 44.77  221.4  227.71  t10.76  796.4              269
2:0          CM. 1511 3  WiT. FALLD  IXE             0.00    0.00    0.6    24.6e    4.16  286."9  480.27   687.48  79.74  76.74            270
27   W821m/1W1MIS0II 114755 9                        0.00    0.00   25.6    68.81  10.20   47.67  477.81  504.20   82.=  IO.60.             271       _
gm2C20. Ws./7Rom. Va4. WA=                          0.00    0.00      .68   1183.97  249.1T  816.84  794.15  126.88  18M0.86  16.           272
VS  L38INO/14. F914. rU4aT04 NO Mr. 1A251            0.00    0.00   42.89  144.11  188.10  -4.62  488.01  442.68  -48.86 1112.26            278
274          C84.  L./WI. 4686T04 A K4t01            0.00    0.00   42.89  8t6.80  821.60  226.96  714.   1157.62 1112.26  U12.26           274
275   LWRCWA. SUL3W 921140L O2TSTAMDT1               0.00   62.8   424.87 1798.9  246.87 4492.90 491.62 8015.6  5488.62                     278
278  AVE. 64RAt6CMLOL SLU6.    FRI4. OUl7T4rODII      -    181.84  64.68  1889.2B 2681.28 8160.74 4712.86 4978.78 5250.68                   27e
W27   6UITM1NG FN * 1  OSNT                          0.00  862.68  968.21 199.79  8661.25 494.48  891O.84  884.14 862.21                    277
276  AtE. 6UFSTMAN      FAIN . W14 VIOS               -     8.84  662.98 1461.60 29.52 4862.64 S2.49 8922.84 S768.1                         276
279   W4. ML. AS S O AVEL  ar'L 9C. OUITDO            -       0.0     0.8      1.2     1.8      2.0     8.0      4.9     8.8                279
290  14. C88.L. A6 I OF AVW.  14 114 OVER0          -       0.00    0.80    1.14    1.87    1.68    4.82    4.10    4.68                   290
261 24M 11t um.r SWAM OF MM' CAPITAL                0.00 -=22.79  -219.61   48.01  -71.58  S0.84  682.64  848.06  -48.8   178.29            28
M2       086. 4 1CTL PMFAA     OF s8     CAPITAL    0.00  -82.79 -841.40 -9.ae  -6.4   -W.10  82.59  1128.6   176.29 S08.29 
M68  47C    .L4   81     OP WfI# CAPITAL            0.00 -821.7  -258.25 -144.68  -9."4  179.10 4119.72  -411.09 -42.22 -2009.06   tS
284      Om. 4648L   S  aCNF "Cob# CATAL           0.00 -821.79 -860.04 -72.69 -1109.18 .40.08 -1249.75 -166.64 -2009.06 -209.06           24
us                                                                                                                                          265
286                                                                                                                                         25



259~~~~~~~~~~~~ 29
190    U-.he    12:51 FM6                                  mUSLAu                                                                              29
19                                       TAE Al  A_6  1W lt- *160  @8S7WWS  08638, AM WI)J,CP                                                  291
m                                                          (e TMS U100,000)                                                                    292
an                                     iuio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00    196  1062    196o    1964    1966    aess    196  Iva   0.36A.TI  296
an        M meow   auuns                             10.70   110.86   9.02   26.44    ol  147.81   0.00    0.00    0.00  1663.25               295
g$        @am. 8L6518 Common To we                   20.70  201.06 1186.10  140.51   251.9  1682   IM.2  U1.25 16.25    68.25                  26t
20?                                                                                                                                            07
c n _ OISm     rSn  6tVW                              0.00    0.00   75.OD  2.0C   40.00  471.00  202.00    oe.0o    0.00  1605.001            a
I99       Cl@. D16s61S TO DM                          0.00    0.00   7.O0001.0    6.00 12.0eo 180.00 1606.00 1606.001 16.O0                    29
no0                                                                                                                                            800
an01    _   Dn    W91 1U38                           20.70  201.08 11.10  12.5   72.U   41.25    7.25   5.25  5J.25   56.25                    301
802       on. one. As U OtF ol. WHaPmTs   )            0.0     0.0      6.5    21.8    40.7    73.6    90.5    96.8        9.5     w.5         sa
8t4 l     MCDS       V                                0.00    0.00   16.8   140.16  81O.    448.06  42.06   40.65    0.00  1oo.11             304
806       8O6. I366CD O[ mm                           0.00    0.00   16.87    6.S6  876.15  119.18  1541.26  1M2.1   1.11  1812.11             80S
80f   @86. 08O55U61   To D47                          0.00    0.00   78.00  804.00  7.00 1".00 1o06.00, 1 .00, 1005.00  1605.00                807
S6  LUMS OJI.  IDWCDS $19MM                           0.00    0.00   15.87   18.6     58.1f  1119.11  1541.26  1542.11  1862.11   .11          8te
81   611tw  wD c36O FAt                               0.00    0.00   5_.68   148.47   76.66   104.62  "85.26   2289   22.69   22.69            310
a11                                                                                                                                            511
812  @". mIIE.         1  AS I OF 60.  m.              -       -       21.8    51.7    W9.8    91.4   10.8    96.5    ".8    96.6              812
W1                                                                                                                                             318
814  De3. (M.) I)6 lt1W t              .              0.00    0.00   86.6    6.64  -6.9.62   27.97 -140.0         6.15    0.00   22.t9         814
s1        IZUT2  PDW6CIN  810t                        0.00    0.00    a.6s   4.4?   7.66   10.4.2  45.2          22.09   22.89   22.89         8u
816       OTIT    85r A 5* OtF CL881. 06.             0.00    0.00   78.17   48.84   10.21    8.86   -2.84    1.48    1.45    1.43             S16
at?                                                                                                                                            BIT
S1i                                                                                                                                            alI
621    2-Jon  12:51)6 PM                                      J8UAM                                                                            an1
11                                       YAKS A2 - 42t56 WM - U0N NO SALOAN W*.41            KCOA2 an22
#W                                                         (6 *IAWAS 100,0D0)                                                                  1                    0
624  ..24
s                           _^1900    1951    16    1la                               l"4    lw        $V6     1W       19S  0AATIVI           M
Mtl:l     in6      FtR ttE YEt                        0.00    0.00   75.00  22.00  40.40  471.00    .00    99.00    0.00  106.00,              S82
IW        am. 01853665 ToDMbAE                        0.00    0.00   78.00  80.00  75.00   .o0 1t0.o00 1606.00, 1I6s.00,  6.00                  27
9  6U106 P6ICWAI FALLIP OlE                           0.00    0.00    0.00    S.9   2.20   48.09   146.17  206.70  111.2           1.66       no9
1W        CUM. aIOLm 9t328.L   F       .3 O          0.00    0.00    0.00    8.39   25.67    8.76  214.98  420.68  651.6  531.86               M
an                                                                                                                                             an1
M                                                                                                                                               M
8t4  yTDv llC    D6Cl  Fd. .6 OE                      0.00    0.00    0.00    8.91   27.10  106.56   174.2   246.61   12.85  6.61              854
Su        CUt.   36DWIMI C. PPRM   6LD  EtO           0.00    0.00    0.00    5.91   81.01  186.8?  810.86  557.46  6.1   679.6l               35
SW           .  a9R3362ft628pv0                       0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.52   -4.62  -2.47   2.11  -40.91  -11.12  -147.95              887
M         0a. L3DDIN)M. 99D16. I6T01                  0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.52   -5.84  -47.1   48.92  -18.68  -147.95 -147.95   a 8s
4,0                                                                                                                                            340
841                                                                                                                                            561
an                                                                                                                                   .         442
an                                                             - .044 1                                                                          3     6
S45                                       TAN  AS -t AOM  U@EE -S LM AN SULMtIMTS
846                                                        (IN T7W   tOD,O                    246                                                      t ID IM
W4                                                                                                                                             34?
so                                                   M * W   1        90 aa  am  am   a        a        am        w      Swe  01UATV           a"a  _
849    SL   33..6  2NV7 8613  PA                      0.00,   0.00    0.00    4.35   18.84   81.6  S1.    1.78   52.56  425.6                  49"
860       0SA1  0CM. SLUM DiTt PAS.L6 DUE    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.85   21.89   8b.9   190.S7   87.54  42.16  40.66                        850
1W    .56536  3w61    rMUlS SE                        0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48    9.75    9.O    42."    70.70 48.25  215.16               an
Ms        @86.   3v606. _  )3 W. rI.L3  sE            0.00    0.00    0.00    1.85   11.40    1.St  114.25  1l4.011 216.1   208.1              an
No  W U 31                           Dl               0.00    0.O0    0.00    2.90    7.09   -6.0    74.59   U2.05   19.09  207.70             as
M5        CuN. as.FDtm . S6W. Weso                    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.90    o.99       1.97   78.86  16.61  207.70  207.70 
6BP                                                                                                                                           W57



#O
an                                                                                                                                         an hu  #Oe0
86                                      TAMA3 A4 - A*N1 834W - CONTRACTUIL PWETPOUO FL.DT                                                  mO
864                                                      (IN 741  100,000lo)                                                               a"6
856                                                1980    1981    1962    1968too           9  1*2  1                       t 1" 1  tAW   an
WV7                     50INP FAL HIVWM             0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.82    4.W  4.2.47  -26.11  -40.n       - -11.12 -14.95      85?
Soo       am4. LS./ftsDW. P1C. NWST10               0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.82   4.34  .47.1   -96.92 -1U.Sb -147.95 -147.95             M 
870   W      W         O 2TI O114                   0.00    0.00    0.00    290    7.t9   4.02   74.69  112.05   19.09  927.70              0
871       0.34. LO./W    . DIW. Wo*N                0.00    0.00    0.00    2.0    9.9    1.97   76.5   15.61  20770   207.70              s7
872                                                                                                                                        872
878  LDCDC/wDgvw4  623. 34*7a  aN. o*03D    0.00o   0.00    0.00    2.86    2.27  -70.49   46.4a   n.14    7.97   $9.75                    ST5
574       0U4. U0/WfrA FM NI8I*704 IMr. MM          0.00    0.00    0.00    2.8       46.6  -.84  -10.86   81.78    9.75   59.75           74
w6  Dec. (0g.) TX 11   IW  PDWCIIS 34.8             0.00    O.00   56.68   87.84  49.62   27.97  -140.06    6.15    0.00   02.89           87
877       fWTI   FSJC1  34IAT                       0.00    0.00   50.68  146.47   76.8   104.aa  .4.g5   229   92t.1    92.80            877
879  CMAc*2ML. 620.WT UIRCW OPr *945 CIPITAL        0.00    0.CO   -m.s  -45.46    n.69  -9."   18.s5   12.            7.97   8S6J         an79
M         OCM. CW'L FRO  RC  OF   634 C0911AL       0.00    0.00  -8.60  -144.09  -72.20 -170.6    15.90   2.6.9   86.86   85.6            SW
864    11-,84S8  lt
867                                     TA.B A-:  *034 8362-CItL P          l FOUO  OT                                                    J57
M                                                        (DI                                                                               M 7 ,000)  a
869                                                                                                                                       50
8W0                                                160    91Z    196        116     194    196       19      196     195   0ITI           890
891                                                                                                                                        anWl WJI CE (USE) N: C L    0.00    0.00  .15l   * .46   7109  40  .  12.9    7.97  .  8n
892      08. 04#f'L 62.. SSC  (5ES) N  CBAPITAL  0.00    0.C0  -55.56  -144.09  -72.20  -170.5    1.90   26.6    8.8    868 W             1
894  D14. 34 TOIAL REIIDO ICl                       0.Q0    0.00    0.eo    7.94   2.1.t      7.8   181S.80  2lil.42  185.82  560.9       t944-
t9t  lTOTL    lF   095S                             0.00    0.00    0.00    7.94   80.09   87.   186.7   4271   560.96  660.9             895t
89630
897  IUL P TSDasO *02*  CAITaAL                     0.QO    0.00  -85.68  -95.40   49,74 -10.79   85.26  -268.4  -12.85  -62.10           897
89       04 86134.  511  P 04CPIA                   0.00    0.00   O.566   -15.05 -12.29  -0.00 -16.62  4625   -W.tO  -52.10              8
401                                                                                                                                       401
SW
,_ 28 r -
WU
Mrw.1



2                                                                                                                                       2
4                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
a                                                                                  ,MADUW                                               6
7                                     AANI 9AW - SMW4 PrFOLIO 0AT* BASE (atWs 108-0)                                                    7
a                                                     (IN TMA  00,000)                                          Aje                    6
9                                               1960    1981    1962    1968    1981    1985    196      1M       1968   C9ATIE         9
10   VIffU m 064W  a s16                          20.70  180.88  953.02  2M9.4   90.3   147J.2      0.00    0.00    0.00 1863.2         10
1           CMlIIEtS TO DATE                     20.70  201.0    5.1O 142*.54 151.9  1668.20  1663.25 L6.25 166   1668.25               11
12  $01R004T POR WEAR                             0.00    0.00   78.00  22.0o   40.00  471.00  262.00   99.0o    0.00 1605.00           12
is          0.ILTI   0135SET8                     0.00    0.00   75.00  806.00  7.00 124.00 1506.C0 1605.00 1606.00 1605.00             is
14     I*SIUS85D  CrwNTs                          20.70  201.08 1061.10 112.64  762.93  489.2   17.25   58.2S   56.25   ss.25           14
a      CUR. 038. AS S OF CUM. CftSIMS (5)          0.0      0.0     6.5    21.     49.7    7.6    90.5    6.s        6.5s    9s.5       1S
16   901MY&M131846 PRDCIAL QUISWWO0               0.00    0.00   75.00 so3.00  741.89 tu17.40 1366.74 1889.69 169.75 136.75             1
V7  .S0a.L2D DUtl   136ETl  U!5TINO        D      0.00    0.00    0.00    5.86   41.41  177.60  314.83  512.74   22.05  622.0s          17
is          S0A.U5  TOTAL VI   INDto TO SUIOU5    0.00    O.OP   75.00  so8.ss  763.00 1853.00 1701.57 1902.43 1991.60 1M1.80           1
19 OSaE.AW SLUMh PRCAl. PALLINO VWE               0.00    0.00    0.00    8.39  92.26   48.09  146.17  206.70  111.23  531.6s           19
20          SODASON. SIN. PRDt. PAlL   VWM   0.00    0.00    O.0o    8.39   25.67   68.76  214.93  420.63  8a1.86  531.86               20
21  .s0l29 3.8  I?   PArLIN us9                    0.00    0.00    O.O     4.3S   146.64   31.s5  137.55  162.76   S2.34  425.88        21
22          60DA.9 CA. 9M. VEr. FPLLN  OlU   0.00    0.00    0.00    4.56   21.39   53.24  190.79  373.S   425.88  425.66               22
25  SOD1.  t3L-4 OMT SWVICE  ULM OR                0.00    0.00    0.00    7.94   39.12   74.94  263.72  386.4S  163.57  957.74         28
24          804M. CIO. fiLM CET SCPA FLLI  OUE   0.00    0.00    0.00    7.94   4?.06  12.00  406.72  T74.17  957.74  O57.74            24
20  *MRCVAL Cd R    0 1   FROM r U ..W.            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.41   37.19   70.66   96.0S   20.00  235.81         25
26          CM. FRIC. COL. FR tlM SLU68MAIU       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00 1o.41   46.60  119.26  215.31  235.31  285.31            26
27  *INV*WT COLaWT        FMRO1   RN  R0.00    0.00    0.00    0o0    S. 586   0.42   81.76   33.98    9.75  161.47                     27
28         C08 INW. CU. FR80 SI _OUWP             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.86   35.98  1V.74  151.72  161.47  161.47           28
go  TgTft CWAL=U8G FR> S_ 8DROM                   o0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.9?   67.61  182.42  180.03   29.?7  S39. 7         29
s0          CM. COa 6TINS P806                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.97    4.58  937.00  a67.0e  80.78  396.78           30
81  CM. SWLOLW FRDPAL C        IO RATO (S)         -        -       -       0.0    44.4    70.7    55 8. 1.2    44.2    44.2            31
8t  CM.  6tAOA  VErT COL.BTOM RATIO ()                                      0.0    26.0    67?.     61.7    40.6    37.9    37.9        32
8s  CM. 6MU OU  T SWVICE'.LL. RAO (O               -        -       -M      0.0    36.1    69.8   58.4   46.2    41.4    41.4           e8
84  Iwnt  COIL. AS    P TO    CLT                  -       -        -       -      82.e    45.0    S8.6    2.1.   82.6    40.7          34
88  OM. COLL. AS S F0 CM. we   Mr. OM              -        -       -       0.0    79.s   165.9   124.2   96.8    98.2    98.2          35
8e  _1.9O06S' PRICIPAL  0C0LCATM                  0.00    0.00    0.00    8.89   10.87    5.90   75.51  109.65   91.28  296.ss          36
87   NC. (M.) IN VIBbinAS' PRIC. 1SCOILT8          -      0.00    0.00    8.80    7.48   -4.97   69.81   34.14  -18.42   91.23          37
3s     _     sNDWOVAM'  Dolovar WNCLUMM           o0.00    0.00    0.00    4.55   11.29    1.43   55.79  14S.77   42.S9  284.41         a8
39  M. (M.) IN                INDl?. VT.COLtU1     -      0.00    0.0o    4.86    8.78   -9.85   34.86   92.98 -306.18   42.S9          39
40          SWSOUOWS TOTAL INCOUTa                0.00    o.0o    0.00    7.94   92.18    7.s8  181.80  956.42  18.82  183.82           40
41  De. (OM.) IN a_      Nio TOTAL 1820LL91        -       0.00    0.00    7.94   14.21  -14.92  128.97  1V.12 -124.60  113.92          41
42  *TOTAL 8a901  O89R9E.                         0.00    0.00    0.00    7.94   80.09   87.42  1tS.72  427.14  560.96  560.96          42
43  DC. IN TAL REi   ORS                          0.00    0.00    0.00    7.94   22.18    7.88  131.80  2.42  133.82  660.96            43
44  .R1MOCIND RC9                                 0.00    0.00   16.S7  140.16  819.62  448.08  422.06   40.65    0.00 1662.11          44
48          CII. WDIcP  REVED                     0.00    0.00   16.87  1".85  876.18  1119.16  141.26  162.1  16.11 1562.11            45
46  DIC. (OM.) DN IATtE FDWICD  FLOAT             0.00    0.00   S6.6t   B7.84  -89.C2   27.97 -140.e0  s6.15    0.00   22.89           46
47          NEW  FPDWC     FLOAT                  0.00    0.00   68.63  14.47   76.85  104.82  -35.26   22.89   22.89   22.89           47
4e          t=Nv6 fWA I S  OF cCM. CM.            0.00    0.00   78.17   48.34   10.21    8.88   -2.84    1.48    1.43    1.43          48
49   IFNANC2C FRUCIPAL FALLVI a  E                0.00    0.00    0.00    3.91    7.10  106.56  174.26  26.61  122.5  679.81            49
S0          CM. UWFDMCIC PRIC. FALLIO ME          0.00    0.00    0.00    8.91   01.01  138.S7  810.63  55.48  679.81  679.81           s0
81          C.". SUILOAN FRM COIL. AS S OF                                                                                              51
62              CM.   INFD. PIN. FALLING ME       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   42.10   46.06   68.48   87.81  192.83   34.61          52
83  LD82N0RiPM3CINO PtICIPAL #43TC0                0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.62   -4.62  -62.47  -26.11  -40.91  -11.12 -147.95         8S
54         Ca. LoDCqIl. PRIN. 14OTO4              0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.62   -8.84  -6.81  -45.92 -186.83 -147.95 -17.95            54
88  RF      D IMC E 5OBT PALLVN OM                0.00'   0.00    0.00    I.66    9.75   80.6    62.9    70.70   8.25  21S.16           6S
as          CVo.   D 1T06218  W. FPLLDa VI        0.00    0.00    0.00    1.eo   11.40   61.27  114.26  104.93  218.16  218.18          5
87  LDCPSWOC90 INuT IWIN                          0.00    0.00    0.00    2.90    7.09   4..02   74.65  112.08   19.06  207.70          57
8           *M. Loo.iWI. DIr. 13IN                0.00    0.00    0.00    2.96    9.ce    1.97   76.W6  196.61  207.70  207.70          so
69  WIOODIOI/R . PRV2. 14253604 ANDPT. WJtO        0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    2.27  -70.49   46.48   71.3u    7.97   59.75         60          '. 
SO          CM. L9O.AtIN.41 a3T10 &OIN           0.00    0.00    0.00    2.88    4.65    .84  -19.88   51.75   69.75   59.75           6091'U  2
61  C aMT PAL SU9LOPN PICIPAL LsrANoTM            0.00    0.00   78.00  99.61  7W7.8  1155.24 19.07 1t14.7  W78.14 1075.14               1   W0
*2  WE. C014T1*L #1404 P3C. OfMAINo                 -      0.00   87.80   87.1  818.467  941.29  I.16  193.72 112.76                     2   t62
68  oPIN *IN 891.0                                0.00    0.00   75.00   O7.5  76.S  1178.3 1442.88 1538.46 1422.   1412.20             as
e4  AVE. wLfMTMCsW ARM * bff D#   o                -       0.00  8?7.0  191.2   8.21  96o4.85 1809.66  4.SD 1470.57 144.
68  INW. COL.. AS   OPF AVE. CSIR7'L   2. OVrXfO0  -       -        0.0     0.0     1.1     8.2      8.7     2.7     1.7                         1 4
e6  SN. COLL. AS F9O AV. MRi. SW OVU5               -               0.0     0.0     1.0     8.2      6.2     2.8     1.8                 6
67  OCmmL 95J9 8 1  OP OF A4 CAPTAL               0.00    0.OO  -8.68  -6.46   71.89  -49.4   166.58   12.99    7.97   8."              67
6s      OJt. onTCL P3r  OM1F OM    CAPIAL         0.00    0.00  -88.63 -144.09  -72.20 -170.68   18.90   28.8    86.6   86.S6           a
69  AnCTUL PROAC9 6OlA=  OP AIP CAPAL             0.00    0.00  -68.63   45.40   49.74 -US.79   65.26 -245.48  -125.65 -624.18          a
70      CMa. ACITM. OMOF APRM  CWAtAL              0.00    0.00  -6.z63 -132.08  -12.29 -08.0  -152.62 -98.25 -624.10 -S21.10           TO
71                                                                                                                                      71
72                                                                                                                                      72
78                                                                                                                                      78



001                                                       (D  Aa 0.00 
406                                                                                                                                         408
4tZ                                                                                                                                         46
41     2Am        6F 1VIM                            0.v 1a.481                                                                             405
406      TOUZ .11 - .5*1674 VTA                               - 8t069       1SEZ7PSE13. U1S IUl. 4*  P0CIXt0                                061
4W7                                                      (i TaS  100,000)                                                                   40J
409                                                1460    1461    l1962    14*l    146      1465    t.6      1f6t    146   W4AI            409
410  61Sl4 03UT      TsmV                            0.00  266.42    1.60  66.6S  $66.64    4.        2.        0.00    0.00  1.4           410
41W       Cm. 4DM.0a I1OFU45 70 0w                  0.00   36.42   6.   146.7  173.1   74.0    .46  17.2  17.2  7.9                        411
412                                                                                                                                         412
418  0        _6VM S Nlelon                          0.00  1.8  46.11   *ll4.60   46.82  214.69   4.69    1.15    0.00 1666.69              43
414       O41. 0Uw_S TO 0673                         0.00   2.76  662.64  978.7I 14.   1426.65 1*5.54  1*5.69  165.69  16.69                414
416                                                                                                                                         415
416    61* U        O61 TOgU0                        0.00  00.69      .16 426.06    1.-" 65  .142   86.89   64.26   64.26   eo.2 4    41
4U7       OJ. 0168I. 65 6 oF @.  S61)Sf  (6)          -      S6.e     2.7    69.7    8s.9    94.0    45.2    45.2    f5.2    45.2           417
415                                                                                                                                         414
419     342          16                              o.oo    0.00   144.64  463S.07  469.24  890.60   64.77    0.00    0.00  1692.46        419
420  L      t. tWVU D3         V28                   0.00    0.00  144.64  577.71. 106.-4  1S6.45 14.t4   19.0   12.02 1692.22              4
42t                                                                                                                                         42
422  att. 0lS_   1O 676                              0.00   12.78  S62.U6  7.64  12.f6  166.6  IS*.4   16.9  166.9  163.                    400
4061.36 '79.    D Po0.ee    0.co   144.64  57.7n  1.04   62.45  19.12 164.0   14.00  1692.00                                                41
425  N71WE Ownu4C3WJ P0A7                            0.00  129.73  416.20  40). 98  667.01   11.20   4.480  -5.63   -6.66    4.S.6         400
424                                                                                                                                         42
427  0C. 48A.           4 AS S IIF OJID DISI. (I )    -       -      25.7    59.0    72.6    ee.,4   100.4   100.3   100.6   100.8         42
42                                                                                                                                         406
429  DC. (OM.) IN 1TWM P00*3* FLOAT                  0.00  12.7t  *.47   -17.27  -*1.42 -375 -1 7.86    1.15    0.00   -5.66                420
460       NUrW  FIWCINO FOAT                         0.00  129.7   4co.20  400.95  3701   11.20   4-.6    -5.5   -S.66    -S.S6           430
461       tEW  FPLAT 45 S OF *8. 06.                 0.0   100.0    74 6    41.0    27.2        0.7    -0.4    -0.    -0.8    -0.          431
481                                                                                                                                        48
48                                                                                                                                         434
466                                                                                                                                        48s
4"                                                                                                                                         436
4S7    2-Jim  12: 51 UN                                  3htdA.S                                                                           43
438                                     7*A1.1 J2 - J49TA .SA  - LONE   615061 FAW    SOMAS                                                 48
439                                                      (IN TAK14 100.000)                                                                48
44                                                                                                                                         440
441                                                10w   140l    1962   1t66    1944    1466    14"6         17    1460  0D                441
442  D      IISSJES  tO 1E 1WO                      0.00  129.73  46.11  415.80  4.0    214.19   46.69    1.15    0.00  e16.69             442
443S      0*. 013441   TO DATE                      0.00    9.-7   66.14  973.64  24M."  lw.66  *as.6  1*5.69  16.69  16.6                44
444                                                                                                                                        44
44   S15.3 PrDCI& PAUMl  OR4                        0.00    0.00   17.21   71.48  181.89   6.72  241.67          .62   -0.56   776.60      445
446       CUP. 6AL.03 9RIMPAL, PALLDIN41M           0.00    0.00   17.21   68.64  2.06  86.7S   5.42  777.0o  776.50  7".50                44
447 .                                                                                                                                      447
44   ON. 6A3W. MM. tLLIUME AS S 0*9. 0.              -        0.0     8.1     9.1    35.       1.7    82.5    40.1    46.0    46.0         44s
449                                                                                                                                        449
460   _O116211  NWCVAL PUALUO VA                    0.00    0.00    0.48   26.22   96.65  000.29  28.61  227.39  110.40  049.04            460
4t5       0*9. IAhCDC 2t19. WILDS VA                0.00    0.00    0.4    26.70   16.Os  66.384   12.16s  as.6   949.4   949.4            453
466     DRISEI. O1164*7                             0.00    0.00   16.73   46.21  #6.06 -18.3    -7.14    1.22 -110.OS -173.44             455
44        OM.                m  *. e.T              0.00    0.00   16.73   61.44       .96  -466    46.73  -62.61 -173.44  -12.44         4A
466                                                                                                                                        465
_5                                                                                                                                         46
460    2-J    125  UN 
461                                     TAUI. .1 - J~TA 9    - LONS                                                                       4e2   0   i 9
462                                                       M1 TAM  lOOO,O)                                                                  4vt    _
408                                                                                                                                        466
4                                                 146      1461    16      1on      14    lieo   1a4    1967    168          16A76"? *4IA
465          CUt.4  3 7. UWiLl  mm41                0.00    0.00   16.75   77.e4   142.6S   62.79    0.49  267.61   -2.00    6.06         46
*3.kM   65IAV VINYm  FNALLO CI*                0.00    0.45   16.78   46.62  216.88  4.16   of1."6  86.66  an-.06  36.06              466
46?                                                                                                                                        467 
4*5   OWWZSCINO  NIMSr 194130414                    0.00    0.00    0.15    9.66   81.86   40.16   75.M    66.07   26.07  29".0           406
*809L. 846366*340 Va. FALL3  cm4               0.00    0.00    0.15    9.16   41.08  %*1.28  176.66  241.73  266.60  26.9.0          464
478                                                                                                                                       473
474                                                                                                                                       414
47541



476                                                                                                                                          47
477                                                                                                                                          477
476    28-Jun   12:81 R8:4                                S@AD                                                                               476
479                                     T7. J4 - JNTA SW  - WItATUAL  PFOL  FIOAT                                                            47
4t                                                        (IN TAMA 100.000)                                                                   -
461                                                                                                                                          41
462                                                 1980    1981    192    1965    1964    196         196     1967    196   01*AATM         462
46    BOiNm        IN0    IcIAL 51*tl61Ot            0.00    0.00    18.78   48.21   85.04 -18.5?  -27.14    1.2  -110.96  -173.44           465
464       0*4. LoD.IImm. P23. NtTO4                  0.00    0.00   16.7S    61.94    6.96  46.69  -68..  -42.81 -175.44 -115.4              464
465                                                                                                                                          465
486      1W   _6*I   DiN1           IN               0.00    0.00  1t.68   66.21   110.00   82.54   1".11   142.24  480.67  566.26           48
467           am. LU3./mm. Da. 111                   0.00    0.00   34.65   65.64  197.84  219.66  414."   597.28.  56.26  56.26             47
466                                                                                                                                          465
469  LS5OjWiN. PRD*. mYCH me 13. 111                 0.00    0.00   85.38  118.42  145.84 -111.e0   167.67  1.46  -141.00  892.02            49
400           a6. WeD.AD'. ITOI A   owI              0.00    0.00   85.86  14.75  2"4.42  3.29  851.26  54.72  892.42  892.82                4"
491                                                                                                                                          491
492  DNC. (D.) I6 HeIr E PD1cZI  FLAT                0.00  129.73  2B8.47  -17.27   -18.2 -875.61  -17.88    1.18    0.00   -5.88            492
496       NATIVn  P16*61  FLOAT                      0.00   129.71  418.20  400.95  857.01   11.20   -4.66    -5.58   -5.53   -5.55          495
494                                                                                                                                          494
496  0flOflC P*S $00J OPlt    A CATAL                0.00 -129.78  -2M.11   180.69  18.46  264.18   18.65  182.81 -141.90   8.85             495
4t       am. O6TNCTL PRJT       OF    TA CATAL       0.00 -129.73  -862.64 -252.18  -92.69  172.09  857.94  540.28  896.85  89.88            4"
497                                                                                                                                          4"
496                                                                                                                                          496
4t9                                                                                                                                          4W
8101t   9t501t F
8M     28-Jmn  12:81 MH                                   8*6QLAABN                                                                          M.
801M                                     TABLE J": JDTA 86W--ACTUWL PORTFUO  FLOAT                                                           6LI
804                                                       (IN TAS  100.000)
X0s                                                                                                                                          SW5
weO                                                1910     1111    1962    1968    1964    UIIS    19m6   low        198  OATJVE           IY6
SW   OtNRAL PCR80T SI.   (USE) tNC CAPTAL    0.00 -129.78  -s5a1l .1*0.69  189.46  264.78  1U.85    12.81 -14i.40  89.85                    SD7
M        CM. CHM3'L PRJ. SOLI  (35) (M    CO "TAL   0.00 -120.73 -82.4 -252.1   -.2.69  172.09  357.94  540.25  896.85   98.85               SOB
U09                                                  0. Dl T0AL IWmt   0  0.00    0.00   81.62  10.71   20.66   94.16  855.74  26679  -0..f  1030.00  610
811    5*T6AL R06T   0v4m                            0.00    0.00   81.62  17.40  898.08  462.24  687.98 1104.77 15.00 106.00                511
812                                                                                                                                          512
S1   ACIWI P.T 6MAt0 OP ~TA CAPTAL                   0.00 -129.7  -4.73    4.91  -71.22  170.42 -189.6          4.46  -72.13 -6.6S           51I
514      CM. AYWAL    BO JAITA CATAL                0.00 -129.71  -414.46 -409.55  -480.77 410.15 -40.04 -864.52 -66.65 -58.65              614
a8n                                                                                                                                          5S1
834                                                                                                                                          516



--                ~~~~~PART I
APPDIX 3
Page 3
ttrt;ltal8at8 8|t^tlllS3gSil||Ell^|!s3!
988"ti882"0^e^S8|8"23   S8Z                                 328823#Sv    8I|
EIo~~oggi;;o1oa~a,~I                                3    *flgg     .     S|a0|    
sss&":t;aslssasgses;srasxusst:elta Iees4;esWess|.s: a 
8352e||vSSlStE8*|ilsEvn PQSa"v3l#IX 33tRfl
I ss"lals;s!sYx;leesle3ttesl2;   tt;wtSqww
i  s83^ s3e 8   2lSke    SU       2#g;; 8|^ Sff3PiiU8   8388  |32  3ISUi#2
.4                                                     *    4g8i5tt!;Rtggega g4vi! 
II   S;;518888Sj, *,8888888o8   883;58$;5ee^eRateeSee;_1-SS85Sl8er88 Z5881
;! l!!ag|jiiggaRSori$0*i0%|WItlg O0fiaf  0008i* @j00@-3I3 ;
-qgWf8te88.8888  , , , 8..8880888888  S8888.~8*,8..S                       88oo.f
It#fifgf - 00000000000000            000ooo^^o 0oooos 00000   0000000       00
.48    8888000,,,,,0O*0lOOOOO0OOOO
E ~l                          8 t|                                'kg 'I '"8X1 El,'0      1||  5    i
slg! O8 SlBSeSee8e88 8e Ie ll8 il Oes   a|   N*g3alillt  IIIIiIIlit         !I



bno lU-be   12251 At                                      W0D@AVM                                                                            GM
an                                      T76  61  S311.           - OWLOMO   I4IOSEr. 018A17S, -M  wIwCttS                                    21n
s                                                         (N TN"I r 100.00)                                                                  582
am                                                                                                                                           eS2
524                                                1900    1991    19        06     104    165    106         16      106   *L"AlTV         524
8an   3..06 0861V138                                66.08  845.62   95.02 1078.12  481.26   94.29  44546    0.00    0.00 2o.60               5
61        oat. aLOAW       o CeNUTS TO OAM          08.08  488.65  0S.67  MU0.7   086.05 2147.84 25.0, 2ws.e0  2as.80  92.60                 us
520   Z501890    FtlR W                              0.00  201.05   74.17  887.06  667.74  489.48  025.04    O.0o    0.00 2466.06            SR
019       C. 016.tm. DuemS T0 Om                     0.00  232.15  607.12  6s.15  151.00 1961.12 240.386 2686.386 246.36 2466.86             6n
a81UO116           u CDn s                          6e.e, 2Q0.70   21.85   67n. 614   61.16  1s.02  1t0.44  10.4   1o0."  t10.44             581
an        OM. 016. AS S OF OM. @360*1  (              0.0    56.7    SS.1  89.6    78.2    91.8    98.9    15.9    95.9  O5.9                51
a"4    _101Ic22S                                     o.eo   40.00  159.27  26.90  57.8   71?.06  511.76  164.73    0.00  24o6.78             884
SR        @3.   DW.Cl0 l                             0.00   40.00  200.16  496.66  1074.2  1790.26 201.02 2466.75 2466.75, 2466.7            ass
BP   on.  _IISNET  TO am3                            0.00   =2.95  807.12  684.18  1801.69 1961.12 2466.86 2486.86  2486.8t  2486.36          37
OM   165 CUl:f.    #6636I0 1                         0.00   40.00  200.16  496.66  1074.21 17W0.26 2602.02 2466.75 246.75 2456.75            we
80   tTIVU   WDmCm0  LA.T                            O.CO  192.06  10.96  187.49  427.68  171.06  184.84    19.61   19.61   19.61           80
641                                                                                                                                          841
54282
5l48    U-.ltn  12:81 At                                  69*AU                                                                               4
a"4                                     T74  S2  - SI30U  BWM - 1,  40 AND    .0T w6C347 601t6                                               644
848s                                                      (IN 744D 100,000)                                                                  645
8                                                  1060    191n    10l2    1068    1964    165    10S          167    1966  C6LA^T?V         847
84S   IUU     ItS FR 1t9 WTMV                        0.00  32.15   74.17  s27.06  67.74  489.48  825.04    0.00    o.0o  2466.86             846
so        CUM. D_667S 70 DATE                        0.00  282.95  807.12  684.18  101.69  1061.8  2466.   2466.86 2406.35 24s6.36           s4
8al  M3.AN AtIIMI    FALLiJO Om                      0.00    0.00    8.18   4.06   66.61  201.2S  8s6.24  8a6.11  181.7  1176.11             851
Su        0U6. 3U.0* FRDIPAL ML    VA                o.O    0.00    8.18   80.16  106.77  806.08  666.27  094.86  1176.11  1176.11          582 2
584  OM.   LN. PRN. I:ALD4 VA.2 AS   CU6. 0I86.       -        0.0     1.0     7.9      ?.1    15.7    26.8    40.0    47.8    47.8          584
SU    1DDSCO FRVIAL P1L16 DUE                        0.00    O.0O    8.18   85.87   96.91  167.81  29.2.9  849.99   17.37  t128.14           586
Sp        OM. WlsmCi   MC. fALLM O6M                 0.00    0.00    8.18   89.06  126.C   266.49  865.78  155.77 112. 14  1*2.14            a7
So9  601N            I     CI    _ TOt               0.00    0.00    0.00   11.11  -80.82 aa.75   66.15  -21.08   -5.64   82.97              m9
580       OJ6. LS1W0_ D4. FR9C. 6t37                 0.00    0.00    O.0,    11.11   -9.1n   14.84   80.49   86.6       52.97   82.97        860
we                                                                                                                                           561
862                                                                                                                                          662
864                                                                                                                                          564
an                                                                                                       Su~~~~~~~~~~
as      2JuN  12:51 pH                                    6.SMACN                                                                            S6
87                                       TAll 1SS - SOMALI 8K - L.* AN0 P.01.0* 1m8T me0mo       i                                           S67
an6                                                       (IN TCWAS 100C,00)                                                                 E69
500                                                                                                                                          an,
57                                                 1160    1061    1962    1068    1066    165    1066    1967    1966  @1           W       670
5n   6.0 D       mn ? P414 6 an                      0.00    0.00    7.57   80.46   45.84   97.80  200.61  801.85  141.86   915.48           sn571    .
872       am. 33.0* DttET FALLIN6 Om                 0.00,   0.00    7.57   a8.0e   68.57  181.87  4n.0   778.65  915.46   018.48            572
54      DIFA CD60 PDnmt P49.I  -M                    0.00    0.e00    0.54   18.26   27.0    44.8    88.00   91.94   47.44  10.7S            574   *
an        am. oDWCU0 VIT. P41            ! Om        0.00    0.00    0.54   18.80   41.73   Ot.86  19.S   261.82  86.76  8.7S                 6S 
817  IWDc     DETn? 3A                               0.00    0.00    7.06   17.20   1e.61       .18  27.1  209.9    94.21  86.72              n
Ws            @a1. LDOSWo.. WT. o.eoN                0.00    0.0      7.06   24.20   41.64   94.9  S02.9O  512.81  606.72  606.72 e
879                                                                                                                                          679 
86                                                                                                                                           mS
Soo1                                                                                                                                        8Gm
am                                                                                                                                           an



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32
384     W.MR   12:61 w                                    W4@MSM                                                                             564
an                                       TAILI 64 -SOWMLI OMW - COMYRACItUA P0TOLIOU FLAT                                                     -
an                                                 1lo0    1961   1son       1906    1964    1965    166"   196        190   0.*SLATV        us6
an9  LDCZW/IiwcP  mRDSwft N260001                    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.11  -80.=    88.73   68.96  -1.6    -6.64   82.97              a"
"0        Co. LoW.ADn"        .   NIU6TOS            0.00    0.00    0.00   11.11  -19.21   14.54   00.49   66.81    2.97   52.97           9SW
891                                                                                                                                          Ul1
89  WU4WDC               DmI                         0.00    0.00    7.06   17.90   17.61   56.15  907.61  900.91   94.21  606.72            Su
89        OW. ft.daZ.   .. nom                      0.00    0.00    7.0e 26 .0    41.84   94.99  802.80  822.81  606.72  806.72    n 03
894                                                                                                                                          89x
m                  PRmM 610 A IN! WIN                0.00    0.00    7.0O   26.81  -72.71   06.90  07.86  186.06   88.8?    9.69             8
SM        CUM UOj400 MM aIsM    & D1rWA8             0.00    0.00    7.08   88,84   22.68  106.59  8.09  571.U2  69.69  689.69               896
SW7                                                                                                                                          897
666  DC. (a0.) 3NM m W   PDIwc1FORAW                 0.00  19.06  -65.1O    8O."   290.19 -6.62   18.26 -164.78    0.00   19.61              5S
a"9       NTV   FPWCP  FLOAT                         o.oO   199.06  loe.16   18.49  47.6  17.0o   104.84   19.e6   lO.1    19.SI              9
810                                                                                                                                          600
001  CO t_RAMIWL :JTr SKWM  OF 6MU    CAPrrAL        0.00 -192.06   92.1    -2.92 -8O90  84.62  260.26  382.76   0.67  640.00                601
on        0*. aE"L Fr   IW         tOPF   CAPVTAL    0.00 -1M.06  -9."  -109.18  -406.05  41.53  196.75  561.81  640.0   640.08              402
606                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~600
904                                                                                                                                          Oa4
6on                                                                                                                                          607
am                                                                                                        m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
on     26-Jan  12:51 K                                    og8.AIS                                                                            809
61O                                      TAULE 84: SOeW  9AfWCnTAL  POLIO FLOAT                                                             610
611                                                       (VI TmA  0oo.000                                                                   611
612                                                                                                                                          612
6                                                  19so    161    1992      196      1964      wo     146      SW7    1966  CUUATl           6s
614  CaMW*CTWL PRO.WT S3.E  (135NCO CAPItAL    0.00 -199.00   92.18   -2.26  -402.90  843.82  260.20  52.7               0.57   40.00        614
618     0CM. CONf!L FRJ. WU6ES (MM  MM CAPIAL   0.00 -199.06  -99.8  -102.15  -40.06  -61.56  196.76  561.51  60.06  640.06                  615
618                                                                                                                                          616
617  'DC. IN OTAL Wal?   OVUS                        0.00    0.00    7.02   56.94   56.06  299.256  466.87  489.94  262.61  1466.S9          617                   W
618  TOAL WWTW 0_WS                                  0.00    0.00    7.09   SS."  1M.02   80.27  61.64  18.S6 1468.89 1466.39                618
619                                                                                                                                          619
69   AC3UAL PR       seuR= OF SODL CAPAL             0.00 -19.06    5.11   41.16  -7.96  114.7  -20.09  47.16  -144.24  446.81               620
691      CU. ACIWA.       OF ON 8L. CAPTAL           0.00 -1.06 -106.96  -166.11 -62.07 -4u.0o 416.s6  -704.07 -6.81  -640.81                621
62                                                                                                                                           624
695    2&-Jum  12:81 FM                                   gANKAI4                                                                            M2
696                                     TTAKE Ti - ALL SWS - SU3.N  0*WI1If. oisaUm,l. me RWZ?VACV                                           6F?
627                                                       (IN T780  100.000)                                                                 627
69                                                 1900   1tW1      1962    1968    1964    iwo       196      1w9     19B6   aMODAT!#       629      '  Dd
660  6131054 colowP                                106.78  I62.42 1611.64 184.11  677.59  246.17  472.82    0.00    0.00 S606."              6o       V A   I
af1       am. *o4oo8   0*)9y7  TO DATE             106.76  97.15 2682.79  4480.90  806.49 5584.6  06.9"  66.4"  06.9" S6 .9                          00  %IV
6U   UISUSU3S FM VW                                  0.00  862.66  Zs.2B  970.6s  1766.06 1148.12  68.90 8 100.16    0.00 5778.06            an       t4F



1l1litiilIlp                N Pg5|el  1 j ,eth   1111111e
4&88  ' ''8 ' 8888888888 88 ' 888888 '8' 8 '8 '''''8888888888-888-88 ' 88888  3
8828oa&8&8888888888 88&28S3888888888      8888388888888!IsSgl. G 83
8~:SSA888Xg  3||~s3  8.8Lss""$tX""tZ9w"|8"|l
i*8 X$|i;88>t8  t;;B"l 8wf8wF               op t                  Iwse;i3;;9SS:1"WS;F
Sl;t;te>8!85 EXif t":  8l3;U8t*SSt83  eltoe  38f57 ;82;St;f; 8:   -%$
iihi ~'                   &fl;n^SsileFaw88ee 8"SbU;Xs8A il#30lO 
8Y81otfiB8P1G| tf81888  e838g's83         38S 88 ol8UiaeVel8M
?  |    d  32i8 &ellu3;33$;t!3888 Y3s;gllulau"X .83EElll#"|U
3818IoleSiii5882I88I88 W" 910S 3AX1Ze1*e*S&QSltae3Y@82tS
Stt;tgegileFt;teU.S       Ohp*Wltgsgte8 tioQr8l  2328";eap8
i8   hZ8Bg3lp3  .peXoi8b83i i|#s3.t2888oloXi
taiea;;t88a    e6*;Gelfii8e_888|3;Q;eX ;.elSta3882
I UV
- BE -



- 39 -
PART 1I. Project from Borrower's Perspective
13. Project Summary
13.01    By an agreement known as "Development Credit Agreement" (DCA)
signed on October 17, 1980, between the Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the International Development Association (IDA), the IDA
extended to Bangladesh a credit line for SDR 26,70 million for setting up
of Small and Cottage Industries (SCIs) in Bangladesh. The main objectives
of the Project (SSI-III) were to increase productivity, employment and
export in the small and cottage industry sectors which included
manufacturing, repair, cargo transport, handicrafts and agro-related
enterprises. The Credit became effective from January 15, 1981. The
implementation of this Credit Program was administered by Bangladesh Bank
and it was closed finally on December 31, 1986.
14. Allocation of Funds
14.01    The category-wise distribution of the Credit amounts are shown
below:
Amount Allocated
Category                                        (in SDR)
1) Sub-loans to ssr                                 22,870,000
2) Equipment, vehicles and materials
for part-B of the Project                         1,250,000
3) Overseas training                                    50,000
4) Consultant's services                             1,850,000
5) Sales and exposure trips for exporters              310,000
6) Unallocated                                         370,000
Total                                      26,700,000
15. Proiect Implementation
Sub-loan Component
15.01    To establish organizational structure within the Bangladesh Bank.
and the Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs), the training of staff and
developing appropriate procedures for subloan processing were undertaken.
In this connection Bangladesh Bank recruited two engineers (Mecianical) and
hired two experienced financial analysts having MBA degree from Sonali Bank
and Bangladesh Shilpa Bank. Fourteen officers of PCIs received training in
SSI lending operations from Philippines and Sri Lanka and three key
officers of Industrial Credit Department of Bangladesh Bank received
training in Sri Lanka.



- 40 -
15.02    During this preparatory period, the PCIs started promoting the
Credit Program among the prospective subborrowers. A series of circulars
stating the policies and procedures were sent to the PCIs' regional and
district-level branches. Subloan processing formats were also prepared
during this period.
15.03    Sub-project Appraisal:  As per terms of the Participating Credit
Agreement between the PCIs and the Bangladesh Bank, the PCIs carried out
the appraisal of the financial, technical, managerial and marketing aspects
of the subprojects. The formats used by the PCIs contained almost all the
basic information and particulars of the subprojects to be financed under
the Credit. The PCIs also supplied additional information if requested by
Bangladesh Bank and the IDA.
15.04    On receipt of proposal of subproject from the PCIs Bangladesh Bank
reviewed the appraisal of the proposed subprojects. Refinance approvals
were accorded to the PCIs in respect of the subprojects involving subloans
below Tk. 1.5 million after review of the appraisal submitted by PCIs,
while the supprojects involving subloans amounting above Tk. 1.5 million
were sent to the IDA along with Bangladesh Bank's review report for prior
authorization.
15.05    Supervision Performance of the PCIs:  Although the procedures and
system of project supervision and end-use monitoring in the preliminary
stage was not satisfactory, the concerned PCIs later on organized cells for
project supervision. Officers of the industrial credit divisions of Head
Office, regional and branch offices pay regular visit to the defaulting and
sick SSI units. They are trying to solve the problems faced by the units
and to improve the collection performances. Moreover, the high officials
of the PCIs including Managing Directors regularly meet the entrepreneurs
and thus try to improve the collection rate.
15.06    Reporting Performance:  The PCIs submltted monthly and quarterly
reports to the Bangladesh Bank stating position of subloan applications
received, processedlsanctioned, and pending with them. The quarterly reports
also contained information regarding the PCIs' lending activities, staffing
and training position. Based on the reports of the PCIs, Bangladesh Bank
prepared quarterly report for submission to the IDA.
Technical Assistance Component
15.07    Overseas Training:  As per provision of the DCA and Agreed Minutes
of Negotiations relating to Credit 1065-BD, 18 officers of the Bangladesh
Sank and the PCIs received training on SCI lending/refinancinglsupervising
activities with development banks in Sri Lanka and Philippines. The list
of the trained officers is furnished at Annex 4 to this report. The
overseas training cost was US$36,582 in foreign currency and Tk. 260,525 in
local currency.
15.08    Consultant's Services:  SDR 1.85 million was allocated under the
technical services component of Credit 1065-BD for appointment of two
consultants from outside for 12 man-months, of which one for the Industrial



41 -
Credit Department of Bangladesh Bank and the other for the concerned PCIs.
For this purpose, Mr. R.M. Lacanienta of Philippines was selected in
August, 1981 for appointment to Bangladesh Bank but finally he declined to
take up the job. Later on in March, 1986, Mr. Karl H. Altagayer of BMB,
Netherlands, also was selected for the same purpose, but he also could not
take up the job. As such, despite much efforts, no consultant could be
appointed under the technical services component of the Credit.
16. Project Impact
Institution Building
16.01    Bangladesh Banks As per provisien contained in the DCA an SCI
refinancing unit was established in the Bangladesh Bank, initially headed
by a senior officer including two mechanical engineers, two MWAs, one
economist and one accountant. Subsequently the unit was up-graded into a
full-fledged department headed by a General Manager including one Deputy
General Manager, two Joint Directors, two Deputy Directors, four Assistant
Directors and two Mechanical Engineers.
16.02    Participating Financial Institutions:  Sonali Bank, Janata Bank
and Agrani Bank are the 3 PCIs under the Credit. As Sonali and Janata Bank
participated in the SSI-II Program, they had the SCI units at their Head
offices headed by Assistant General Managers. Agrani Bank opened new SCI
unit to carry out its function which was headed by an Assistant General
Manager. Subsequently the Industrial Credit Divisions of all the PCIs were
expanded and headed by Deputy General Managers.
Sub-Project Characteristics
16.03    Subsectoral Dist ibution: Under the subloan component 670 new and
13 balancing, modernization, rehabilitation and expansion (BMRE) projects
were financed. The subsector distribution of the projects shows that the
PCIs financed mostly traditional projects such as metal workshops (19.242),
rice and flour mill (ll.42Z), power-loom weaving (10.632), cold storage
(6.392) - (Annex 2).
16.04    Geographic Distribution:  Under this project most of the
subprojects were set up in greater Dhaka (43Z) and Chittagong (82) area
(Annex 2). The rest was more evenly distributed among the remaining
districts of the country. The localization of the subprojects in Dhaka and
Chittagong indicates population concentration, availability of raw
materials and skilled labor etc.
16.05    Economic Impact of Sub-ProJects Financed:  The SCI units set up
under the Credit were labor-intensive and have created employment
opportunities for more than 20,000 people in urban and rural areas. Under
the Credit the SCI units were mainly based on agriculture which played a
significant role to strengthen the agricultural sector. It also
contributed to some extent to the Gross National Project (GNP) by
increasing productivity and income of the working-group. Under the credit,



_ 42 -
about 50 ready-made garments industries have been established. The major
portion of the workers engaged in garment industries were women. The SCI
units also helped in promotion of expert and earned foreign currency by
exporting its product and in this regard the ready-made garment industries
contributed to a greater extent. Thus, it is observed that the SCI units
established under the Credit could fulfill its objectives to some extent by
facilitating the generation of incom, employment, promotion of exports,
earning of foreign currency and increase of productivity.
16.06    Repayment Performance of Borrowerss  The recovery position is
35.431 in average (Annex 3). The collection ratio under the credit is poor
and it is learnt that about 342 of the subborrowers were willful
defaulters. There were other reasons which were responsible for poor
repayment performance of the subborrowers. These were ast
i) Most of the sponsors having little knowledge and experience could
not run their business efficiently and profitably.
ii) Implementation of subprojects was delayed due to various problemw
faced by the entrepreneurs. These problems were related to
machinery, supplier of machinery, non-availability of
infrastructural facilities and execution of documentation
formalities, etc.
iiI) Many subborrowers faced marketing problems. The domestic products
could not exist in competition with the imported ones;
iv) The natural calamities like floods caused serious effect on the
subprojects.
v) Socio-political situation was also responsible for poor repayment
performance of the borrowers. Strikes, labor-unrest, and frequent
power failures etc. affected adversely the industrial production.
17. Conclusions
17.01    Out of the total amount of SDR 22.87 million available under the
subloan component of the Credit, SDR 20.12 million has been withdrawn from
the IDA against Bangladesh Bank's refinance provided to the PCIs and an
amount of SDR 2.75 million remained undisbursed in the Credit account which
was subsequently cancelled by the IDA. The main reasons for partial non-
utilization of the Credit were as follows:
i) The criteria for selection of projects with fixed cost not
exceeding Tk. 2.5 million, excluding the value of land and
buildings and the highest permissible subloan limit of Tk. 3.00
million debarred many bigger projects from being accommodated
under the Credit;
ii) The condition for creation of at least one full time job against
fixed investment of Tk. 50,000 was found incompatible with many of
the prospective project proposals;



- 43 -
iII) The condition for sanctioning at least 402 of total subloans to
subprojects having fixed cost up to Tk. 1.00 million and the
requirement of using at least 602 indigenous raw materials worked
as constraints for selection of subprojects;
iv) The life-time initially set from January 15, 1981 to June 30, 1984
was inadequate for completion of the project with the given
conditionalities of the Credit. Although the time period Was
extended up to June, 1986, the extension was given in two phases;
v) The PCIs sometimes took a long time at different stages of
selection, appraisal and funding of the subprojects. Further for
maintaining the prescribed 60:40 ratio of subloans to larger and
smaller subprojects, the banks sometimes had to keep sanctioning
activities suspended;
vi) Owing to non-fulfillment of post-sanction formalities by the
entrepreneurs, some 135 approved subprojects involving a total
subloan of Tk. 140 million had to be cancelled;
vii) The suspension of authorization of fresh subprojects by the IDA
when authorization exceeded SDR 22.87 million in mid-1984, till
the same was offset by subsequent cancellaticns, also Impeded
utilization of the Credit; and
viii) The continued devaluation of the Taka over the period rendered SDR
utilization at a level lower than the initial authorization made,
against most of the subloans and was also partially responsible
for lower utilization of the Credit.
17.02    Although there had been a number of constraints, but due to co-
operatior and ass,.stance extended by all concerned, i.e., IDA, GOB, PCIs
and continuous monitoring of Bangladesh Bank, it was possible to utilize
68X of the Credit fund.
18. Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC)
18.01    Contrary to Bangladesh Bank and PCIs, the BSCIC believed that the
objectives set out in SSI-III could not be met due to poor design of the
project. It went as far as saying that there had not been any noteworthy
positive results achieved from this project, except that it provided
lessons that there is a need for linking the financial institutions and the
BSCIC for future design of project. Only agreements that the BSCIC has
with the PCIs was regarding the low limit of cost per job, all of these
institutions found it inadequate. On the other hand, however, the BSC!C
has argued that Credit No. 1065-BD was biased towards selecting large sized
sub-projects. Regarding sanctioning of sub-projects, it found the
selection procedure highly centralized at the PCIs, although they did not
have sufficient appraisal capability. The sanctioning procedure was also
found to be quite complicated, time elapsed from the sanctioning at PCIs to
final approval of Bangladesh Bank and IDA was considerably long, resulting



- 44 -
unnecessary delay in implementation of subprojects. The BSCIC expressed
strong resentment regarding its role in the SSI-III project. It found it
unnecessary for IDA to help BSCIC in developing its institutional
capabilities through technical assistance under different S81 Credits,
while such acquired capability was not utilized by IDA in implementing
Credit No.1065-BD. The IDA rather helped through this credit to develop
parallel capabilities in the PCIs, which the BSCIC did not find necessary
and found as added cost to IDA. It argued strongly to use the existing
institutional facilities, rather than delinking financial institutions from
the promotional and extension agency (i.e. BSCIC). Development of
appraisal capability at the PCIs and relinquishing BSCIC's responsibility
in the appraisal and approval of subprojects in Credit No. 1065-BD, in
fact, created an uneasy relationship between the PCIs and BSCIC. Such a
relationship was not warranted, whatever were the reasons, and this credit
according to PCIs, BSCIC and Bangladesh Bank have created such a situation,
BSCIC assigned the reason for underutilization of the Credit was due to
inadequate capability of PCIs in appraisal method, slow implementation and
monitoring subprojects. This has also in turn affected adversely the
recovery rates of PCIs. BSCIC, however, recognized that the PCIs have
acquired by now some appraisal, implementation and monitoring capabilities
of subprojects at the Head Office levels, but at the designated branch
levels such a capability is yet to be achieved. BSCIC finds that it could
have contributed positively in pre-appraising subprojects at the designated
branch levels as the BSCIC already possess such capability at the district
levels. It has been regretted that due to bad relationship between the
PCIs and BSCIC, such help has never been sought by the PCIs.



- 45 -
PART II
ANX 1
BANGLADESH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT CREDIT 1065-RD
Actual Cumulative Disbursements
(Taka in millions)
Disbursement of
GOB Fiscal Year                  refinance loan
FY  1982                            32.17
FY  1983                            89.27
FY  1984                           137.92
IY  1985                           194.23
PY  1986                           110.23
FTY  1987                           10.50
Total                              574.32



- 46 -
PART II
ANNEX 2
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCAL  INDSTRY PROJECT (CREDIT 1065-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Characteristics of Sub-Pro1ects Financed
(Taka in million)
1. Distribution by PCIs             No.          X         Amount         I
Sonali Bank                     305         45         246.67         43
Janata Bank                     231         34         169.44         29
Agrani Bank                     147          21        158.21         28
2.  Type of sub-proiect             No.          2
New                             670         98
BSRE                             13           2-
Totalt                          683        100
3.  Sub-sectoral Distribution       No.          2
a) Food & Allied Products       255         37
b) Textile Industries           125          18
c) Specialised Jute Products      2          1
d) Forest Products & Allied      56          8
Industries
e) Paper, ioard, Printing &      31           4
f) Tannery, Leather & Rubber    20           3
g) Chemicals, Pharmaceuticals   20           3
and Allied Products
h) Glass, Ceramics                7           1
i) Miscellaneous Industries      39          6
J) Engineering Industries       101         15
k) Road Transport                21           3
1) Industries Not Elsewhere       6          1
Classified and Misc.
Cottage Industries
Total               683         10O



- 47 -
PART II
AN=EX 2
Page 2
4.  Geooraphic Distribution
District                         No.        I
Chittagong                       56          8
Comilla                          42          6
Noakhali                         21          3
Sylhet                           11          1
Dhaka                           294         43
Faridput                         34          S
Mymensingh                       15          2
Tangail                           3          1
Jamaiput                         28          4
Barisal                          11          1
Jessore                           9          1
zhulna                           13          2
Iushitia                         13          2
Patuakhali                        4          1
Begra                            27          4
Dinajpur                         19          3
Pabna                            26          4
Rajahahi                         25          4.
Rangpur                          32          5
Totals               683         100
5.  Sub-loan Size                   No.         2         Amount         2
Tk. 500,000 and less            282         41         82.82         14
Tk. 500,001-1,500,000           296         43        270.44         47
Tk. 1,500,001-3,000,000         105         16        221.06         39
Total:                683         100        574.32       100



PRWJECT COMPLETON REPORT
BANGLADES1 - TN1W SMALL SCALE DOHM PROJECT
(Credit 10D)
Cumulative Collction Pertornace of Participatin Credit Institutiona.
(Take in miliion)
aSO"II Book               I         Jneto Bak                     Arani            I             Total
| IDi"    Col letd    11  I Du*       Col loted     r4 -w I90 Di     olt l              I       Col        l_ct
Doember 1985        68.11      18.81    24.01  62.79       14.57     28.20   12.20       7.2?     69.59 181.10       1.65      27.19
Jun.    19806       88.8       19.64    28.47  82.10       19.50     28.75   28.16      18.90     49.82 198.96       58.04     27.84
Doemer 1098        111.78      81.71    28.40 114.00       81.21     26.50   40.5?      28.70    5.42 26.80         865.64    82.18
June    1907       146.08      41.78    28.7  1J8.61       41.89     29.62   57.24       2.99     57.68  841.09     116.11     $4.04
December 1067      171.99      61.48    29.98  161.60      61.12     81.68   79.42      86.70     46.21 418.01      189.80     U.78
May     1988       171.00      68.06    88.7  159.0/    58.80        886.2   01.86      88.47     41.67 428.48      160.08     85.43
!I Tho due awmnt bee ben  reduce because of reschdulting In repayment of several sub-projoets.



- 49 -
PART it
- Prhicelre of Eup.woe  Trainin of
Off i@i*i  of 1C0 of  angladesh Sb k
VW Psrtici elisq San  under IDA
Credit No. 1OU-4
tN  aW ODeugnation                 e of     ICoutry            Ouration
of  article"                    B ank       lof visit 
1. Mr. Syed poda Reuiln       Sangladeh   Si Lanka           One month
Deputy Chief Officer      Sanx                            (1O.IA1-1O.L)
2.  Mr.  d. Moatafa            -do-         -do-              -d-
Soaking off leer
8.  Mr. MWuur IRshid           -do-         -do-
Bonking Officer
4. Mr. Jlmiudin Amed          Sona I Sanok  PhilIPPIns       4 (four) weeks
Executive Enginwr                       (FDCP) Mantl    (11.1.S.2.S)
S. Mr. A. K. Iuerul Slls    -do-            -do-
Financial *naly
S.  Mr. Wd. Nairul Sulm        -do-         -do-              -do-
Offifer
?. Mr. AimWe Gola  Sarvar    Janata Sak  -do-                 -410-
Senior Off ler
6. Mr  quaitlaker  din    -do-              -do-              -do-
AsIst. Eine.r(ci#il)    -o-             -do-             -do-
5.  ur. Md. Mizanusl Haq       -do-         -do-              -do-
Offi er
10. Mr. Md. Mukter Hoseln    Agrant Sank  -do-
Senlor Offlier
11. Mr. Nasrul Mobamad Kan  -do-             -do-              -do-
12. Mr. Soed Zaglul Abba        -do-         -do-              -do-
Principel Officer          -do-         -do-              -do-
13. Mr.  azrul ISlas            SonaluI Snk  Sri Lanks         2(t.o) weeks
Deputy General Manawer                                    (81.8.82-14.9 82)
14. Yr. eihd. Abdul Valek       -do-         -do-              -do-
Senior Principal Officer
15. Mr. A. M. atahuddin         Jrnata Sank  -do-              -do-
Senior Principal Offi er
14.  Mr. So1imn nKhn Mabil)   -do-           -do-              -do-
Senior Principal Offiler
17. Mr. S. v. Salhuddin         Agranl Sank  -do-              -db-
Asolit. Gboral Manaer
1. Mr-. MukOtr Ko"esan          -do-         -do-              -do-
Principal Off ler



-50-
PART I11. STATISTICAL SUNMARY
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
-------------------------------------____------------------------- _________._______
Loan/Credit                         Year of
No.          Title               Puraose       Aoproval   StStue       Coments
333-BD  Small Scale industry I   8m11-Scale    1971      Completed
Industry
Promotion
825-BD  Small Scale Industry II  Small-Scale    1978      Completed
Industry
Promotion
--------------------------_-------------------------------___----------------__-----
Follow-on Project
gone. A fourth Small Scale Industry Project was appraised in October
1984, but further processing was stopped due to lack of progress In credit
recovery by the participating coimercial banks.
2.  Proiect Timetable
Date                 Date
Item                                 Plasned              Actual
- Identification                      -                  November 1978
- Project Preparation                 -                  Two Years
- Appraisal Mission                April/May 1980        February 25, 1980
- Loan/Credit Negotiations         July 9, ls80         August 2, 1980
- Board Approval                   August 26, 1980       September 16, 1980
- Loan/Credit Signature                _                October 17, 1980
- Loan/Credit Effectiveness        January 15, 1981     January 15, 1981
- Loan/Credit Completion           December 31, 1983    June 30, 1986
- Loan/Credit Closing              June 30, 1984        June 30, 1986



- 51 -
3.  Loanlcredit Disbursew&ts
Cumalative Estimated and Actual Disbursement,
(SDR Million)
1981     1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Appraisal Estimate         9.5     20.6   26.4   26.7   26.7   26.7    26.7
Actual                     0.0      0.3      2.3     6.6    15.9    20.3    22.4
Actual as Z of Estimate    0.0       1.7     8.7    24.8    59.5    76.2    84.0
Date of Pinal Disbursementt January 23, 1987
Disbursement, by category
(SD! Million)
Amount of
Credit           S of               Actual        Disbursed as 2
Allocated at    Expenditures        Disbursements    of original
Category           Appraisal      To be Fin"aced        03131187        Allocation
Subloans under    22,870,000      1OOS of              20,302.904         88.8
Credit Line                       Bsngladesh Bank's
component                         refinancing
Equipment,         1,250,000      OOS of foreign       1,037,468          84.6
Vehicles, and                     expenditures; or
Materials for                     1007 of local
TA Component                      expenditures
(ex-factory)g or
80S
Overseas              50,000           100l                46,940         93.9
Training
Consultants'       1,850,000           100*               753,444         40.7
Services
Sales and            310,000            90S               273,865         88.3
Ezposure trips
for exporters
Unallocated          370.000            -                                  -
Total          26,700,000                           22,387,681        83.8



- 52 -
4.  Proiect Costs and Financina
A. Pro1ect Costs
(SDL MillLon)
Estimated
Avvraisal Estimate                    Actual
Local        Foreign
Costs     Exchanze Costs      Total            Total
Subloan Covenant     19.56          13.11          32.67             30.19
Services and
Equipment           1.96           1.50           3.46              3.14
Uhallocated            -              -               .37              -
Total                                          36.50             33.33
3. Pro1ect Financing
(SDR Million)
Source                            Credit Agreement      Final      Comments
IDAs  Subloan Component               22.87             20.30
Services and Equipment           3.46             2.09
Unallocated                       .37               -
26.70            22.39
Domestic                               9.80             10.94      Zstimate Includes
allowance for
undocumentd costs
of subborrowers
equal to lO of
subloan amount.
36.50            33.33



- 53 -
5. Proiect Results
Ahprisal    Estimated at            Estimated at
A. Daiect Effects                    Z611MU       Closing Date         Pull Develougmnt
1.  Per.ant Jobs Created              25.000        19.379                 11,629
2.  Cost/Job (Take)                   27,500        40,650                 67,750
3.  lural Industries (lmilies         10,000      Component never
sen fitted)                                 isplemented
4.  Credit. Marketing and              8,000      Indeterminate; no
Consultancy Stervices for                   monitoring
Handicraft Exporters                        mechanis was put
(Households Senefitted)                     in place.
5. BSCIC Subcontractlng  exchange,    2,000       Indeterminates no
Subsector Programs   Pilot                  monitoring
Projects, etc. (Pim                         mechanLsm was put
senefitted)                                 In place.
6. Export and Product Development
Trips Overseas                     100            so
Firm   enofitted                 8,000      Indetermnates; no
monitoring
mechanism vas put
In place.
7. Leather Facilitles
(Small Tanneries Senfitted)       200                           If comon facilities
privatized or
transferred, likely
to achieve
objectives.
S. Study
1. Nam
Bural Industrialization Study
2. Pur-cose
To help the Planning CoMission study the potential in and needed
institutional services for rural enterprise development. Emphsis
on identlfying prauising new and existing rural enterprises which
procoes agricultural products, provide manufactured goods and repair
services for local markets, or make ancillary parts for other industries.
3. Status
Completed
4. impact of Study
Provided 40 Upsila dbnelopuent plans and a comprehenive volum  on
rural Industrialisation issue



-54-
6. Status of Loan Covenants
Section/Covenant                                         Status of Comnliance
3.01  The Borrower shall carry out the project          Delays in implementation.
In conformity with appropriate practices.
3.02, The Borrower shall establish a Refinance          In full compliance.
Unit in Bangladesh Bank (BB) and make it
operational.
3.03  The Borrower shall relend subloans to             In full compliance.
small-scale industries to BB under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in terms snd
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
3.04  The Borrower shall e_loy or cause                 In full compliance
consultants to be employed in carrying            regarding Export
out the various project components.               Promotion Bureau (BPB)
and Institute of Leather
Technology (ILT)
consultants; some delays
In recruiting Bangladesh
Small and Cottage Industry
Corporation (BSCIC)
consultants; and non-
compliance in respect of
consultant.
3.05  The Borrower shall cause goods procured under     In full compliance.
the Project to be maintained and to be used
exclusively for purposes of the Project.
3.06  The Borrower causes
(a)  contract and procurement documents           In full compliance.
to be available to IA upon their
preparation;
(b)  records and adequate procedures to           In full compliance.
be maintained so that progress of
project could be monitored; and
(c) a Project Completion Report to be             In compliance.
submltted to IDA six months after
Closing Date.
3.07  The Borrower shall cause BB tos
(a)  apply satisfactory procedures and            In compliance.
criterLa to review subproject
appraisals by participating banks; and
(b)  approve and refinance subloaru.              In compliance.



- 55 -
3.08  The Borrower shall cause the oexsting Credit       In compliances but rules
Guarantee Scheme to be amended to reflect the      of operation and claims
autonomous responsibilities of the                 procedures not clarified
participating banks, tiering of guarantee          to date.
coverage according to subproject size, and
voluntary nature of such coverage.
3.09  The Borrower shall cause BB to enter into          In full compliance.
Participation Agreement with each of the
participating banks.
3.10  The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of        In full compliance; study
reference of the study on the promotion of         completed July 1987 after
rural Industries are satisfactory to IDA.          initial delays.
3.11  The Borrower shall:
(a)  cause the policies, operating procedures      In compliance.
and first year action plan of the Light
Industry and handicraft Export
Development Program to be submitted to
IDA by January 31, 1981;
(b)  cause BSCIC to furnish IDA with first         In compliance.
year action plan and a plan on its
organization and training requirements
by January 31, 1981; and
(c)  cause to be timely prepared annual            IDA did not monitor.
work program in respect of all
work by January 1 of each year.
4.01  (a)  The Borrower shall cause to be                in full compliance.
maintaineds (i) accounts and financial
statements of DI and each of the
participating banks; and (ii) records
and separate accounts of the other
participating agencies:
(b)  The Borrower shall retain, or cause to        In full compliance.
be retained, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records evidencing
the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals were made from the Credit;
(c)  The Borrower shalls Mi) cause an audit        Audits were invariably
satisfactory to IDA by independent and        late and of doubtful
qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to IDA       quality.
copies of such audited statements; no
later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year; and (iii) furnish
or cause to be furnished to IDA such
other Information as IDS may reasonably
request from time to time.



- 56 -
7.   Use of Bank Resources a/
Stage of                                   go. of     Days in
Project Cbcle        Month/Year            Persons     Field     Specialization bl
Preparation          March-April 1979         1          5           FA
Preparation          August 1979              1          4           PA
Preparation          November 1979            1          7           VA
Appraisal            February-March 1980      4         25            VA, SC
Post-appraisal       June-July 1980           1          3           PA
Preeffectiveness    November 1980             1          7           PA
Supervision          February-March 1981      2          6           PA
Supervision          July 1981                1          8           PA
Supervision          October 1981             1          4           PA
Supervision          June 1982                2         12           PA
Supervision          July-August 1984         2         13           PA
Supervision          may 1985                 1         12           PA
SuperviLsion         October 1985             2          9           PA
Supervision          July 1986                1         11           VA
Supervision          November 1988            3          7           VA, EC
a/ Notes Only one Form 590, dated November 13, 1985, was found In the files,
for the supervision amssion in October 1985. The overall rating of the
project then was 4, i . one that encountered *serious probleu_.
b/ EC - Economist; PA - Financial Analyst/Operations OfficerlSSl specialist.



