Document of                    FfE
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3017-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
August 13, 1980
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 36.30 (selling) and
36.25 (buying) to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the
US Dollar and, consequently, the Taka/US Dollar rate is subject to change,
averaging about Tk 15.5/US$ over the past two years. The rate below has
been used throughout the report.
US$1         = Tk 15.5
Tk 1         = US$0.0645
Tk 1 million = US$64,500
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BADC   -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BCIC   -  Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
BHMC   -  Bangladesh Handicrafts Marketing Corporation
BIBM   -  Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management
BIDS   -  Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
BJMC   -  Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BSB    -  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSCIC  -  Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
BSFC   -  Bangladesh Sugar and Food Corporation
BSIC   -  Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation
BSRS   -  Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha Bank
BTMC   -  Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
EPB    -  Export Promotion Bureau
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
ILT    -  Institute of Leather Technology
IRDP   -  Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS    -  Krishi Samabaya Samity (Village Level Cooperative Society)
NSIC   -  National Small Industry Corporation Ltd. of India
SCI    -  Small and Cottage Industry
SID    -  Small Industry Department
SSI    -  Small Scale Industry, excluding Cottage
SSI II - Second Small Scale Industry Project
SSI III- Third Small Scale Industry Project
TCCA   -  Thana Central Cooperative Authority
XPL    -  Export Performance License



BANGLADESH                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .........          ................................       1
II.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND ................................                  3
A.  Economic Setting .......           ........................     3
B.  Industrial Structure and Performance ....           .......      3
C.  Characteristics and Role of Small and Cottage
Industries .         ..................................      4
D.  Industrial Policy Framework .....            ...............    6
E.  Financing Small Industries .....            ................     7
F.  Technical Service Agencies .....            ................    9
III.   STRATEGY FOR SMALL AND COTTAGE INDUSTRY
DEVELOPMENT ......................................                9
A. Improving Performance of Organized Small
Industries ...................................               .9
B.  Exports of Light Industrial and Handicraft
Products .....................................              11
C.  Developing Selected Rural Enterprises ....           ......    12
IV.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ...............................                14
A.  Objectives, Scope, and Institutional
Arrangements .................................              14
B.  Subloan Component ..............................               17
1.  SCI Refinance Unit--Bangladesh Bank .... ....             17
2.  Eligibility, Terms, and Conditions .... .....              20
3.  Participating Credit Institutions ....          ......    24
C.  Technical and Marketing Component ....            ..........   26
1. BSCIC--Services for Organized SSIs .26
2.  Services for Private Sector Tanneries    ......            31
3.  Export Promotion Bureau Program ....          ........     32
4.  Rural Enterprise Development--IRDP .... ......             33
5.  Study of Rural Enterprise Development    ......            37
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Bangladesh in February-March 1980. The mission comprised N. Barry,
S. Kandel, J. Pernia, and C. Punsalan.
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by tecipients only in the performance
of theit ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT ................................         37
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .41
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS..... .   43
ANNEX 1  Profile of Subprojects Financed under Credits 353-BD and 825-BD
ANNEX 2  Supporting Tables
1 - Geographical Distribution of Small Scale Industries
2 - Distribution of Large and Small Scale Industries by
Subsector
3 - Indicators of Performance in Large and Small Scale
Industries
4 - Demand for Credit by Small and Cottage Industry
(FY81-FY83)
5 - Interest Rate Structure
6 - Estimated Project Costs
7 - Projected Disbursement Schedule
ANNEX 3 Supporting Documents Available in Project File.



BANGLADESH
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I.   Background
1.01.     The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is giving high priority to small
and cottage industry (SCI) development in meeting its growth and employment
objectives during the Second Five Year Plan period (FY81-85). IDA has helped
finance two small industry projects in Bangladesh. GOB has requested a third,
significantly larger IDA credit to assist in providing needed services for
this sector. This report recommends an IDA credit of SDR 26.7 million (US$35
million) with SDR 22.9 million (US$30 million) for subloans for viable SCIs
and SDR 3.8 million (US$5 million) in technical and marketing services for
promising segments of the SCI sector.
1.02.     Past SSI Projects.  The first small-scale industry project (Credit
353-BD), approved in December 1972, provided US$3 million to finance foreign
exchange portions of loans to small industries and a consultant to assist the
Bangladesh Small Industry Corporation (BSIC) 1/ in subproject appraisal.
Under the project, BSIC was responsible for screening, appraising and super-
vising subprojects. Participating commercial banks assessed creditworthiness
of clients once subprojects were approved by BSIC, disbursed funds, and
collected repayments; the banks had veto power on BSIC's decision to finance a
subproject. Repayment risks were split 50:50 between BSIC and the banks. As
indicated in the Project Completion Report of May 1979 (PPAR No. 2982), the
objectives and impact of Credit 353-BD were modest. Thirty-eight subprojects
were financed, mainly in synthetic textiles and oil milling, in the three
major urban centers. Repayment performance, initially poor, has improved as
the banks have increased attention to follow-up and collections in response to
supervision efforts by IDA.   Major problems with Credit 353-BD stemmed from
the split of responsibilities between BSCIC and the commercial banks and
weaknesses in BSCIC's appraisal and follow-up performance. As of February 28,
1980, arrears represented about 35% of amounts due vs. 61% as of June 30,
1978. 2/   Further efforts are needed to improve collections.
1.03      Lessons learned from Credit 353-BD were incorporated in the design
and institutional arrangements for the second small-scale industry project
(SSI II) (Credit 825-BD). The US$7 million credit has been effective since
September 1978. Local and foreign exchange credit for SCIs has been provided
through the two major commercial banks, Janata and Sonali, with an 18 month
transitional period of joint appraisal by the lending bank and BSCIC, followed
by autonomous appraisal by the banks. SSI II has provided consultancy to help
BSCIC establish systematic promotion and extension services. Under the cot-
tage industry component, the Bangladesh Handicraft Marketing Corporation (BHMC)
has provided marketing and technical services to groups of jute, cane, and
bamboo handicraft producers.
1/   The Bangladesh Small Industry Corporation (BSIC) was merged with the
Bangladesh Cottage Industry Corporation (BCIC) in 1975. BSCIC is a semi-
autonomous government corporation, under the Ministry of Industries,
responsible for development of small-scale and cottage industries.
2/   Some repayments are being made on most subloans financed under Credit
35 3-BD.



- 2 -
1.04      Commitments under the subloan component proceeded well ahead of
schedule. As of June 30, 1980, the US$6.2 million subloan component was
committed by the banks. IDA approvals total about US$4.7 million. IDA
disbursements and L/C openings represent about 25% of the subloan component.
Janata and Sonali Banks have established strong Small Industry Departments
(SIDs) at headquarters and have trained over 80 small industry specialists
in the branches. The transitional phase of joint appraisal proved cumbersome
particularly since BSCIC's management initially was reluctant to relinquish
control over SCI subproject appraisal.  However, the banks performed well
with BSCIC's involvement in appraisal having become marginal. In November
1979, GOB and IDA reviewed SCI lending performance of Janata and Sonali; it
was determined that they had demonstrated satisfactory appraisal skills, and
that participating banks should have autonomous SCI appraisal and supervision
responsibility under the proposed Third Small-Scale Industry Project (SSI
III). As of June 30, 1980, 146 subprojects had been approved by the banks.
Comparisons of subproject appraisal reports indicate that, in accordance with
the eligibility criteria established, subprojects under Credit 825-BD have
been more varied and geographically dispersed, more labor-intensive, and more
dependent upon local inputs than those financed under Credit 353-BD. Annex 1
compares employment impact, use of local inputs, and regional dispersal of the
two projects. Developments under Credit 825-BD provide the institutional base
for sizeable involvement by IDA in SCI lending.
1.05      The technical service component has been useful in helping BSCIC
develop systematic tools for promotion and extension work. Some area and
subsector potential studies have been completed; project profiles have been
prepared; and diagnostic, monitoring and evaluation systems have been installed.
The handicraft marketing component of SSI II has had considerable impact; BHMC
has organized about 1,500 jute, cane and bamboo artisans into associations;
extension workers have helped improve production methods and quality; and
sales trips have resulted in doubling of BHMC's exports of products of these
artisan associations.
1.06      SSI III.  SSI III would build on and extend institutional capabil-
ities developed under the first and second projects. The three largest
commercial banks and the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) would be responsible for
subproject selection, appraisal, supervision and collections. An SCI refinance
facility is being established in Bangladesh Bank to enable rapid subproject
review and refinance of SCI sub-loans made by the participating banks. Three
major SCI segments would receive attention under the technical and marketing
components: (a) organized small industries, mainly serving local markets; (b)
export enterprises in handicraft and light industrial product lines; and (c)
agro-related small enterprises. BSCIC would be assisted in strengthening and
decentralizing extension services for organized small industries, with project
elements including a subcontracting exchange, sub-sector programs, and pilot
projects with private participation. The Institute of Leather Technology
would provide common facilities and technical services to small- and medium-
scale tanneries. The Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) would manage an export and
product development program for handicraft and light industrial products,
which would finance consultancy and trips for exporters. The cooperative
network would be used to promote agro-related rural enterprises such as
beekeeping, small livestock and fishponds among a target group of landless and
marginal farm families.



- 3 -
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      During the 1970s, foodgrain production in Bangladesh did not keep
pace with increases in population. Economic growth was uneven, averaging
slightly over 5% p.a. since 1975/76, when real GDP recovered to the pre-
independence level. Industrial promotion was concentrated on larger, rela-
tively capital intensive industries; employment levels stagnated and real
wages declined. Economic growth decreased to some 3% in 1979/80, mainly due
to reduced grain output caused by poor weather. Due to food shortages and
rising petroleum prices, inflation accelerated, inequalities in income distri-
bution were aggravated, and the balance of payments position remained precarious.
2.02      In the short term, GDP could again achieve a 5% growth rate if
weather is reasonably good and if crucial inputs such as fertilizers, cement,
petroleum and spare parts are available. The draft Second Five Year Plan
sets ambitious goals including attainment of self-sufficiency in food and an
average 8% annual growth rate in industry. Successful execution will require
a major domestic savings effort, efficient use of scarce resources, and
significantly improved implementation capability. Continuous efforts will
be required in expanding the use of modern agricultural inputs, improving
family planning, increasing efficiency in public corporations, and encouraging
private sector investment. Unless employment opportunities outside agricul-
ture increase, incomes of landless and marginal farm families are likely to
continue deteriorating in real terms. Measures to accelerate appropriate
industrial development therefore are crucial.
B. Industrial Structure and Performance
Role of Industry
2.03      In 1979/80, the industrial sector 1/ contributed about 11% to GDP.
Large and medium industries, mainly in the public sector, account for about
50% of industrial value added; private registered and unregistered SCIs
contribute the other half, accounting for about 90% of value added in private
industry. 2/  The public manufacturing sector consists of about 300 units under
seven corporations; these include jute, the largest export industry, and such
import-substituting industries as textiles, chemicals, pulp and paper, and
1/   Excluding the construction sector.
2/   The official industrial production index and national accounts data
underestimate the contribution of unregistered industries; the ratio in
value added by large vs. small registered industries is about 60:40.



- 4 -
engineering. The SCI sector is composed of about 30,000 registered firms 1/
(excluding handlooms) and roughly half a million cottage and rural enterprises.
Large and medium firms employ about 350,000, while SCIs provide full or part
time employment to roughly 4 to 5 million persons largely in rural areas.
2.04      Recently, GOB has introduced somewhat more liberal industrial
policies and encouraged greater private sector participation.  Industry groups
reserved for the public sector were opened to private investment; limits on
private investment were increased; investment incentives and availability of
term credit for private industry were improved.  However, major efforts still
are required to improve industrial efficiency, capacity utilization and
growth. Capacity utilization in public corporations remains low, due in part
to difficulties in importing inputs and spares, which could be alleviated by
encouraging subcontracting with local firms (paras 3.04, 4.36). The invest-
ment environment would be improved by simplifying and liberalizing investment
approval, import license, and export procedures. 2/
2.05      In the two years following 1976/77, increased public and private
investment aided by liberalized imports pushed real growth of manufacturing
output to over 7% p.a. In 1979/80, due to the surging petroleum and food
import bill, GOB adopted a more restrictive import policy; growth of large and
medium scale manufacturing declined to 3.5% p.a. while SCIs grew by some 6%
p.a. During 1978/79-1979/80, industrial export earnings increased by about
50%, mainly due to favorable international prices for jute and jute goods.
Non-traditional exports, mainly of frozen seafood, leather, newsprint and
handicrafts increased their share of total exports from 10% in 1976/77 to 14%
in 1979/80.
2.06      Small-scale. industry, with its strong links to agriculture, has good
growth prospects if even a portion of the ambitious development plan is
implemented. To realize these prospects, however, SCIs need greater access
to credit, technical, and marketing services.
C. Characteristics and Role of Small and Cottage Industries
2.07      Definition.  GOB recently changed the definition of small-scale indus-
tries to include firms with up to Tk 2.5 million in plant and equipment excluding
land and buildings. Using this definition, small firms account for about 45%
1/   Registered industries are those registered with the Department of Indus-
tries or BSCIC. Registration normally is sought by organized small
industries which require import licenses.
2/   Under the IDA-financed import credit program, the system of export
incentives is being streamlined (World Bank Report No. P-2664-BD,
January 1980). Under the IDA Credit to Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB),
GOB agreed to conduct a study on investment approval procedures for
industry and to implement the recommendations; completion of the study
is expected in the last quarter of 1980.



- 5 -
of registered private firms, 100% of unregistered firms, 80% of industrial
employment, and 50% of investment in industry. Cottage industries are defined
as manufacturing or industrial service activities performed by fewer than 10
workers, normally family members; most operate without electricity. Rural
enterprises are similarly defined, although the category includes agro-related
activities such as beekeeping, small livestock and pond fisheries.
2.08      Geographical and Subsectoral Distribution.  About 50% of registered
SCIs are located in Dacca, with secondary concentrations in Chittagong and
Khulna (Annex 2, Table 1). Unregistered firms are more widely dispersed among
small towns and villages with some clusters in thanas of Dacca, Comilla and
Barisal districts; only about 5% of these units are in larger cities. The
proportion of the rural labor force employed in rural enterprises varies
considerably among thanas, ranging from as high as 55% to as low as 15%. Six
subsectors--food processing, power- and handloom, wood, leather, paper and
metal products--account for about 91% of employment, 90% of investment and 94%
of value added of registered small industries (Annex 2, Table 2). The largest
single group is agro-processing which accounts for 61% of investment, 55% of
employment, and 53% of value added of registered small industries. Among
unregistered SCIs, handloom production accounts for about half of the enter-
prises and 60% of employment, with secondary concentrations in food processing
and cane, bamboo and wood products (Annex 2, Table 2).
2.09      Potential.  Good local market potential exists for industries
processing agricultural, fishing and livestock products. The anticipated
public investment in agriculture is expected to generate additional demand for
implements, spares, repair services, and construction materials. Considerable
potential exists for firms to expand markets through subcontracting to larger
public corporations for spares and components. In rural enterprises, poten-
tial exists in agro-related activities such as beekeeping, small livestock,
and pond fisheries which use local raw materials, have strong local demand,
and limited land, capital, and skill requirements (paras 3.15, 4.49-4.53).
Product and market surveys sponsored by the Export Promotion Bureau indicate
that significant scope exists for expanded exports of handicrafts, finished
leather and leather products, cane and bamboo products, ready made garments,
ceramics and spices. All of these products are or can be made efficiently by
SCIs; most build on traditional skills, use local raw materials and require
labor intensive processes. Improvements are needed in market information,
product quality and design, organization of the decentralized production base,
and contacts with buyers. The proposed project contains components to help
overcome these constraints (paras 4.43-4.46).
2.10      Performance and Efficiency.  Annex 2, Table 3 indicates that SCIs
compare favorably with large firms on efficiency measures in most subsectors
in which SCIs are active. In these major groups, SCIs have lower capital-
labor ratios and higher value added per unit of labor and capital cost. In
1976/77, the rate of return on capital 1/ amounted to 60% for small industries
and 40% for larger firms. Unregistered SCIs showed the highest rates of
1/   Calculated as net earnings over total investment (fixed assets including
permanent working capital).



return in all subsectors in which they are active. These figures contain a
significant margin of error due to accounting and statistical practices, but
do indicate that SCIs compare favorably with large firms on financial and
economic performance, since Bangladesh at present has no special protection
for SCIs which would cause economic distortions.
D. Industrial Policy Framework
2.11      Incentives and Allocations.  The draft Second Five Year Plan states
that priority will be given to development of small and rural enterprises in
meeting industrial growth, employment, and export objectives. GOB intends to
improve services for SCIs rather than relying on differential incentives for
this sector. Measures include: (a) improving refinance facilities for term
credit to SCIs with attractive spreads for the participating banks; (b) encour-
aging decentralization of large firms by encouraging subcontracting links with
small industries; and (c) introducing a system of preferential but not compul-
sory public sector procurement from SCIs. However, the draft of the Industrial
Investment Schedule for 1980-82 as submitted by GOB at negotiations includes
separate allocations for SCIs in a number of product lines. Reserving invest-
ments in the absence of in-depth analysis of economies of scale can lead to
misallocation of scarce resources. GOB intends to use the investment alloca-
tions strictly as indicative guidelines rather than controls. This will be
specified in the Policy Statement accompanying the final Investment Schedule.
SSI III would help finance technical assistance for a study by the Planning
Commission to determine the most promising areas for investment by SCIs, to
enable less reliance on the Investment Schedule as a control mechanism (paras
4.55-4.57).
2.12      Export Incentives and Promotion.  The present incentive framework
for exporters includes income tax rebates, bonded warehouse facilities, export
subsidies, duty reductions, and an export credit guarantee scheme. However,
implementation problems exist and thorough review and streamlining of the
system as envisaged under the Eighth Imports Credit (Credit 980-BD) are neces-
sary. Four areas are of particular importance for SCIs and related exporters.
First, most new and small exporters face difficulties in obtaining pre-export
financing from the commercial banks. The Bangladesh Bank should intensify
its efforts to improve coverage, capitalization, and application procedures
for this scheme. Secondly, procedural complexities hamper implementation of
the import duty drawback system; the progress on the review of the system has
been relatively slow; GOB intends to accelerate the review to meet the com-
pletion date of July 31, 1981 required under the Eighth Import Credit.
Thirdly, the present Export Performance License (XPL) System is complicated
and arbitrary, and does not provide an effective incentive to save foreign
exchange. The Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Governor of Bangladesh
Bank expects to report by end of August 1980 indicating a revised approach on
XPi. allocation including the use of a net foreign exchange criterion. Finally,
while the promotional capabilities of the Export Promotion Bureau have improved,
the'EPB should increase its follow up on matters involving export procedures
and should take the lead in organizing export promotion and product adaptation
efforts in promising non-traditional product lines (paras 3.14, 4.43-4.46).



- 7 -
E. Financing Small Industries
2.13      From 1976/77 to 1978/79, domestic credit by the banking system grew
by some 50%, mainly due to increased lending for jute, imports and agriculture.
In the same period, savings grew sluggishly and commercial banks continued to
rely heavily on refinance from Bangladesh Bank. However, as of July 1979,
credit was tightened as a response to strong inflationary pressures. Lending
to private industry increased from 23% of total industrial credit in 1977/78
to 26% in 1978/79. About 80% of term credit to industry is provided by two
industrial development banks, the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the
Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha Bank (BSRS). Nine commercial banks, six of
which are local and nationalized, provide mainly short term credit, although
roll-overs are common and the banks have increased project-based lending to
SCIs under special schemes. Limited capital market activities are undertaken
by the government-owned Investment Corporation of Bangladesh.
2.14      Term loans to small enterprises account for roughly 25% of term
financing for private industry.  In the past, small amounts of term credit for
SCIs were provided through BSCIC in consortium with the commercial banks.
This consortium arrangement did not work well (para 1.02). Under SSI II,
the banks now are responsible for appraisal, follow up and supervision.
Janata and Sonali, the two largest commercial banks, have built sizeable SIDs
at headquarters and have trained SCI specialists posted to key branches.
Similar capabilities would be established in Agrani and possibly other com-
mercial banks under SSI III. Nearly 50% of BSB's amount of lending is to
small scale industry, mainly to firms with fixed assets of Tk 1.0-2.5 million.
2.15      Since statistics on private industrial investment and financing are
limited, only rough projections of credit demand by SCIs are possible. Figures
indicate that lending to SCIs has increased by about 30% per annum in nominal
terms in the last two years. Demand for credit under SSI II has been strong
with the US$6.2 million subloan component fully committed by the commercial
banks by June 30, 1980, well ahead of schedule; pipelines total about US$4.5
million. An estimate of potential demand for credit by SCIs has been made in
Annex 2, Table 4, based on conservative assumptions on growth of the sector,
the incremental capital/ output ratio (ICOR), and permanent working capital
requirements. Total investment requirements for SCIs 1/ for FY81 and FY82 are
estimated to be about Tk 3.6 billion. This is a conservative assessment
compared to projections for the Second Five Year Plan period which assume a
10% real annual growth rate of private investment. 2/
1/   About Tk 410 million is estimated to be from transport enterprises.
2/   GOB is committed to provide greater incentives to the private sector;
planning authorities expect an immediate positive response by private
entrepreneurs, especially small scale, in the initial period of the
plan.



- 8 -
2.16      Financial institutions have covered only a minor portion of the
financing needs of SCIs. 1/ With increasing willingness and capabilities
by the banks to lend to this sector, it would be reasonable to anticipate
that about one-third of total SCI financing requirements could be covered by
the financial institutions. Taking into account anticipated levels of inter-
national and domestic inflation, demand for credit by SCIs could amount to
roughly US$45 million per year in current prices. In 1978/79, commercial
banks and BSB lent about Tk 70 million (US$4.5 million) in term credit
to SCIs. Assuming that the banks will continue lending US$5.1 million per
annum in current prices to SCIs from their internal resources, the financing
gap could amount to US$40 million per year 2/ or US$80 million over the two
year commitment period. The IDA credit would provide US$30 million to cover
part of this potential financing gap; the remainder would need to be met
through self-finance, informal financing sources, and short term roll-overs.
Interest Rates and Inflation
2.17      Annex 2, Table 5 provides the present interest rate structure in
Bangladesh. Both deposit and lending rates have not changed since 1975/76. 3/
Commercial banks charge 11-12% for industrial loans; BSB and BSRS charge an
average of 11.5%. Cottage industries, with limited access to institutional
finance, borrow from money lenders whose rates are substantially higher.
The rate of inflation, which averaged 12.5% during 1977/78 and 1978/79,
escalated to some 18% by the middle of 1979/80, but has slowed since. The
main factor contributing to the surge in inflation was the increase in food
prices, due to shortages caused by drought. Escalating costs of imported
goods, 4/ adjustments in many administered prices, and rapid liquidity expan-
sion in 1978/79 in the context of-slower economic growth exerted further
pressures. If weather conditions are reasonably good in the period 1980/81-
1981/82, inflation could return to more normal levels of 10-12%. At present,
GOB is actively considering an upward adjustment in general interest rate
levels, which is justified since lending rates are negative in real terms
and have been in all but two years since independence. To ensure that
interest rates are positive in real terms, under this Credit, SCI subloans
would be made at a minimum interest rate of 13% per annum.
1/   An analysis of sources of funds for private industry in 1978/79 indi-
cates that financial institutions provide about 67% of industrial
private investment. However, the proportion of financing from other
sources (e.g., self-finance, money lenders) normally is higher for small
firms, since SCIs generally have much less access to institutional credit
than do larger ones.
2/   Of this, about US$8 million is credit demand by transport SSIs.
3/   Except for deposits in rural areas, for which rates were raised 0.75-
1.5% in July 1978.
4/   In part due to exchange rate changes.



F. Technical Service Agencies
2.18      BSCIC is the government institution responsible for small industry
development. With the shift of SCI lending responsibilities to the banks,
BSCIC's major tasks now are to identify and promote new small industries and
to provide technical services to existing ones. BSCIC has taken some steps
to upgrade these services but considerable improvements still are required
(paras 4.30-4.32). Other specialized agencies exist to assist SCIs in some
priority subsectors. The Export Promotion Bureau now is taking a more active
role in promoting exports by:   helping establish associations; arranging
consultancy in market research, strategy development and product adaptation;
and organizing special fairs. Commercial exporters and private voluntary
organizations play a significant role in organizing the decentralized handi-
craft base for exports. In rural enterprises, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) has promoted some successful agro-related activities, particu-
larly among women's cooperatives.
III. STRATEGY FOR SMALL AND COTTAGE INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT
3.01      Major potential exists for more rapid growth in four major SCI
segments: (a) organized small industries catering to local markets; (b)
exports of light industrial and handicraft products; (c) agro-related rural
enterprises; and (d) cargo trucks. The Third Small Industry Project would
help GOB meet the differing assistance needs of these SCI groups.
A. Improving Performance in Organized Small Industries
3.02      Many organized small industries have strong potential for growth
and productivity improvement, if credit and certain technical and marketing
services are provided as these firms move from small to medium scale. Unlike
many cottage units, many owner-operators of organized small firms bring some
management, marketing and technical knowhow to the enterprise. Most organized
SSIs are located in or near urban areas and towns, enabling cost-effective
credit and other services. Subsector-specific consultancy, general management
advice, common service facilities, and subcontracting exchanges can assist
organized small industry development, if these programs are properly structured.
3.03      Light Engineering and Metal Products.  Light engineering and metal
products SCIs consist of about 3,000-registered manufacturing SSIs, 19,000
service workshops, and 24,000 blacksmith cottage units. Ninety percent of
registered units are located in towns which have access to electricity, water,
and transport. Dominant product lines are machinery spares, vehicle parts,
agricultural tools, hardware and agricultural implements. In the major lines,
small units compare favorably with larger firms in labor intensity, value
added/capital and gross profit/capital ratios (Annex 2, Table 2).
3.04      A recent survey sponsored by BSCIC indicates that capacity utiliza-
tion for engineering SSIs ranges from 15% to 50%, mainly due to marketing



- 10 -
difficulties. The study also determined that growth and productivity improve-
ments, with strong linkage effects, are possible particularly in: components
and spares for industrial equipment, including vehicles and textile machinery;
electrical fittings; hardware; and manufacture and repair of agricultural
and irrigation equipment. These prospects are based on projected increases
in agricultural activity and subcontracting potential from public sector
corporations. The major corporations require about Tk 225 million annually
in foreign exchange for imports of spares and components, mainly in the metal
subsector. Local small engineering firms could manufacture at least 30% of
this value, if some improvements in methods and equipment were made. Credit
and technical services in the engineering subsector should improve utiliza-
tion of existing capacity with investment in new capacity limited largely to
regional repair workshops. A BSCIC subcontracting exchange would be sponsored
under SSI III to facilitate sales by SSIs to public corporations (paras 4.36-
4.37). BSCIC also would develop specialized technical services and subsector
schemes for engineering firms, with particular attention to manufacture and
repair of agricultural tools and equipment (para 4.34-4.35).
3.05      Leather and Leather Goods.  Hides and skins constitute an important
resource of Bangladesh and rank second to jute in export earnings, contribut-
ing Tk 1.5 billion in 1979. Presently, less than 20% of hides and skins are
processed into low grade finished leather for domestic consumption; the
remainder is exported after minimal "wet blue" processing. While the livestock
population is not growing significantly, sizeable potential exists in adding
value to "wet blue" by further processing into crust, finished leather, and
leather products. Net export prices are roughly 40% higher for crust and 60%
higher for finished leather relative to "wet blue". With high labor costs in
developed countries, potential exists for crust and finished leather manufac-
ture in countries such as Bangladesh. Once finishing capacity is increased,
progress can be made in exports of footwear and leather goods. There are
about 170 tanneries in the country, of which about 70 are small scale- units.
About 145 are in Hazaribagh, the traditional tanning center of Dacca; most of
the remainder are in Chittagong. About 10 tanneries in Bangladesh have some
finishing equipment; the rest work mainly with drums, paddles and pits, with
little or no mechanical equipment. Most existing equipment is outmoded and in
disrepair. There are about 62 organized footwear units with annual production
capacity of 2.6 million pairs, and about 12,500 cottage footwear units which
produce between 5 and 15 pairs of hand made shoes per day.
3.06      The major constraints in moving to higher value added products are
lack of equipment and technical knowhow in crust and finishing processes.
Most tanneries do not have qualified technicians who understand the chemical
and mechanical processes involved in leather processing; poor quality control
and processing methods reduce prices that hides and skins can fetch.  The
Institute of Leather Technology in Dacca, involved mainly in training artisans
in tanning and manufacture of footwear and leather goods, provides some tech-
nical services to tanneries in Hazaribagh. SSI III would help increase export
earnings from finished leather by establishing a program to provide common
finishing facilities and technical services to private tanneries under the
Institute of Leather Technology (paras 4.40-4.42).



- 1i -
B. Exports of Light Industrial and Handicraft Products
3.07      The importance of promoting manufactured exports to achieve growth,
employment and foreign exchange objectives has been recognized by GOB in the
Second Five Year Plan. At present, capacity utilization and production
efficiency in many private enterprises are hampered by local market constraints
due to stagnant purchasing power. Bangladesh could benefit from this greater
export orientation, focusing on those subsectors in which low labor costs or
local raw materials give Bangladesh potential comparative advantages.
3.08      Based on analyses of markets and supply capabilities for non-
traditional exports from Bangladesh, the EPB has identified several handicraft
and light industrial groups with immediate export growth potential, provided
that improvements in quality, design, and production organization are made.
These lines include: leather and leather products; cane, bamboo and knocked-
down wooden furniture; specialized handloom textiles and garments; brassware;
ceramics; jute and other handicrafts. Nearly all of these products are made
by SCIs, are based on local raw materials, and generate employment with
limited capital investment. To meet quality and style requirements, Bangladeshi
leather goods would require: product improvement, with attention to selective
mechanization; improved accessories; and standard sizes for US and European
markets. Cooperation among tanneries, artisans and exporters is needed since
the quality of end products depends upon ready availability of good finished
leather and quick responses to fashion changes. Export prospects in garments
are good, particularly in the US market, assuming continued freedom from import
quotas. Studies indicate that the quality and price of readymade apparel by
major manufacturers in Bangladesh meet medium quality export standards. While
garment manufacturers now use imported inputs, there is scope for garments
using local handloom cloth and labor intensive embroidery work, and for ancil-
laries providing accessories and packaging materials. The industry requires
improved export links, bonded warehouses, export financing and expeditious
issuance of import licenses. 1/ In wood and cane furniture and other house-
hold articles, Bangladesh has the advantage of low wages, a large pool of
skilled artisans, and an abundance of the needed raw materials. Use of
simpler knocked-down designs is adviseable to respond to market demands,
cut transport costs, and achieve uniformity.
3.09      Assistance Needs.  In these subsectors, exporters already play an
important role in organizing output of decentralized producers providing
orders, designs, quality control and inputs. However, they have difficulty
in meeting export requirements due to limited export contacts and problems
in the supply base. Exports could be increased significantly by helping
exporters make improvements in organization, methods, tools, and designs.
To address these constraints, the proposed Credit includes an export and
product development program managed by EPB which would assist exporters in
improving decentralized manufacture and export of selected lines (paras
4.43-4.46). A portion of the subloan component is earmarked to provide term
1/   With these improvements, the EPB projects foreign exchange earnings of
about Tk 100 million for the two-year period 1980/81-1981/82.



- 12 -
credit from the banks to exporters for financing processing and storage
facilities as well as investment and working capital requirements of producers
in the exporters' networks (para 4.16).
C. Developing Selected Rural Enterprises
3.10      Cottage Industries.  A recent study performed by BIDS 1/ indicates
that roughly 4-5 million mainly rural dwellers may be engaged in cottage manu-
facturing or repair operations. About 26% of these workers are landless,
while 52% are marginal farmers who require activities outside agriculture to
reach subsistence. 2/ As many as 80% depend on cottage industry as their
primary source of income. Only about 30% have completed primary education.
Clearly, cottage industries are of critical importance in alleviating acute
unemployment and deteriorating incomes among the rural poor.
3.11      Constraints.  However, characteristics of many cottage industries
inhibit cost-effective institutional assistance to promote growth and produc-
tivity improvements. First, only a few cottage industry groups have signi-
ficant geographical concentrations to facilitate credit or technical programs.
Textiles, food and forestry products account for over 90% of cottage enter-
prises and employment. Nine product lines 3/ represent over 80% of units
and workers. The only groups with sizeable rural concentrations are: hand-
looms; gur-making; cane and bamboo; and cordage, rope and handicrafts of jute.
Relatively high concentrations in towns are found in repair services, paper
products, metal items, bakeries, footwear manufacture, soaps, and dairy
products. Traditional industry groups--blacksmithy, pottery, oils and fats,
repair of leather goods, and jewelry--are scattered and account for less than
5% of total employment. Second, the tiny size of most cottage industries
inhibits cost effective services. Over 60% of the enterprises have three or
fewer workers and only about 5% have ten or more. Most firms consist largely
of family proprietors and unpaid family workers; 4/ the traditional, family-
based nature of most cottage industries inhibits receptivity to hiring outside
laborers, introducing new production techniques, or responding to changes in
market demand.  The lack of entrepreneurial traits among most cottage indus-
trialists makes questionable the benefits of expensive technical services.
Also, most cottage industries cater to the demands of the rural poor, whose
purchasing power has been deteriorating. Finally, many cottage industry
groups (e.g., pottery, brass, blacksmithy) face growing difficulties competing
with less costly and more durable modern substitutes.
1/   Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies, Rural Industries Study
Project, May 1979.
2/   Bureau of Statistics, Land Occupancy Survey of Bangladesh, Dacca, 1977.
3/   Handlooms; cordage and rope; rice milling; gur; cane and bamboo mats;
woodworking; tobacco; tailoring; and wood, cane and bamboo containers.
4/   Firms which average at least 8 workers are:  brick making (50); jute
baling (27); structural clay products (16); tobacco (12); lac and
shellac (11); metal furniture and utensils (9); and preservation of
fruit (8).



- 13 -
3.12      Selection Criteria.  The most promising strategy for promoting
cottage industry development would appear to be by focusing on those product
groups: (a) with identified export or local market growth potential; (b)
with significant geographical concentration to enable cost-effective services;
and (c) for which productivity improvements are likely to result in significant
increases in employment and earnings.
3.13      Local Market Prospects.  Cottage industry product groups catering
to local demand which appear to meet these criteria are: repair operations;
metal products, except blacksmithy; bakeries and dairies; jute baling; lac
and shellac; footwear manufacture; soap and cosmetics; bricks, tiles and other
structural clay products; and fruit preservation. Most of these product groups
are concentrated in towns rather than villages, average more than 10 workers
per unit, have some degree of mechanization, and tend to be owned and managed
by relatively young entrepreneurs. They therefore lend themselves to tech-
nical and managerial services similar to those of somewhat larger organized
SSIs (para 3.02). Technical services could be provided by BSCIC and credit
by the commercial banks.
3.14      Export Prospects.  Several cottage industry groups have significant
export prospects. Recent performance and market analyses indicate that the
most promising lines are: cane, bamboo and wood items; specialized handloom
products; ceramics; and jute goods. These lines are characterized by size-
able geographical concentrations in rural areas, household level organization,
reliance on local raw materials (except handlooms) and local marketing diffi-
culties. Major needs in these product groups are: adaptation in product
design to meet specific export requirements; improvements in quality and pro-
ductivity through quality control, selective mechanization and improved organi-
zation; and better relationships with importers who are willing to involve
themselves intensively in development of the supply base for exports. Public
institutions are in a relatively weak position to provide these services.  SSI
III will assist exporters in improving sales, the supply base and earnings
of artisans (para 4.43-4.46).
3.15      Agro-related Rural Enterprises.  In addition to cottage manufacturing
and repair operations, rural enterprises include agro-related activities such
as beekeeping, pond fisheries, goat rearing and poultry. Except for pond
fisheries, these are predominantly household activities. Unlike many tradi-
tional cottage industries catering to local demand, these activities are
profitable, can be replicated in many rural areas of Bangladesh since they are
not skill-based, are not as dependent on special raw material endowments, and
have sizable untapped local market potential. They can be developed on a
concentrated basis reducing administrative costs of credit and technical
service systems. Since most raw materials and markets are local, requirements
for logistical support are reduced. These rural enterprises lend themselves
to widespread adoption by landless, marginal farmers and women since they
require limited land, capital and technical knowhow. With small time inputs,
these activities can provide opportunities for rapid and sustained increases
in incomes for selected target groups. Under SSI III, these activities would
be promoted by IRDP and selected TCCA (paras 4.47-4.54).



- 14 -
3.16      Cargo Transport.  Development of private cargo transport enterprises
is given priority by GOB. Financing of small scale cargo transport projects
would be eligible under the proposed SS1 III Credit. Most financing is expec-
ted to be in cargo trucks, since investment requirements for water transport
are normally beyond the scope of small-scale enterprises. Financing for larger
road and water cargo transport projects has been and would be available from
development banks like BSB and BSRS. 1/ Under SSI III, up to $4.5 million (Tk
70 million) or 15% of the subloan component would be available for financing
cargo trucks with priority to trucks servicing the fertilizer sector. 2/ For
subloans beyond US$4.5 million, prior IDA authorization would be required,
with priority given to fertilizer transport needs. This component would
supplement existing credit provided by commercial banks; in 1978, credit to
land transport increased by Tk 113 million; total credit outstanding was Tk
452 million. Commercial bank credit, including the proposed credit component,
could provide over 50% of the estimated investment requirement for cargo
trucks (para 2.15).
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives, Scope and Institutional Arrangements
4.01      The principal objectives of the proposed project would be to
increase productivity, earnings, employment and exports in the SCI sector by
addressing credit, technical, and marketing constraints in three major seg-
ments: (a) organized small industries and cargo transport enterprises serving
local markets; (b) exporters and decentralized manufacturers of handicrafts
and light industrial products; (c) agro-related rural enterprises; and (d)
cargo transport.  To meet these objectives, this US$50 million projezt would
have two major components, with IDA providing US$30 million for subloans and
about US$5 million for technical and marketing services. 3/
4.02      The project would build on and extend SCI lending capabilities
developed within the leading commercial banks under SSI II (Credit 825-BD),
incorporating lessons learned from Credit 353-BD (para 1.02). The technical
service component would seek to: strengthen promotion and extension services
for organized small industries; facilitate links between small enterprises and
1/   BSB and BSRS have available credit lines under which water transport
projects are eligible; a second IDA credit to BSB to be prepared in
1980/81 and would give due consideration to demand for credit by
medium-scale cargo transport enterprises.
2/   This financial assistance would help the private sector procure spares
and transport equipment to meet fertilizer transport requirements as
projected under the proposed Fertilizer Transport Project.
3/   Private sponsors would provide about US$13.08 million equivalent in equity
and GOB or the implementing agencies would provide about US$1.92 million
for incremental staff expenditures, land and buildings.



- 15 -
larger manufacturing and exporting firms; and use the rural thana and village
cooperative network for rural enterprise promotion. The project would be
national in scope. New and existing SCI firms and cooperatives engaged in
a wide range of manufacturing, industrial service, transport and agro-related
activities would be eligible for credit. Technical services for organized
small industries 1/ would focus on needs in promising producL groups: light
engineering; selected agro-industries; finished leather; and wood products.
Export promotion and product adaptation efforts for handicrafts and light
industries would concentrate on: cane, bamboo and wood items; leather pro-
ducts; specialized textiles and garments; and ceramics. Rural enterprises
would be promoted mainly in beekeeping, small livestock, and fish ponds.
4.03      Subloan Component.  The major credit institutions would be respon-
sible for subproject appraisal, onlending, supervision, and collections.
The three largest commercial banks (Janata, Sonali, and Agrani Banks) and
the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) would be eligible for initial participation.
SCI lending activities would be encouraged and supported by:
(a) supplying US$30 million equivalent to help fill the gap
between SCI term lending requirements and credit resources
available for SCIs (para 4.16);
(b) establishing an SCI Refinance Unit within Bangladesh Bank to
do rapid subproject review and refinance of subloans made by
the participating credit institutions to eligible SCIs (paras
4.08-4.12); and
(c) providing inducements to the credit institutions to increase
financing of viable SCIs through differential spreads, an
improved credit guarantee scheme, and simplified authorization
procedures (paras 4.11, 4.17, and 4.20).
4.04      Technical Service Component.  The technical and marketing service
component would:
(a) strengthen BSCIC's promotion and extension services for organ-
ized small industries by instituting changes in organization
and staffing and by implementing subsector-specific schemes, a
subcontracting exchange, and district-level extension programs
(paras 4.33-4.39);
(b) establish common finishing facilities and technical services
for small- and medium-scale leather tanneries under the
Institute of Leather Technology (paras 4.40-4.42);
(c) promote expanded exports of light industrial and handicrafts
products by establishing an Export and Product Development
Program in the Export Promotion Bureau, to finance assistance
1/   With fixed assets (original costs) of about Tk 500,000 to Tk 2.5 million.



- 16 -
to exporters through (i) consultancy in product adaptation
and supply development; and (ii) participation in sales and
exposure trips (paras 4.43-4.46);
(d) provide technical services, organizational assistance and
credit channelling to establish agro-related rural enter-
prises through IRDP and selected TCCA 1/ (paras 4.47-4.54);
(e) finance technical assistance for a Planning Commission study
to determine potential for rural enterprises and appropriate
institutional services (paras 4.55-4.57); and
(f)  strengthen capabilities of the major credit institutions to
do appraisal-based lending to SCIs by providing accelerated
training of branch level staff of Janata, Sonali and Agrani;
establishing a Small Industry Department in Agrani; and
providing short-term advisors to help further improve tech-
nical appraisal capabilities of the SIDs (para 4.28).
4.05      Financing Plan.  Total costs for SSI III would be US$50 million,
of which IDA would provide SDR 26.70 million (US$35 million equivalent) or
70%. For the subloan component, the IDA US$30 million equivalent would cover
100% of the refinance of subloan amounts; this would represent an average of
70% of subproject costs, with the-remainder coming from sponsors' equity.
Under the technical and marketing service elements, the IDA US$5 million
equivalent portion would cover costs of equipment, training, advisors, and
trips. GOB's contribution of US$1.9 million equivalent would cover incre-
mental staff and increased salary-expenditures, overheads, and land and
buildings for subsector schemes and pilot projects. The following table
summarizes project costs and sources of finance:
1/   Integrated Rural Development Program and Thana Central Cooperative
Authorities.



- 17 -
Estimated Project Costs /a
(US$ million equivalent)
GOB/
Imple-
menting    SCI
IDA      IDA      Agency   Sponsors
(Foreign) (Local)  (Local)  (Local)   Total
Subloan Component                   17.20    12.80        -      12.86    42.86
Services and Equipment
(a)  BSCIC-Organized SSIs            0.77      0.64    0.55       0.12      2.08
(b) Institute of Leather
Technology                   1.05      0.58    0.76         -        2.39
(c)  EPB Program                     0.60     0.20    0.10        0.10      1.00
(d)  IRDP Rural Enterprises          0.01      0.02    0.07         -       0.10
(e)  Planning Commission Study    0.20        0.20    0.40          -       0.80
(f)  Consultancy and Training--
Bangladesh Bank and
Credit Institutions          0.26       -       0.04         -       0.30
Subtotal, Services and               2.89      1.64    1.92       0.22      6.67
Equipment
Unallocated                          0.47       -       -          -        0.47
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         20.56    14.44    1.92        13.08    50.00
/a   A more detailed cost table, with assumptions, is provided in Annex 2,
Table 6. Total estimated consultancy costs amount to $2.83 million
covering 454 man-months (average cost of $6,230 per man-month); IDA
would finance $2.43 million or 86% of total cost and the balance of
$0.40 million would be to the account of the respective implementing
agencies (paras 4.09, 4.28, 4.32, 4.35, 4.37, 4.41, 4.43, 4.48, and
4.57).
B. Subloan Component
1.   SCI Refinance Unit  - Bangladesh Bank
4.06      Bangladesh Bank operates a refinance facility which entitles commer-
cial banks to amounts equal to as much as 5% of their total deposits to help
meet the banks' liquidity requirements. Bangladesh Bank also has several
specific refinance schemes for commercial banks' advances to the jute, sugar,
and export industries. In addition to its normal central banking functions,
Bangladesh Bank has special lending schemes for small scale agriculture,
industry, and commerce. Refinance on small loans is available under a scheme
which sets a target that 2% of each bank's deposits will be used for small
enterprise loans of up to Tk 100,000; SCI borrowers are to account for 50% of
the target. The IDA Credits complement this scheme.



- 18 -
4.07      Under SSI II, representatives of the Banking Department of Bangladesh
Bank chaired meetings of the review committee which screened subloan applica-
tions, helped arrange joint appraisals by the banks and BSCIC, and made recom-
mendations to the banks regarding treatment of appraised subprojects. Since
the banks have demonstrated satisfactory appraisal skills, they would assume
autonomous appraisal and supervision responsibilities under SSI III (para
1.04). The subproject review committee would be disbanded. A Credit Coor-
dinating Committee would monitor implementation of the subloan and related
technical service components of SSI III. Bangladesh Bank's experience in
industrial refinance and small industry lending operations places it in a
strong position to assume a major portion of the subproject review functions
performed by IDA under Credit 825-BD. 1/
4.08      In July 1980, Bangladesh Bank established an Industrial Credit
Division, with responsibilities for industrial refinance and SCI schemes
transferred from the Banking Department. The Industrial Credit Division
would include an SCI Refinance Unit responsible for channelling IDA and other
funds 2/ for SCI subloans made by the participating credit institutions (para
4.13). This Unit is being established with separate policies, operating
procedures, and accounts satisfactory to IDA and initial staff with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to Bangladesh Bank and IDA. Under the
proposed project, staff of the SCI Unit would perform the following functions
for the participating credit institutions: review larger SCI appraisals and
refinance eligible subloans; monitor appraisal, supervision and collection
standards; organize training programs; collect repayments of refinanced
amounts; and report regularly to IDA on SCI lending operations. Bangladesh
Bank would make the necessary funds available from its reserves to cover the
lag between Bangladesh Bank's refinance of SCI subloan disbursements by the
participating banks and its withdrawals from IDA.
4.09        Organization and Staffing.  The initial professional staff of
the SCI Refinance Unit would consist of an officer-in-charge (Senior Deputy
Chief Officer), a Deputy Chief Officer, an Assistant Chief Officer, one
accountant (Banking Officer), two engineers and three financial analysts
(Banking Officers). This staffing is considered adequate for the first year
of operations, commencing by January 1981. Two key staff members are in
place; Bangladesh Bank is recruiting the remainder, to enable outside
training prior to project implementation.. Additional professional staff,
particularly for subproject review, would be required in subsequent years.
Financial analysts and engineers would review subprojects and monitor the
banks' operations; accounts officers would deal with disbursements, collec-
tions, accounting and reporting. Management and staff of the SCI Unit would
have qualifications, training and experience acceptable to Bangladesh Bank
1/   Under Credit 825-BD, all subloans above Tk 100,000 have required prior
authorization by IDA. Subloans above this limit have represented 96%
'by amount and 40% by number of subloans.
2/   Other funds would include outside financing of small industries as well
as GOB cash foreign exchange allocations for SCI. It would not include
funds available under general credit lines to BSB.



- 19 -
and to IDA. 1/ Bangladesh Bank intends to have four to six staff of the SCI
Refinance Unit trained in foreign credit institutions with experience in
industrial refinance or lending prior to project implementation; GOB intends
to request that this training be financed from an IDA Technical Assistance
Credit. Funds for foreign training of an additional six staff members would
be made available under the proposed project. For the first year of opera-
tions, an advisor (12 man-months) would help develop and install detailed
operating procedures and train staff of the SCI Unit. Qualifications, terms
of reference, and terms and conditions of his assignment would be satisfactory
to IDA.
4.10      Policies and Procedures.  During negotiations agreement has been
reached between GOB/Bangladesh Bank and IDA on the substance of a draft
statement of policies and operating procedures for the SCI Unit. This state-
ment specifies: objectives and eligibility for refinance; review procedures;
minimum lending rates and spreads; monitoring responsibilities; and reporting
requirements. This agreed statement of policies and procedures, which should
form an adequate basis for the SCI Unit's operations, would be adopted by
Bangladesh Bank prior to credit effectiveness; any modifications would
require IDA approval.
4.11      With the review and refinance mechanism in the Bangladesh Bank and
experience gained by the commercial banks and BSB under prior IDA credits, a
significant reduction in the proportion of subprojects requiring prior IDA
authorization would be justified for Janata, Sonali and Bangladesh Shilpa
Banks. Under SSI III, refinance for subloans of up to Tk 500,000 would be
granted by Bangladesh Bank on the basis of the credit institutions' appraisals,
provided summary statements indicate that financial viability and other eli-
gibility criteria have been met. 2/ Subloans of Tk 500,001-1,500,000, once
sanctioned by the participating bank, would require prior authorization for
refinance by Bangladesh Bank, with the SCI unit reviewing financial, technical,
marketing and economic aspects of the banks' appraisals. Subloans of over
Tk 1.5 million would require review and authorization by Bangladesh Bank and
IDA prior to eligibility for refinance and withdrawals from IDA.
4.12      To ensure expeditious subproject review, the participation agree-
ments between Bangladesh Bank and the credit institutions would state the
intention of the SCI Unit to complete reviews within two weeks. The SCI
1/   The head of the SCI Unit would need to be experienced in industrial
credit and refinance. Financial analysts would be business or economics
graduates with at least two years of appraisal experience, preferably
in industiial credit.  Engineers would have at least two years of experi-
ence; accounts officer should have proper accounting qualifications.
2/   In requesting refinance for these smaller subloans, participating banks
'would submit statements listing key characteristics of the subprojects.
Appraisal reports should be submitted on a sample basis; SCI Refinance
Unit staff and IDA missions would do regular spot checks of sample
appraisals, to assure that standards would be maintained.



20 -
Refinance Unit would monitor SCI lending activities of the participating
credit institutions; quarterly reports from these institutions would be
received, reviewed and aggregated for submission to IDA and for discussion
in the meetings of the SCI Credit Coordinating Committee. Supervision
standards would be monitored through reports and visits to a sample of
subprojects.
2.   Eligibility, Terms and Conditions
4.13      Eligibility for Refinance.  Credit institutions eligible for re-
finance would be those which have signed a participation agreement with the
Bangladesh Bank acceptable to IDA (para 4.22). Sonali, Janata, Agrani and
Bangladesh Shilpa Banks would be eligible for initial participation under
SSI III, since these institutions have relatively sound overall operations
and would have taken the necessary steps to provide adequate staff for SCI
lending operations. While inclusion of these four credit institutions would
provide an adequate nationwide SCI lending network 1/, GOB is interested in
making Rupali Bank, the fourth largest commercial bank, eligible for refinance
under SSI III. Participation by Rupali or other banks would be possible if
Bangladesh Bank and IDA agree that the concerned bank has established an
adequate number of qualified staff for its SID at headquarters, launched
a substantial program for training staff of key branches and signed a parti-
cipation agreement with Bangladesh Bank, satisfactory to IDA.
4.14      Subprojects eligible for refinance would involve the establishment,
balancing or expansion of private or cooperative enterprises 2/ involved
in manufacturing, processing, repair, handicraft production, cargo transport,
or agro-related activities such as fish ponds, beekeeping, and small livestock.
Enterprises not eligible would include: hotels, restaurants, cinemas, whole-
sale and retail operations, storage, construction contractors, 3/ and clinics.
4.15      Economic eligibility criteria employed under Credit 825-BD would be
maintained under SSI III. Eligible firms would be those which, in addition
to being financially viable, meet the following criteria: (a) fixed costs
per job not exceeding Tk 50,000 equivalent; and (b) raw materials or inputs
of local origin or involving prior local processing constituting not less
than 60% of the total value of raw materials in the case of industries serv-
ing local markets. Firms catering to export demand would need only to provide
evidence that they would be net foreign exchange earners. These eligibility
1/   Sonali, Janata and Agrani Banks account for over 70% of the branches and
total lending operations by the commercial banks.
2/   Cooperative and private enterprises promoted by such organizations as the
Ministry of Women's Affairs, Ministry of Youth Development, local govern-
ments and private voluntary organizations would be eligible for credit on
the same terms and conditions as other individual SCI subprojects.
3/   Construction contractors would not be eligible for credit under SSI III
since financing needs and appropriate appraisal techniques differ sig-
nificantly from those of manufacturing and industrial service enterprises.



- 21 -
criteria, i,hile rough, have proven useful in inducing the banks to select
projects of higher economic merit. However, specific exceptions would be
made. Cargo transport enterprises, which have considerable economic impact,
would not be expected to meet either raw material or labor intensity criteria.
Engineering firms which require metal not processed locally would be eligible
enterprises, since these firms tend to be key industries with strong linkages
to other economic development. In the case of other subprojects which the
banks and Bangladesh Bank judge to have high economic merit but which do not
meet the economic eligibility criteria, the banks would need to provide
economic as well as financial justification and submit the subprojects for
prior authorization by IDA.
4.16      Size and Allocations - Subloan Component.  The subloan component
would be US$30 million equivalent, with total subproject costs of about
US$43 million equivalent including the 30% equity contributions by private
sponsors. 1/ The expected commitment period would be about 24 months. 2/
To assure access to credit by smaller, export-oriented, and rural enterprises,
the following allocations of the subloan component would be made:
(a) A maximum of 60% (about US$18 million equivalent) of the
sub-loan component would be available for financing sub-
projects with fixed costs of above Tk 1 million each 3/;
(b) Up to 15% (about US$4.5 million equivalent) would be
available for cargo transport without prior IDA review;
additional amounts would be available, subject to prior
review by IDA 4/;
(c) A minimum of US$1 million equivalent would be provided
for term credit to exporters of handicraft and light
industrial products and related SCIs (para 4.44); and
(d) A minimum of US$1 million equivalent would be provided for
rural enterprise loans through eligible TCCA (para 4.49).
1/   In case of subloans of up to Tk 500,000 the equity contributions could
be reduced to minimum 20% of the subproject cost.
2/   Monthly commitments are expected to average US$1.25 million, which is
reasonable in view of SCI demand for credit and the present monthly
commitment rate of about US$800,000 by Janata and Sonali, under Credit
825-BD.
3/   Agreements between Bangladesh Bank and the participating credit insti-
tutions would provide that each bank maintains these ratios. Compliance
would be reviewed periodically.
4/   Priority would be given to transport requirements of the fertilizer
sector.



- 22 -
4.17      Refinance Arrangements.  Bangladesh Bank would refinance 100% of
eligible disbursements on approved subloans made by the participating banks
under the proposed IDA Credit. IDA would reimburse Bangladesh Bank for 100%
of these eligible disbursements. 1/ The maximum size of a subloan would
be Tk 3.0 million or 70% of subproject costs whichever is lower. Subloans of
up to Tk 500,000 could, however, constitute up to 80% of total subproject
costs. The credit institutions would assume full repayment risks on refinance,
repayable to Bangladesh Bank with maturities matching those of subloans
financed.
4.18      GOB, which would bear foreign exchange risks, would onlend funds
to Bangladesh Bank at a minimum of 2.0-5.0%. Bangladesh Bank would receive a
2% spread, 2/ which has been calculated to be adequate to cover administrative
and financial costs of this SCI refinance facility and the related revolving
fund. To help assure that a significant portion of the project's resources
are made available to smaller SCIs, the credit institutions would receive
differential. spreads, designed to cover larger administrative costs incurred
as a proportion of smaller subloans. The refinance rate would be adjusted to
provide the following minimum spreads to the participating banks: (a) 8% p.a.
on subloans of up to Tk 500,000; (b) 7% on subloans of Tk 500,001 to Tk 1.5
million; and (c) 6% of subloans of Tk 1.5 million to Tk 3 million. These
spreads have been designed to cover the banks' appraisal, loan processing and
supervision costs for SCI lending operations, provide coverage of risks and
induce the banks to give increased attention to SCI project-based lending.
In cases in which the credit institutions choose to participate in the credit
guarantee scheme of Bangladesh Bank (para 4.20), the 1% premium on the guaran-
teed portion would be taken out of the spread of the responsible credit
institution. The table below summarizes interest rates and tiering of spreads,
assuming a minimum onlending rate to SCIs of 13%:
Subloans of up  Tk 500,001 to  Tk 1,506,001 to
to Tk 500,000    Tk 1,500,000   Tk 3,000,000
(a)  IDA Charge 3/               0.75%           0.75%           0.75%
(b)  GOB Charge                  3%              4%              5%
(c)  Bangladesh Bank Spread    2%                2%              2%
(d)  Commercial Banks
and BSB Spread
(without guarantee)      8%              7%               6%
(e)  Minimum Rates to SCIs    13%               13%             13%
In the case of subloans made by the participating credit institutions through
TCCA and village-level cooperatives, the minimum 13% final onlending rate
1/   Under Credits 353-BD and 825-BD, IDA disbursed against 100% of the bank's
subloans, which is still justified in view of the liquidity position of
the banking system.
2/   Except for subloans through TCCA, where the spread would be 1% (para
4.18).
3/   IDA charge is included in GOB's charge to Bangladesh Bank.



- 23 -
would be maintained. The spread arrangements would be adjusted to cover costs
by the TCCA and village-level cooperatives, which would have major responsibil-
ities in: preparing and aggregating subloan applications for several coopera-
tives in the TCCA; supervising; collecting; and providing technical services.
The interest rates and spreads would be:
(a)  Charge by GOB                           2%
(b)  Spread to Bangladesh Bank               1%
(c)  Spread to Credit Institutions           4%
(d)  Spread to TCCA                          3%
(e)  Spread to Village Cooperative           3%
(f)  Minimum rate to SCIs                   13%
4.19      Terms and Conditions.  The present 11.5% interest rate for SCIs,
represents a negative real rate of interest. GOB has indicated that general
interest rate levels were under active review, with the intention of increas-
ing rates to reflect inflation projections. The final on-lending rate for
SSI III would be not less than 13%. In view of the inflation projections for
1980/81 (para 2.17) this rate would be positive in real terms. Consultations
on the interest rate would be undertaken between GOB and IDA at least once
a year. Maturities on subloans for fixed assets would be 2 to 12 years,
including grace periods of up to 3 years. Subloans for working capital and
transport equipment would have 2 to 5 year maturities, including grace periods
of up to 3 years; cargo transport operations are sufficiently profitable for
a 5 year repayment period, and SCIs should be in a position to locate normal
commercial loans for working capital requirements after an initial 5 years of
operations. 1/
4.20      Credit Guarantee Scheme.  Under SSI III, Bangladesh Bank would con-
tinue to operate its SCI credit guarantee scheme with certain modifications
made. The scheme would be voluntary; in cases in which the banks choose to
have subloans covered, 1% on the amount guaranteed would be paid to Bangladesh
Bank. Guarantee coverage would be 75% on subloans of up to Tk 500,000 and 50%
on subloans of above Tk 500,000. Subloans approved for refinance by Bangladesh
Bank would be automatically eligible for coverage under the credit guarantee
scheme. Amendments in Bangladesh Bank's existing credit guarantee scheme would
be needed prior to effectiveness of SSI III; the changes, outlined in the
project file, would need to reflect the banks' autonomous appraisal responsi-
bilities, the tiering of guarantee coverage according to subloan size, the
voluntary nature of the scheme, and the automatic eligibility for guarantee
coverage of subloans approved for refinance by Bangladesh Bank. 2/
4.21      Institutional and Training Needs.  Prior to credit effectiveness,
Bangladesh Bank would need to:
1/   As agreed under SSI II, working capital loans would be to finance initial
raw materials and/or spares in connection with a proposed subloan for
acquisition of fixed assets by an SCI enterprise; incremental working
capital for expansion projects would be eligible.
2/   Except for the differential coverage of 75% for smaller loans which
could take more time since the approval of Parliament would be required.



- 24 -
(a)  establish an SCI Refinance Unit with accounting practices,
a statement of policies and operating procedures and manage-
ment and staff satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.08-4.12);
(b)  establish participation agreements with at least two par-
tipating credit institutions, satisfactory to the involved
parties and to IDA (paras 4.12, 4.13 and 4.22); and
(c)  make necessary changes in the credit guarantee scheme
(para 4.20).
3.   Participating Credit Institutions
4.22      The participation of the commercial banks and BSB would be governed
by individual agreements with Bangladesh Bank. These agreements would out-
line terms and conditions of the SSI III including: eligibility criteria; 1/
refinance procedures; approval authority; appraisal standards; supervision,
procurement, disbursement and reporting responsibilities; staffing and train-
ing requirements (para 4.13). Agreement has been reached between GOB and
IDA on the substance of a draft Participation Agreement between Bangladesh
Bank and Participating Credit Institutions.
4.23      The Commercial Banks.  Sonali, Janata, and Agrani Banks are the
three largest commercial banks in Bangladesh with combined total assets of
Tk 28.6 billion as of December 31, 1978. These banks account for over 70%
of total commercial bank deposits, advances, and branches. Most of the banks'
outstanding advances are short.term; lending decisions are still based largely
on clients' collateral, although-security requirements have been relaxed in
cases of project-based lending to SCIs. Under Credit 825-BD, Sonali and
Janata have established Small Industry Departments (SIDs) to handle their term
lending operations to SCIs; these SIDs have attained satisfactory appraisal
capabilities, and have adopted adequate follow-up and reporting procedures.
Agrani would strengthen its SID prior to its participation in SSI III.
4.24      Sonali Bank.  Sonali is the largest commercial bank in the country
with total assets of Tk 11.8 billion and 709 branch offices as of December 31,
1978.  Sonali's total income was Tk 463.2 million and net profit was Tk 34.9
million; with a net worth of Tk 80.0 million, return on equity was 44%.  Of
its total advances of Tk 4.8 billion outstanding, industrial lending accounted
for 37%; only Tk 2.6 million or 0.5% were in term loans to small industries.
Sonali's SID has 24 officers 2/ trained in SSI operations and industrial
appraisal methods; 35 small industry specialists, assigned to district branches,
have attended SCI lending courses sponsored by the Bangladesh Institute of
Banking Management (BIBM).  Sonali plans to accelerate training of branch
officers to facilitate processing of small loans. Under SSI III, subloans of
1/   The Statement of policies and procedures of the SCI Unit and strategy
statements of participating institutions would spell out priority finan-
cing of fertilizer cargo transport.
2/   3 engineers, 4 MBAs, 2 economists, 15 accountants.



- 25 -
up to Tk 500,000 would be refinanced automatically if financial viability and
other economic criteria are met; this limit is within the approval authority
of branch managers. Sonali is the bank most active with agricultural, commer-
cial and industrial loans channelled through TCCA. Sonali is expected to
handle most of the loans to the TCCA under the proposed Credit (para 4.16).
4.25      Janata Bank.  Janata is the second largest commercial bank, with
total assets of Tk 11.2 billion and 629 branches at the end of 1978. Total
advances were Tk 5.4 billion; industrial advances accounted for about 26%.
Total income reached Tk 859.4 million resulting in a net profit of Tk 29.7
million or 33% of net worth. Under Credit 825-BD, Janata has established an
SID at headquarters with 25 officers 1/ who have received training in SCI
lending operations or industrial appraisal methods; 28 district branch officers
have attended SCI courses at BIBM. Janata would accelerate training of branch
SCI officers under SSI III. A consultant would be assigned to Sonali and
Janata for three months each to assist in the improvement of the banks'
institutional capabilities in development financing of SCI enterprises. The
consultant's qualifications and terms of reference would be satisfactory to
IDA. Sonali and Janata are expected to process about 300 subprojects each;
about 200 subprojects or about 60% of these would have loans below Tk 500,000.
4.26      Agrani Bank.  Agrani is the third largest commercial bank in
Bangladesh with total assets of Tk 5.6 billion at the end of 1978, about half
those of Sonali or Janata Banks. However, Agrani has 602 branches which is
extensive for its asset size. Industrial advances were about one-third of
total advances; its total income was Tk 273.5 million; net profit was Tk 17.3
million or 27% of net worth. To date, Agrani's long term lending to SCIs has
been limited to projects under IDA Credit 353-BD and other GOB foreign exchange
credits; under these, Agrani depended on appraisals by BSCIC. Agrani has set
up a small enterprise unit headed by an assistant general manager with training
in industrial credit. As a condition of participation under SSI III, Agrani
would strengthen its SID with an initial full time staff of eleven officers:
one manager, two engineers, six analysts, and two administrative officers.
These officers would undergo appropriate training in SCI appraisal methods and
lending operations. In addition, a consultant would be assigned to the SID
for 6 months to help Agrani establish strong appraisal and supervision capa-
bilities. The consultant's qualifications and terms of reference would be
satisfactory to IDA.
4.27      Bangladesh Shilpa Bank.  BSB is an institution specializing in term
loans to industry. As of June 30, 1979 is total assets were Tk 2.5 billion.
Its net profit of Tk 22.2 million represented 7% of its net worth. BSB has
fully utilized its first IDA Credit of US$25 million for financing medium and
small enterprises and it is envisaged that a second IDA Credit of about $50.0
million would be considered in 1980/81. Although BSB has no floor on the
size of its industrial loans, its financing of small industries has been
mainly in the upper range with loans of Tk 1.0 million to Tk 2.5 million.
Under its ADB loan approved in June 1979, US$4.0 million is earmarked for
1/   6 engineers, 7 MBAs, 3 economists, 9 accountants.



- 26 -
small industry. BSB can benefit from the spread arrangements, GOB coverage
of the foreign exchange risks, and the SCI Credit Guarantee under SSI III.
With its participation under SSI III, BSB intends to expand its SSI operations
by training its branch staff to undertake appraisal of SSI projects. BSB has
satisfactory appraisal capabilities, but would need to provide its SSI lending
strategy and staffing as part of its participation agreement with Bangladesh
Bank; this would be contained in BSB's revised strategy statement.
4.28      Institutional and Training Needs.  To ensure satisfactory subproject
review and refinance capabilities by Bangladesh Bank and strong appraisal and
supervision standards by the participating credit institutions, SSI III would
finance:
(a) an advisor to the SCI Refinance Unit of Bangladesh Bank for
12 months (para 4.09); 1/
(b) six manmonths of consultancy to help Agrani establish its
SCI operations and 3 manmonths each for Janata and Sonali
Banks, to assist the SIDs in strengthening technical
appraisal knowhow (paras 4.24-4.26); and
(c) outside training for about 6 officers of the SCI unit of
Bangladesh Bank and about 16 SID officers from the par-
ticipating credit institutions.
C. Technical and Marketing Component
4.29      Elements of the technical service component, outlined in para 4.04,
are structured to address problems blocking rapid growth in four major SCI
segments: organized small industries catering to local markets; export-oriented
light industrial and handicraft manufacturers and exporters; agro-related
rural enterprises; and cargo transport. As outlined in Chapter III, assistance
needs and the appropriate service institutions differ for these three major
groups.
1.   Services for Organized SSIs - BSCIC
4.30      Experience under Credit 825-BD.  BSCIC has taken some steps to
improve promotion and extension services. Under Credit 825-BD, BSCIC estab-
lished a Promotion and Extension Division with a Director overseeing the
work of the Counselling and Industrial Services Department and the Industrial
Extension Services Department (IESD). The necessary methods and materials for
successful promotion and extension progress have been developed (para 1.05).
However, progress has been slow in using these tools for active and systematic
promotion and extension work. At the district level, Industrial Estate
1/   This advisor would also study and make recommendations on the opera-
tions of the Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management (BIBM) in terms
of organization, staffing and course programs for SCIs.



- 27 -
Managers have been renamed District Managers but no full time extension
officers have been posted to district offices. Moreover, District Managers
still report to the office at headquarters responsible for industrial estate
operations; training of extension officers has been insufficient to enable
them to do effective extension work; and district-level activities have
remained concentrated on the industrial estates, which contain a small
fraction of organized SSIs.
4.31      Basic problems hindering BSCIC's effectiveness include:  (a) man-
agement with insufficient motivation, industrial experience, and tenure with
BSCIC; (b) an unclear mandate from GOB; (c) diffusion of activities; and (d)
insufficient numbers of trained and motivated promotion and extension officers
at the district level or subsector specialists to provide back-up services.
Key GOB officials are concerned with the weaknesses in BSCIC's performance;
the Second Five Year Plan indicates commitment by GOB to institute substantial
changes in programs, organization and staffing to enable BSCIC to be more
effective in its primary tasks.of promotion and extension services for
organized small industries.
4.32      Strategy.  Elements of SSI III to be implemented by BSCIC deal with
the major organized SSI product groups, utilizing subsector analysis performed
under Credit 825-BD. These elements attempt to accelerate growth in light
engineering, woodworking, selected agro-industries and garments; promote links
between SSIs and public corporations, through the establishment of a subcon-
tracting exchange; finance pilot projects involving BSCIC and private sponsors
in setting up new types of enterprises; and strengthen decentralized promotion
and extension services. While the success of other project elements would not
be impaired if BSCIC's performance does not improve 1/, the project elements
to be performed by BSCIC would need to be accompanied by substantial improve-
ments in strategy, organization and staffing to help ensure successful imple-
mentation. The following steps would need to be taken by January 31, 1981:
(a)  allocation by GOB of finance for addition of 80 promotion
and extension officers in the district offices over a three
year period. At least 50% of these officers would be
assigned during 1980/81; 2/
(b)  launching by BSCIC of a three year program of intensive
ongoing formal and field-level training for these promotion
and extension officers, with outside technical assistance.
Twenty-four man-months of consultancy funds for BSCIC were
provided under SSI II for promotion and extension work; this
1/   While promotional services for SCIs would enhance credit demand, the
US$30 million provided under the project would fall well below potential
demand for credit by SCI (paras 2.13-2.16); utilization would not be
dependent upon the success of BSCIC's promotional or extension progress.
Also, the export promotion, rural enterprise and leather development
programs would be operated independently of BSCIC's services.
2/   Outlines of the decentralization plan and the training program are
available in the Project File.



- 28 -
and additional consultancy to carry out training work 11
would form the basis for the training program agreed in
substance during negotiations;
(c) installation of a system which provides inducements for
qualified and motivated staff to work in the districts,
while replacing less efficient staff through attrition and
increasing the ratio of technical to non-technical staff;
(d) organization of subsector cells at headquarters with
adequate staffing to provide the necessary backup for
district extension officers and to develop and implement
subsector schemes; and
(e) formal commitment by BSCIC to substantial private sector
involvement in ownership and management of pilot projects.
Other major steps recommended to increase BSCIC's effectiveness include:
(a) reducing the focus on physical investments by BSCIC, having
BSCIC utilize existing prototype development facilities and
avoid additional investments in industrial estates and cen-
tralized training facilities which are costly, have limited
demand outside major industrial areas, and cause BSCIC to
limit its target group of clients; and
(b) getting BSCIC to focus on fewer activities, giving priority
to those with high impact on organized SSIs; in cottage indus-
tries, get BSCIC to focus on training the trainers from
organizations with established rural networks-rather than
developing BSCIC's own direct support capabilities.
These recommendations were discussed with BSCIC and concerned ministries
during appraisal. Top ministry officials agreed in principle; BSCIC manage-
ment demonstrated reluctance to make these fundamental changes, but a new
chairman is being selected. GOB submitted during negotiations the revised
draft administrative scheme of BSCIC for the Second Five Year Plan Period.
With the introduction of the above modifications, the administrative scheme,
would provide the basis for significant improvements in BSCIC's organization,
staffing and training.
4.33      Decentralization.  Under SSI III, BSCIC would expand its extension
staff in district offices. District level extension staff would: identify
clients requiring technical or managerial advice; diagnose their problems;
recommend solutions to more common difficulties; refer special cases to
headquarters; and monitor clients' progress. During negotiations, a draft
action plan for this expansion and related staff training was developed with
BSCIC. The draft plan encompasses the addition or redeployment of about 40
technical staff in 14 district offices in year 1 and another 40 technical
staff for six offices in Years 2 and 3. Staffing of these district offices
1/   It is envisaged that, upon request from GOB, additional funds would be
provided for this purpose under an IDA Technical Assistance Credit.



- 29 -
would vary according to existing and potential industrial concentrations:
two offices with seven professionals each, nine offices with five profes-
sionals each, and twelve offices with three professionals each are envisioned.
The recruitment and redeployment of staff would need to be accompanied by: (a)
an intensive and continuous training program; (b) changes in reporting rela-
tionships, with district managers reporting to the Director of the Promotion
and Extension Division; and (c) a system of rewards to encourage qualified
staff to assume positions outside Dacca and to reward strong performance (para
4.32). Staffing and training commitments and organizational changes would
need to be made by January 31, 1981.
4.34      Subsector Organization at Headquarters.  The Industrial Extension
Services Department (IESD) of the Promotion and Extension Division would be
reorganized along subsector lines to provide technical backup services for
extension workers in the districts and to develop subsector schemes. Ini-
tially, cells would be established in the following four subsectors: light
engineering with emphasis on manufacture and repair of agricultural imple-
ments; agro-processing with a focus on fruits and vegetables; woodworking;
and garments. A minimum of two engineers or technologists would be needed
in each subsector.
4.35      SSI III would finance outside specialists, assigned to each sub-
sector cell for 24 manmonths each to assist in establishing backup technical
service capabilities and subsector specific schemes, involving the head-
quarters cells and the network of field extension officers. Each consultant
would assist in developing the BSCIC engineers or technologists as subsector
specialists at headquarters. Each subsector team would make a quick sample
survey and develop a practical program for promoting and assisting firms in
the subsector. In addition to providing direct technical assistance and
training, the consultant would prepare a medium and long term assistance
scheme to be carried out by BSCIC. Also, the consultant would help develop
coordination and referral mechanisms between BSCIC and other agencies which
can assist the subsector. The outside subsector specialists would start
only once BSCIC has reorganized headquarters into subsector cells and finished
recruitment, training and fielding of the first batch of district extension
officers. These steps are expected to be completed by January 31, 1981.
Costs for these subsector specialists would be about US$670,000. Selection of
consultants would be satisfactory to IDA based on qualifications and draft
terms of reference which were discussed with BSCIC at appraisal and were
agreed in substance at negotiations.
4.36      Subcontracting Exchange.  Under SSI III, BSCIC would establish a
subcontracting exchange within the IESD, to facilitate manufacture of spares
and components by SSIs for sale to public sector corporations. Major func-
tions of the subcontracting exchange would be to: organize data banks on
the corporations' requirements and SSI capabilities; help small industries
get orders; and assist the SSI subcontractors in making improvements in
methods to assure quality and timely deliveries. In some cases, the exchange
would need to supply blueprints and help SSIs locate proper jigs and testing
equipment. Initially, the exchange would focus on the metal products subsec-
tor. A recent survey sponsored by BSCIC provides a strong data base on
specific capabilities of most organized engineering SSIs for use in operating
the subcontracting exchange.



- 30 -
4.37      BSCIC's subcontracting exchange would focus on the needs of four
major public sector corporations: BJMC, BTMC, BSFC and BCIC. Management
of each of these corporations has agreed to assign at least one full time
engineer to work with BSCIC on: developing information on product groups for
manufacture by local SSIs, and providing backup services from the corporations
in supplying specifications, quantity and delivery requirements, and quality
testing facilities. BSCIC's subcontracting exchange would be staffed by one
senior development officer, two deputy chief engineers, four engineers and
eight support staff. At GOB's request, funds from the IDA Technical Assistance
Credit could be utilized for two to three months of training and exposure in
India for 2 to 3 IESD staff members assigned to the subcontracting exchange.
Three months of consultancy funds allocated for BSCIC under SSI II would be
utilized for a subcontracting specialist whose work would complement that of
IESD staff helping to establish the subcontracting exchange. GOB would cover
staffing costs; the IDA portion of SSI III would total about US$200,000
covering establishment costs for the exchange (US$35,000), nine months of the
advisor (US$54,000), studies by local engineering consultants on those public
corporation requirements which can best be met by engineering SSIs (US$36,000),
and hiring of engineers on a fixed contract basis to assist specific SSIs in
establishing stable subcontracting (US$75,000).
4.38      Pilot Projects.  BSCIC plans to sponsor a series of pilot projects
during the Second Five Year Plan period; these are intended to be productive
enterprises in new product lines to test and demonstrate project viability
and promote replication by private enterpreneurs. Pilot projects can be power-
ful tools in introducing new types of enterprises, since many entrepreneurs
prefer to copy successful activities rather than experiment with new ones.
However, BSCIC has sponsored a number of unsuccessful pilot projects, due to
lack of technical knowhow, commercial incentives and management capabilities.
The appraisal mission strongly recommended that major expenditures on pilot
projects be made only when: (a) a private partner, with relevant managerial
or technical experience, is willing to take a share in management and invest-
ment from the outset 1/; (b) the project, while potentially profitable,
requires testing prior to normal private sector investment; and (c) the pilot
project has good prospects for replication (para 4.32).
4.39      BSCIC plans to promote some small-scale projects which have been
pioneered and found commercially viable by the National Small Industries
Corporation Ltd. (NSIC) of India. Proposals have been provided for technical
collaboration by NSIC in pilot plants in rice husk, ash cement, handmade paper,
and rubber erasers. Feasibility studies on the first two indicate that the
projects are feasible and sound within the Bangladesh context. IDA funds have
been allocated for about ten pilot projects with equipment costs averaging
1/   BSCIC's participation in these pilots could help assure that the projects
serve their broader demonstration purpose, while the private entrepreneurs'
role would be to provide management and a means for evolution into a fully
private enterprise.



- 31 -
US$30,000 and 6 months or roughly US$24,000 of technical assistance 1/ per
project. Prior to IDA authorization of expenditures for these projects,
BSCIC would submit: the technical and economic feasibility study; a descrip-
tion of how the proposed project meets eligibility criteria outlined in para
4,38; composition of managerial and technical staff; ownership structure; 2/
action program for implementation of the pilot; and the plan tor phasing
out BSCIC's involvement, with the project if successful becoming completely
private after serving its demonstration purpose.
2.   Services for Private Sector Tanneries
4.40      SSI III would help establish a program to provide common finishing
facility and technical services for small- and medium-scale tanneries under
the Institute of Leather Technology (ILT). The facilities and services would
be owned and operated by ILT, under a management committee which would include
representatives of small private tanneries. Active private participation in
management would help ensure proper selection and use of the necessary equip-
ment. The management committee would have about six members with at least two
from the private sector; the principal of the Institute would serve as the
chairman. The ILT is in Hazaribagh in the heart of Dacca's tannery concen-
tration; the Institute has strong contacts with private tanneries and technical
knowhow useful in developing the industry. The finishing facilities could be
established on the premises of the Institute. The finishing facility, which
would be used exclusively for private tanners, would have a full-time plant
manager and skilled operators. The finishing facility would not be used for
training purposes; graduates of ILT's training programs would use the equipment
only when the principal has determined that they are skilled operators.
4.41      Main functions of the common facilities center would be to provide
at commercial rates: (a) common hide finishing facility services to private
tanneries of Hazaribagh, in the area surrounding the ILT; (b) technical serv-
ices for private sector tanneries including laboratory testing and quality
control and (c) effective in-plant consultancy services with the assistance
of consultants. A two phase system would be adopted. Consultancy for tech-
nical services would be made available immediately. Half of the total equip-
ment costs would be made available during year 1 of operations; this would be
sufficient to finish about 500 hides daily. After 18 months, there would be
a joint review by the Ministry of Education, ILT and IDA to determine the
extent to which smaller tanneries have been helped and the optimum investment
of remaining funds. Estimated costs would include: common facilities with
capacity of 500 hides per day (US$1.3 million); 48 man-months in advisors
for training in tanning and for assistance in managing the common facilites;
and improvement and expansion in the existing building, and permanent working
capital.
1/   From NSIC or other sources.
2/   In the year 1 action plan for BSCIC, a formal statement would be included
specifying that all pilot projects would have at least 10% private invest-
ment with a major share in mangement by the private partners.



- 32 -
4.42      Prior to disbursements for this component (a) the local manager
and consultant for the common facility would need to be appointed and (b) the
action plan for year 1 would need to be adopted in a manner, satisfactory to
IDA. Each January 1, ILT would furnish to IDA and thereafter carry out an
annual action plan taking into account IDA's comments thereon.
3.   Export Promotion Bureau Program
4.43      As noted in para 3.08, major promising product lines for export
expansion 1/ include: leather and leather products; specialized textiles
and garments; cane and wood furniture; ceramics; bamboo, jute and other handi-
crafts. Exporters already play an important role in organizing production
from household and other small enterprises. SSI III would provide funds to
assist exporters in improving the quality, and value added of these products.
Banglacraft and other exporters associations are being established to help
channel assistance to exporters of handicraft and light industrial products.
Under SSI III a Handicraft and Light Industrial Export and Product Develop-
ment Program would be established within the Export Promotion Bureau to:
(a) fund practical consultancy services to assist exporters
in: developing and adapting products; improving quality,
productivity and organization of the decentralized pro-
duction base; and contacting potential buyers (about
US$400,000 equivalent); and
(b) finance exporters' and manufacturers' participation in
sales trips, fairs and visits to exporters and producers
in neighbouring countries which are successful exporters
of similar items (about US$400,000 equivalent).
4.44      These technical and marketing services, 2/ organized by EPB, would
constitute an important complement to the proposed allocation of US$1.0 mil-
lion of the subloan component to handicraft exporters and related manufac-
turers (para 4.16) 3/ under which they would be eligible for term credit
from participating banks to finance processing and packing facilities and
tools and inputs for artisans in the exporters' networks.
1/   With improvements in market contacts, product adaptation, and supplies,
EPB anticipates that annual export value of leather and leather goods
could increase by about 50% by 1984/85; minor industrial exports (mainly
light industrial and handicraft products) could increase by over 160%
from present annual exports of Tk 480 million during the same period.
2/   The Bangladesh Handicraft Marketing Corporation, a subsidiary of BSCIC,
would be eligible for this funding of consultancy and trips.
3/   This US$1.0 million would be a special allocation for exporters and
related manufacturers; once this allocation is fully utilized, exporters
would be eligible subborrowers under the general subloan component
of SSI III.



- 33 -
4.45      Organization.  The Export Promotion Bureau has strong experience
in hiring consultants to provide product adaptation advice to exporters, and
organizing exporters' participation in trade fairs. Recently the EPB used
a U.S. marketing consulting firm to organize a successful single country fair
between Bangladesh and the United States, with intensive product adaptation
and supply development work preceding the fair. EPB intends to utilize a
sizeable portion of the SSI III component to repeat this package in entering
other promising markets. Staff requirements for this activity would be small;
EPB intends to use existing and a few additional specialized local staff to
organize consultancy and exposure trips. Concentrated assistance would be
given in the product groups mentioned in para 4.43 although other handicraft
and light industrial product lines also would be eligible.
4.46      Simplified procedures.  Given the experience of the EPB and the
need to retain flexibility, IDA authorization and disbursement procedures
would be kept simple. By January 31, 1981, the Program would need to be
established with appropriate policies and procedures, a year 1 action plan
having been furnished to IDA for its concurrence, 1/ and adequate staff to
administer the Program.  Within these general guidelines and annual action
plans, EPB could operate flexibly, informing IDA when major changes in
the program were made. EPB in consultation with client export associations
would select consultants, with EPB establishing terms of reference and con-
tractual conditions. The EPB would approve qualifications and terms for
individual consultants. By January 1 of each year, EPB would furnish to
IDA and thereafter carry out an action plan taking into account IDA's. comments.
The EPB would submit quarterly reports to IDA on actual use of the Program
including a detailed description of participation in and costs of sales and
exposure trips and curriculum vitae, terms of reference and terms for con-
sultancy services. EPB would also maintain separate accounts for the Program.
IDA would disburse against regular statements of actual-expenditures for
incremental expenses under this program. GOB would allocate sufficient funds
to EPB to cover the lag between EPB's expenditures and withdrawals from IDA.
4.   Rural Enterprise Development - IRDP
4.47      Under SSI III, IRDP and selected, stronger TCCA would promote agro-
related rural enterprises, such as beekeeping, goat rearing, pond fisheries,
poultry and certain agro-processing activities. While most activities of IRDP
and the TCCA focus on agricultural development, IRDP has launched a program
promoting rural women's cooperatives; the most successful activities of these
cooperatives are agro-related, building on skills of IRDP and villagers. The
cooperative organization of TCCA and village level KSS 2/ represents virtually
1/   The statement of policies and procedures would include objectives and
uses of the program; priority product groups and target markets; ranges
in consultancy fees and trip payments; and disbursement and reporting
arrangements.
2/   Thana Central Cooperative Authority (TCCA) and village cooperatives
(KSS).



- 34 -
the only rural service infrastructure in Bangladesh. It is appropriate that
IRDP build its capabilities in agro-related rural enterprises, since its major
objectives are productivity and income improvements in rural areas, which are
needs that cannot be addressed fully through agriculture. While many TCCA
have difficulty managing their primary agricultural activities, IRDP has
graded TCCA into categories, the best of which could be encouraged to diversify
into promoting secondary rural enterprise activities. Under the proposed
rural enterprise component, 10 to 15 of the more successful TCCA would be
selected to channel credit and technical services for concentrated product and
area rural enterprise schemes involving landless and marginal farm families.
4.48      Organization and Staffing.  While IRDP is the best suited agency
in Bangladesh to implement this type of agro-related village enterprise
component, IRDP has had management difficulties and needs to continue in
its new drive to consolidate and strengthen its existing activities.  The
rural enterprise component is structured to have a sizeable impact on income
generation for the rural poor, while minimizing burdens on IRDP. IRDP would
supplement its rural enterprise department at headquarters with about 4
additional staff. IRDP's major tasks would be to organize training of about
35 TCCA rural enterprise supervisors over a three year period and monitor
progress of the program. An advisor would assist IRDP in: launching year
one of the program; making detailed plans for years 2 and 3; and installing
a simple monitoring and evaluation system. With a small number of the
strongest TCCA involved, most tasks could be decentralized.
4.49      Summary of Schemes.  Technical, financial and market feasibility
has been assessed for beekeeping, pond fisheries, goat rearing and poultry.
As indicated below, these activities can be profitable and need not be depen-
dent upon subsidies. Tentative selection of thanas has been made, based upon
field work and records of IRDP rural enterprise staff. Selection criteria for
the schemes vary according to infrastructure, resource and skill requirements
and concentrations of landless and marginal farm families; all thanas selected
would have strong performance records in agricultural programs and loan repay-
ments. To the extent that the location of successful TCCA and the needed
conditions permit, activities would be concentrated in a fairly compact area to
facilitate implementation and supervision. In each case IRDP would organize
selection and training of the TCCA supervisors, who would: promote establish-
ment of cooperatives of landless, marginal farmers, and women applying eligi-
bility criteria on maximum holding and incomes of beneficiaries; provide these
cooperatives with technical services; and help prepare loan applications. The
TCCA would group loan applications for a number of cooperative enterprises in
the TCCA, presenting the consolidated application to one of the participating
commercial banks. The TCCA would receive a spread of 3%; the KSS or special-
ized cooperative would receive 3%.  These spreads are adequate to cover costs
incurred by preparing loan applications, distributing the subloans to the
cooperatives, supervising utilization, collecting repayments, and providing
technical services. Major features of the four principle schemes are outlined
belbw. 1/
1/   More detailed descriptions and analyses are available in the project
file.



- 35 -
4.50      Beekeeping schemes would be implemented in four to five thanas over
the three year implementation period. Criteria for TCCA selection would be:
strong TCCA management and a good record in agricultural programs; appropriate
vegetation to support beekeeping; and some beekeeping tradition. The local
market for honey is strong; prevailing prices are high. Beekeeping requires
limited capital investment of about Tk 250 per modern hive, no working capital
and little work for farm families. In year 1, yields can be expected to be at
least Tk 350 per hive; in year 2 and after, annual yields are normally Tk 1,000
per hive. Honey could be sold locally, with extraction equipment costing about
Tk 500 shared by the village cooperative; when higher yields are achieved,
honey could be collected by a TCCA level cooperative for packaging and sales
in urban areas. With an estimated 180 cooperatives of about 20 members each
formed over a three year period, about 3,600 families would benefit. With an
average of two hives per participating family by year 3, annual incremental
earnings would be roughly Tk 2,000. With each TCCA supervisor providing
organizational and technical services to 10 beekeeping cooperatives for the
initial two years, it would be necessary to have about 15 TCCA supervisors by
year 3. Estimated credit requirements are Tk 12,000 per cooperative, or a
total of Tk 2.2 million.
4.51      Goat rearing is an established and profitable activity of rural
women in Bangladesh. Goats scavenge, requiring no purchased feed; risks of
loss due to disease are relatively low. A unit purchasing three goats for
about Tk 330 could earn roughly Tk 1,500 by the end of year 1 and up to
Tk 7,000 in year 2. About six thanas would participate in years 1 and 2
of this program. Three thanas from Jessore, one adjacent thana in Khulna,
and two in Dacca have been tentatively selected. Selection criteria include:
strong TCCA management and an operational women's cooperative program. An
estimated 20 cooperators could participate from each village at the outset.
By year 3, it should be possible to cover about 250 village cooperatives,
with investment requirements totalling roughly Tk 3.0 million and credit
requirements of Tk 2.1 million. One supervisor would be required per thana.
Major tasks of supervisors would include: assistance in purchasing of goats
as credit-in-kind, provision of basic veterinary services, and supervision
of end use and repayments. Supervisors should have knowledge of livestock;
short basic training would be provided by the District Livestock Officer.
4.52      Fish Ponds.  About four thanas would be selected for the development
of fish ponds. In year 1, about 40 villages in two TCCA would be covered with
roughly 15 ponds per village. Ponds selected would be small and without need
of excavation; most would be privately owned with a limited number of share-
holders. According to IRDP's initial survey, Comilla and Barisal both hold
sizeable concentrations of ponds which would meet the above criteria. These
districts are covered by the IDA Fisheries Project, providing the necessary
fish fry and backup technical services. An estimated Tk 2,000 would be
required per one acre pond to purchase fish fry and feed, construct bamboo
protection, and clear hyacinths. Sales would increase gradually to about
Tk 20,000 annually by year 3 for a one acre tank. With roughly 15 ponds
each in 40 villages, the project would yield about 15,000 fish per village
per year or about 50 per day, which could be absorbed by the local market.
Credit totalling roughly Tk 2.4 million would be required for 1,800 ponds
over three years; full repayments could be scheduled for three years. One



- 36 -
supervisor would be required per TCCA. Cooperation would be needed from
thana and district fisheries officers to train the supervisors and cooperators;
arrangements would need to be made with BADC to assure feed availability. Prior
to implementing this project element, IRDP Rural Industries staff needs to
select TCCA with strong management, concentration of fish ponds not requiring
excavation, and reasonable access to subdivisional headquarters.
4.53      Poultry.  About 10 TCCA would be selected for development of small
scale chicken raising. In each thana, 10 villages with reasonable access
to headquarters would be involved with about 20 members per cooperative. In
year 1, each member would borrow for about 10 traditional or improved scavenger
chickens, which is considered a reasonable number without requiring feed.
With 10 villages per TCCA, 100 villages and about 2,000 cooperators could be
involved in year 1. With average credit requirements of Tk 200 per cooperator,
at least Tk 1,000,000 would be required over a three year period. One year
maturities with monthly installments would be appropriate. Annual earnings
of Tk 550 for one layer can be expected with a 10% death rate. The most
critical input to successful poultry raising is the availability of vaccines,
which require refrigeration. Only those thanas with electricity and with a
relatively small loadshedding problem would be incorporated; special arrange-
ments would be made to assure availability of vaccines. One supervisor
working on both poultry and goats would be assigned to each thana; training
from the Livestock Directorate would be arranged.
4.54      Next Steps.  Prior to disbursements for this component, IRDP would
undertake the following actions: (a) establish an effective headquarters
organization for rural enterprise development, recruiting at least three rural
enterprise specialists and one staff member to design and install a monitoring
and evaluation system as well as a consultant to assist in implementation
and monitoring during year 1, in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (b) select
thanas, and eligible activities 1/ and (c) prepare an action plan for year 1
of the project, with immediate implementation of schemes in the women's areas
and organization, training and preparation of loan applications for landless
cooperatives in year 1. Each January 1, IRDP would begin implementation of
an annual action plan which had been furnished to IDA taking into account
IDA's comments. Under these guidelines, the credit and technical services
under the rural enterprise component are expected to benefit a target group
of up to about 10,000 rural families, the majority of which would be landless
or marginal farmers. It is anticipated that detailed institutional analysis
of IRDP would be done in preparation for the second rural development project.
Findings of this study combined with experience under SSI III should provide
a good base for further IDA assistance in rural enterprise development.
1/   A tentative list of 10-15 Thanas has been discussed between IDA and GOB/
IRDP. An agreed final list of thanas to be covered during the three
year implementation period would be included within IRDP's year 1 action
plan. Thanas would be selected according to (a) classification as
Category "A" TCCA; (b) existence of ecological conditions appropriate
for the agro-related activities selected; (c) considerable tradition
in the activities to be undertaken; and (d) a high concentration of
landless and marginal farmers.



- 37 -
5.   Study of Rural Enterprise Development
4.55      SSI III would help finance consultancy for a study by the Planning
Commission on potential in and needed institutional services for rural enter-
prise development. Emphasis would be given to identifying promising new and
existing rural enterprises which: process agricultural products; provide
manufactured goods and repair services for local markets; or make ancillary
parts for other industries. Industries selected for detailed project develop-
ment would be: agro-related, labor-intensive, have short gestation periods,
and lend themselves to widespread application.
4.56      The Planning Commission would conduct detailed studies in about 35
thanas, beginning with 10 in year 1. Since many thanas lend themselves to
similar industries, several project profiles and assistance models developed
for the first 10 thanas should have application in the other thanas. The
aims of the study will be to: formulate area development plans for promotion
of rural industries in each of the thanas under study; identify feasible rural
industries and recommend measures for development of these industries; deter-
mine relative economic benefits of alternative processing technologies; and
prepare project profiles, manufacturing guides and technical service packages
for identified subprojects. The study would make use of available research
on rural enterprises but would give greater attention than in past studies
to: (a) identifying enterprises which can provide goods and services at
competitive prices; (b) assessing local market potential for expanded produc-
tion in existing and new lines; (c) comparing economic benefits of alternative
production technologies, particularly in agro-processing lines; (d) moving
quickly to development of concrete project profiles and manufacturing guides
to serve as promotional tools; and (e) assessing existing and needed policy,
and private and public institutional support.
4.57      The study would be implemented over a three-year period.  However,
phasing would be such that some area schemes, profiles and guides will be
available after year 1. After 18 months the study team would prepare an
interim report with recommendations on public and private institutional
services needed to accelerate development of viable rural enterprises. The
study is expected to provide a basis for GOB's rural enterprise strategy.
Estimated costs of the study, which would be incorporated as a component of
SSI III, would be about US$0.8 million equivalent of which IDA would finance
about US$0.4 million in foreign exchange for consultants. GOB would need to
provide financing for local currency requirements. The Planning Commission
and IDA would agree on terms of reference and selection of the consultants for
the proposed study. The Planning Commission's draft proposal for the study
was discussed in substance during negotiations.
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.01      Lending Arrangements.  The proposed credit of SDR 26.7 million ($35
million equivalent), consisting of a $30 million subloan component and a $5 mil-
lion technical service component, would be made to the Government of Bangladesh.
The credit is expected to be committed in about three years and disbursed in
about 3.5 years from the date of credit effectiveness.   Annex 2, Table 7



- 38 -
shows the estimated schedule of disbursements. For the subloan component,
Bangladesh Bank would act on behalf of GOB, maintaining accounts to channel
IDA disbursements of Bangladesh Bank's refinancing of SCI subloans made by
participating banks, initially involving three commercial banks and BSB. GOB
would bear the foreign exchange risk on repayments to IDA. Repayment by
Bangladesh Bank to GOB would be on a fixed amortization schedule. The tech-
nical service component would cover specific items of training, advisory
services and equipment for the participating agencies. The SCI Unit of
Bangladesh Bank would be responsible for the portion of the technical service
component allocated for the participating credit institutions. The other
elements of the technical service component would be the responsibility
of the respective implementing agencies; each would have separate action
plans. Expenditures under the technical assistance component would not
be repayable to GOB.
5.02      Onlending Terms.  The participating credit institutions would charge
a standard interest rate of not less than 13% per annum to SCI subborrowers.
Interest rate and spread arrangements are summarized in the table of para
4.18. The participating credit institutions would maintain spreads of at
least 4%-8%. Bangladesh Bank would retain a minimum spread of 2% 1/ to cover
administrative and financial carrying costs. No commitment fee would be
charged on the subloan component as in Credit 353-BD (SSI I) and Credit 825-
BD (SSI II). The waiver is proposed again due to the multiple institutions
involved and the small scale nature of subborrowers.
5.03      SCI Fund.  Bangladesh Bank would make available funds out of its
Industrial Development Fund (Tk 75.0 million as of June 30, 1979) to cover
initial operating costs of the SCI Refinance Unit as well as the time lag
between Bangladesh Bank's refinance of SCI subloans and its withdrawals from
IDA. Annual appropriations would continue to be made as needed.
5.04      Subloan Sizes and IDA Review.  Based on the experience under Credit
825-BD and the expected increase in smaller subloans, about 1,200 sub-
projects 2/ are expected to receive financing under the proposed credit. In
view of the large number and relatively small sizes of subloans, simplified
review and approval procedures would be used to keep administrative costs and
processing times within reasonable bounds. On refinancing smaller subloans,
Bangladesh Bank's SCI Refinance Unit would do a rapid review to check the
eligibility of the subproject, its financial viability and the adequacy of
proposed subloan terms. Periodically, the SCI Unit would undertake sample
analyses of appraisal reports submitted for the smaller approved subloans to
check that appropriate appraisal standards are being maintained. For subloans
of Tk 500,001 to Tk 1,500,000, detailed review and approval by the SCI Unit
would be required prior to submitting withdrawal applications to IDA.
Bangladesh Bank would certify to IDA that subprojects meet eligibility cri-
teria, are financially viable and that subloan terms are appropriate. For
subloans above Tk 1,500,000, IDA's prior review and approval would be required.
It 'is expected that subloans of above Tk 500,000 will account for about 10%
1/   1% in case of subloans channelled through the participating TCCA.
2/   Including loans to cooperatives through the participating TCCA.



- 39 -
of total subprojects by number and 40% by amount. IDA would fully review and
approve only a small number of subprojects; however, samples of appraisal
reports and review memoranda of Bangladesh Bank would be sent to IDA for sub-
loans of up to Tk 1,500,000 to ensure that appraisal standards are maintained.
5.05      Disbursement.  All subloan disbursements for foreign or local expen-
ditures would be eligible for refinancing by Bangladesh Bank for up to 100%
of the total subloan amount. IDA would disburse 100% of the subloan amounts
refinanced by the SCI Unit. IDA financing would cover about 70% of total
subproject costs. The average foreign exchange content of subprojects is
estimated to be about 50%. Withdrawal applications would be submitted to
IDA by Bangladesh Bank. In view of the large number of subprojects involved
and the small subloan sizes, the normal DFC procedure of disbursing against
expenditures on individual subproject accounts would be inappropriate. Thus,
all disbursements for foreign or local expenditures made by the commerciai
banks will be financed equally up to 70% of subproject costs. 1/ Disburse-
ments for subloans above Tk 500,000, accounting for about 40% by amount of the
project's subloan component, would be fully documented, except for permanent
working capital. Disbursements for permanent working capital and for the
balance of subprojects would be reimbursed against statements of expenditure,
certified by the credit institutions, showing their own subloan disbursements
for the specific subprojects; IDA's reimbursements to Bangladesh Bank would
be limited to expenditures made by the sub-borrower not more than 120 days
prior to IDA's receipt of Bangladesh Bank's request for reimbursement; excep-
tion would be made to disbursements on expenditures qualified under the pro-
posed retroactive financing (para 5.09). Statements of expenditure, together
with supporting documentation, would be audited at least annually. In the
case of the technical service component, IDA would disburse (a) 100% of for-
eign expenditures for equipment imported directly and for locally manufactured
equipment purchased ex-factory; (b) 80% of expenditures for other equipment
procured locally; (c) 100% of total expenditures for consultant's services
and overseas training; and (d) up to 90% of expenditures for sales and exposure
trips for exporters. For the amounts allocated for preidentified items,
withdrawal applications would be submitted directly to IDA by the implementing
agency. Authorization by IDA for financing of goods and services under the
technical service component would be required; requests for disbursement by
IDA would be fully documented.
5.06      Procurement.  Contracts of goods and services procured outside of
Bangladesh costing US$6,000 equivalent or more per item or $30,000 per contract
shall be let through international shopping on the basis of at least three (3)
competitive quotations and shall be used exclusively for carrying out the
investment project; for contracts of goods and services costing less than
US$6,000 equivalent, the participating banks would ensure and certify that
these are reasonably priced and are suitable to the requirements of the invest-
ment project. This is in line with procurement procedures under Credit 825-BD
and is appropriate for SCI operations. Participating credit institutions
would be required to maintain records of the method of procurement. Staff of
1/   Up to 80% in case of subloans below Tk 500,000.



- 40 -
the SCI Unit and IDA's supervision mission would do periodic reviews of these
procedures.
5.07      Repayment Schedule to GOB.  The maximum maturity for subloans
refinanced by Bangladesh Bank would be 12 years including a grace period of
up to three years. Repayments to Bangladesh Bank would be on the basis of
a composite schedule composed of the sum of amortized schedules of individual
subloans. Repayments by Bangladesh Bank to GOB would be on a fixed amorti-
zation schedule payable up to 15 years including a grace period of five
years.
5.08      Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  The SCI Unit of Bangladesh Bank
would submit quarterly reports on its activities to IDA. The main report
would be an aggregation of the individual quarterly reports by participating
credit institutions covering activity, portfolio data, collection and arrears
performance and supervision results. In addition, the SCI Unit would submit
a quarterly statement of its own activity in refinance and details of disburse-
ments. Both sets of reports would have a content and format acceptable to
IDA. In addition, the SCI Unit would prepare annual reports on the performance
of the participating institutions under the proposed credit. These reports
would consolidate and present an analysis of the quarterly reports including
a projection of commitments, refinance, and withdrawals from IDA; the SCI Unit
also would present its assessment on the standards and procedures of the par-
ticipating institutions and propose actions for improvement including training
program; the report should include the audited annual reports of Bangladesh
Bank and the participating institutions and should be submitted within six
months after the end of the fiscal year of the commercial banks. Each credit
institution would maintain accounts for subloans and documentation on disburse-
ments and procurement procedures for all subloans; these accounts would be
audited annually. Each technical service agency would be expected to prepare
annual implementation programs and quarterly progress reports, which would
be submitted to the National Small Industry Council 1/ and to IDA. Separate
accounts, audited annually, would be maintained by the implementing agencies
for the technical service elements.
5.09      Bridge and Retroactive Financing.  Full commitment by the banks
of the subloan component of Credit 825-BD was achieved by June 30, 1980.
Janata and Sonali have about US$4.5 million in the pipeline; to enable Janata
and Sonali to continue sanctioning and disbursing against SCI subloans, GOB
would need to make bridge financing arrangements, allocating cash foreign
exchange as a temporary source of funds for Janata's and Sonali's SCI subloans.
To enable continued commitments until credit effectiveness of SSI III, GOB
has allocated cash foreign exchange. Disbursements for subprojects meeting
established criteria would be eligible for retroactive financing under SSI
III. The proposed SSI III Credit is likely to be signed in October 1980.
1/   GOB intends to establish a National Small Industry Council to review
and expedite project implementation and ensure that necessary Government
funds would be made available for the project. Key officials of the
implementing agencies, the involved ministries and the Planning Commis-
sion would be appointed to the SCI subcommittee of the Council.



- 41 -
The gap to be covered would be from about July to the date of credit signing.
As of February 29, 1980, subloans totalling US$450,000 equivalent have been
sanctioned by Janata and Sonali 1/; the banks estimate that about 60% of this
would be disbursed by September T980. With the actual monthly average approval
of US$600,000, Sonali and Janata would be expected to have additional commit-
ments of US$3.6 million to be financed out of SSI III by September 1980; dis-
bursements are expected to be US$900,000 during the same period. Accordingly,
US$1 million equivalent in retroactive financing would be appropriate. In
processing subprojects prior to credit effectiveness, Janata and Sonali would
appraise and approve subprojects submitting them to IDA through Bangladesh
Bank. Authorization procedures used under Credit 825-BD would be employed
for subprojects eligible for retroactive financing under SSI III. Screening
and approval by the review committee, however, would not be required. Once
GOB, Bangladesh Bank and IDA have agreed that the SCI Refinance Unit is duly
established within Bangladesh Bank, subproject review procedures would be
decentralized, as outlined in para 4.11. Subloans submitted to IDA prior
to effectiveness of SSI III should be on terms and conditions agreed under
SSI III; a detailed schedule of disbursements by the banks should be provided.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The proposed project would address major constraints hindering more
rapid growth and productivity improvement in SCIs. Access to term credit
would be increased for a wide range of manufacturing and industrial service
enterprises. The IDA Credit would fill a significant portion of the gap in
resources available for SCI lending. It is anticipated-that about 1,200 sub-
projects would be financed, with costs including sponsor's equity totalling
Tk 665 million (US$42.9 million). Differential spreads according to the size
of the subloan would be provided to the banks to induce them to give increased
attention to smaller customers. It is expected that about 60% of the amount
of the subloan component would be for loans below Tk 500,000. Direct employ-
ment generated is projected to be about 14,000 full time jobs for organized
SSI and transport subloans, with fixed costs per job averaging about US$2,000.
Credit and technical services under the rural enterprise component would be
provided according to agreed eligibility criteria which are designed to bene-
fit a target group of up to 10,000 rural families, the majority of which would
be landless or marginal farmers. Credit, marketing and consulting services
to exporters could result in increased sales and earnings for as many as
8,000 households engaged in handicrafts, which fall within participating
exporters' production networks.  In handicrafts and rural enterprises, fixed
costs per job normally would fall well below Tk 7,750 (US$500).
1/   These subloans are for subprojects with fixed costs over Tk 1 million
each for which allocations under Credit 825-BD already have been exhausted.
Full disbursements are projected to take place within 10 months of approval;
this is consistent with experience under Credit 825-BD. The rate of
disbursement should improve with the banks' growing experience in subloan
disbursement and project implementation.



- 42 -
6.02      The marketing and technical service components are expected to have
a significant impact on growth and productivity of SCIs in priority subsectors.
BSCIC's subcontracting exchange, subsector programs, pilot projects and general
promotion and extension services could cover roughly 2,000 firms over the three
year implementation period. The Export and Product Development Program prob-
ably would provide consultancy services and trips to over 100 exporters, who
in turn could organize production and sales from some 8,000 decentralized SCI
producers. The common facilities and technical services in leather would
cover about 200 tanneries and yield increased foreign exchange earnings.
Monitoring and reporting systems have been designed to measure coverage of
these technical and marketing programs and provide indicators of their impact
on employment, earnings, output and productivity in the targeted SCI segments.
6.03      The substantial size of the project and its components are geared
to build capabilities of credit and technical service institutions dealing
with SCIs. Arrangements for SCI lending operations would be clear, with the
participating banks fully responsible for appraisal, loan processing, super-
vision and collections. The network of credit institutions with capabilities
in SCI term lending would be expanded to include Agrani and BSB as well as
Janata and Sonali Banks. Training, differential spreads, and the credit gua-
rantee should help increase the banks' ability and willingness to make smaller
project-based loans, particularly from the branches. Through the SCI Refinance
Unit, Bangladesh Bank would build an organization with review capabilities to
serve as a uniform channel for GOB, IDA and other outside funding of SCI
lending requirements. Under the technical and marketing service component,
BSCIC's organization, staffing and programs for SSI promotion and technical
services would be strengthened, particularly in the districts. The EPB Pro-
gram would give this organization the means to take a more active role in
export promotion and supply development. The capabilities of IRDP and
selected TCCA to promote selected agro-related rural enterprises would be
strengthened, with a view to more sizeable involvement in the future.  The
EPB Program, the leather services, and the pilot projects are structured to
tap managerial and technical skills of private exporters and manufacturers
in helping meet SCI development objectives.
Risks
6.04      Several project elements represent new or significantly expanded
activities for the implementing agencies. While Bangladesh Bank has sizeable
refinancing operations, the SCI Refinance Unit would represent the first formal
SCI subproject review and refinance operations. However, Bangladesh Bank
staff have chaired the bi-monthly meetings of the review committee for SSI II
and subproject review capabilities would be bolstered through outside train-
ing and consultancy during the first year of operations (para 4.09). SSI III
involves a sizeable expansion of export promotion and supply development
activities by EPB, although this organization has established a successful
track record during the last three years (para 4.45), and is judged capable
of iiiplementing the proposed component. The rural enterprise component is
designed to minimize the burden on IRDP; however, risks exist that the critical
organization, training and monitoring functions would not be performed accord-
ing to the implementation plan and that the selected TCCA would not serve as
effective mechanisms for channelling technical and credit services to rural



- 43 -
enterprises composed mainly of landless. Consultancy services, clear eligi-
bility criteria and frequent supervision would be maintained to help ensure
successful implementation of this element (paras 4.47-4.54). Finally, there
are risks that BSCIC, still a weak institution, would not take the necessary
steps to improve its organization, staff and programs; however, this would
not impair the chances for successful implementation of the other project
components. Para 4.32 outlines what are considered necessary steps to ensure
effective implementation of the portion of the project to be implemented by
BSCIC; these steps would need to be taken by January 31, 1981. GOB has stated
commitment to making these changes in BSCIC.
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached between IDA and the
Government of Bangladesh on:
(a) GOB's budgetary allocations to cover incremental costs for
staff, overheads, land and buildings for the technical service
component over the three year commitment period (para 4.05);
(b) institutional responsibilities and mechanisms for coordination
and monitoring (paras 4.07);
(c) onlending terms, conditions, margins, eligibility criteria,
allocations, and refinance arrangements for subloan component
(paras 4.13-4.19);
(d) administrative arrangements, terms of reference and financing
of advisors and consultants (paras 4.28-4.57);
(e) implementation plan for the credit and annual action plans
for technical service component (paras 4.29-4.57);
(f) steps to be taken on staffing, training, and incentives for
extension staff of BSCIC at headquarters and in the district
offices by January 31, 1981 (para 4.32);
(g) establishment of an EPB Fund with policies, operating
procedures, and Year 1 action program by January 31, 1981
(para 4.46); and
(h) bridge and retroactive financing requirements (para 5.09).
7.02      It is recommended that the following conditions be met prior to
credit effectiveness:
(a) establishment of the SCI Refinance Unit in Bangladesh Bank,
including Bangladesh Bank approval of a statement of policies
and operating procedures satisfactory to IDA, recruitment
and training of agreed minimum staff (paras 4.08-4.12);



- 44 -
(b) incorporation by Bangladesh Bank of agreed modifications in
the SCI Credit Guarantee Scheme (para 4.20);
(c)  signing of participation agreements, satisfactory to IDA,
between Bangladesh Bank and at least two credit institutions
(para 4.22); and
(d)  signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
IDA, between GOB and Bangladesh Bank.
7.04      Conditions of disbursement from the IDA Credit would be made on
the following technical service components:
(a)  establishment under the Institute of Leather Technology of a
program to provide common facilities and services to private
tanneries with staffing and year 1 action plan satisfactory
to IDA (para 4.42); and
(b) adoption of year 1 action plan for IRDP and appointment of
consultant and staff required for project implementation,
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.54).



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
PROFILES OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER
CREDITS 353-BD AND 825-BD
1.        SSI I.  Under Credit 353-BD, thirty-eight subprojects were financed;
about 80% of these were textiles and grain milling; most were significantly
more capital and import intensive than other small industries; and nearly 90%
of the subloans were in the three major urban centers. Repayment performance
has been weak until recently, when the banks have increased attention to
follow-up and collections. As of February 28, 1980, arrears represented 35%
of amounts due vs. 61% as of June 30, 1978. Detailed descriptions of sub-
projects financed under Credit-353-BD are provided in the Project Completion
Report of May 1979.
2.        SSI II.  As of February 29, 1980, 129 subprojects had been approved
by the participating banks under Credit 825-BD. Forty of approved amounts
and 60% of subprojects are outside Dacca, Chittagong and Khulna. The average
subloan size has been Tk 600,000 (US$38,700) ranging from Tk 35,000 (US$2,300)
to Tk 3.2 million (US$206,500). While it is too early to judge actual per-
formance, in accordance with the eligibility criteria, appraisal reports for
these subprojects indicate that most are based upon a high utilization of
indigenous or locally fabricated inputs; an average of 87% of the value of
raw materials is estimated to be of local origin, which is significantly higher
than the minimum of 60% required under Credit 825-BD. Most subprojects involve
agro-processing (35%), light engineering (19%), or provide inputs into the
agriculture or fishing sectors. A wide diversity of product and industrial
service groups have been financed. Approved subprojects average about
US$2,000 1/ in incremental fixed costs per job generated, which is 33% lower
than the maximum ratio required under Credit 825-BD. The range has been
US$350 to US$3,000 in fixed costs per job. For subprojects with loans above
Tk 100,000, the financial rates of return (ex ante) are between 15% to over
50%; the average rate of return is about 30%. Tables describing character-
istics of these subprojects are in the project files.
1/   The average fixed costs per job of subloans above Tk 100,000 has been
US$2,400 (Tk 36,700); the average of subloans of up to Tk 100,000 has
been about US$900 (Tk 14,000).



-46 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Project selection criteria and increased decentralization in
appraisal responsibility appear to have resulted in selection of subprojects
of greater diversity and higher economic merit under Credit 825-BD compared to
Credit 353-BD. Approved subprojects as they appear in the appraisal reports
are compared in the following table:
ssi I               ssi II
(As of Feb. 28, 1980)
Profile
(a) number of subprojects                  38                   129
(b) subloan amounts (Tk million)          31.4                   83.2
(c) average subloan size (Tk 000)        826                    645
(d) fixed cost per job (Tk 000) /a        40                     31
(e) average percentage of local
raw materials to total              49                     87
(f) percentage of subprojects outside
Dacca, Chittagong, and Khulna       11                     60
Percentage of Subprojects in
(a)  food and allied /b                   34                     35
(b)  textiles, garments                   42                      5
(c)  engineering                            8                    19
(d)  printing                               8                     5
(e)  ice plants for fishing                 -                    15
(f)  chemical industries /c                 -                    12
(g)  others                                 5                     9
/a   SSI I had fixed costs per job of as high as Tk 80,000, while for SSI II,
the maximum is Tk 45,000.
/b   While, under Credit 353-BD, oil and flour mills represented 85% of agro-
based subprojects, in Credit 825-BD these groups have constituted 31%
with subprojects also in rice, seafood freezing, sugar and poultry.
/c   E.g., ink, starch, plaster of paris, pharmaceuticals.



BANGLADESH
Geographical Distribution of Small-Scale Industries
(in thousands of takas)
Number                                  No. of Persons Employed     Wages and Salaries       Raw Materials
of          Total          Plant and      Total    Production    Total       Production          and        Electricity         Net
District           Units      Investment       Machinery    Employees    Workers   Employees        Workers      Spare Parts      and Fuels       Receipts       Gross Output    Value Added
Chittagong                 2,890     144,950,187      90,685,316      15,066    10,674    52,656,756    36,180,505      293,243,744    38,339,465      120,781,466      349,817,173      139,007,430
Chittagong Hill Tracts       223       7,410,185        3,846,837      1,649     1,238     4,576,995      3,271,133      11,204,349      1,884,724       6,176,141       12,970,577        6,357,061
Noakhali                   1,136      82,718,025      40,279,160       5,706     3,396    21,502,520    14,346,420      113,372,585    20,651,261       69,554,710      145,255,791      75,786,447
Sylhet                     1,262      75,737,362      34,092,757       8,097     5,339    29,969,983    20,037,641       78,432,106    15,216,374       66,592,693      100,848,109      74,010,891
Dacca                      6,444     645,559,924      356,022,764     43,636    32,075   181,174,885   131,710,226      900,115,835    90,365,266      318,087,894   1,263,639,535      591,246,328
Comilla                    1,556     137,898,335      56,630,950       7,841     6,119    32,999,712    26,395,230      345,196,197    22,151,096       60,477,744      448,684,718     136,815,169
Rajshahi                   1,122      85,215,927      42,643,500       9,988     6,323    20,094,880    10,734,540      128,240,994    18,103,989       72,075,750      165,167,001      89,097,774
Bogra                        484      41,150,517      19,408,964       9,119     1,857    10,653,012      7,109,904      32,732,688      6,851,072      31,005,574       48,559,037      30,064,851
Frridpur                   1,032      54,757,491      30,600,717       3,695     2,594    11,495,517      7,955,680      31,745,910    10,490,711       69,489,870       21,483,022      48,736,271
Mymensing                    845      40,931,460       21,281,363      3,467     2,463    12,548,748      8,654,664      19,932,241      9,384,885      40,387,821       23,529,910       34,520,603
Tangail                      349      14,946,338        7,882,874      2,884     2,437     6,739,759      5,196,049      19,996,717      3,928,611      11,750,700       25,995,240      13,825,612
Khulna                     1,703     146,717,202      67,268,433      11,261     7,816    41,564,653      9,214,256      88,112,813    27,280,850      127,282,840      117,244,532     129,133,709
Kushtia                      403      28,805,913      15,654,013       1,636     1,122     5,897,982     4,072,920       13,451,980      5,034,392      26,854,096       17,730,171      26,097,895
Barisal                    1,062      62,481,647      36,601,594       8,277     4,726    29,986,647    16,594,096      217,503,467    21,255,982       40,448,828      265,706,055      67,395,434
Jessore                      920      94,537,264      35,200,973       4,427     3,153    14,182.060      9,938,500     129,967,964    14,231,679       43,490,436      190,573,281      89,864,074
Patuakhali                   320      17,894,501        7,946,447      2,872     1,560     9,501,700      5,615,500      73,266,936      4,051,069       4,228,000       88,698,503      15,608,498
Dinajpur                     638      44,150,028       22,781,493      6,788     4,197    22,215,117    13,222,207      111,462,338      8,789,732      39,400,000      130,433,221      49,581,151
Pabna                      1,457      96,169,173      60,981,327      23,559    12,183    70,177,857    34,391,392      352,880.645      7,650,574      38,798,178      451,341,068     129,608.027
Rangpur                      833      60,167,259       32,876,412      5,473     3,24?    19,166,468    12,011,730      197,679,543      7,745,602      36,483,933      236,466,847      42,258,345
Jamalpur                     329      13,973,948       6,140,769       1.902     1,413     6.488,807      4.505.522      30.350.707     4.604,529       12.567.683       33.397.109      11.009.356
GRAND TOTAL          25.032   1.897.708_746      989,939.963    177.459             544.079.438   381.616.302   3.189.710.149   338.249.351   1.230,667,297   4340.162.212    . i2
Source:   1978/79 Survey of Small Industries conducted by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation.



BANGLADESH
Distribution of Small-Scale Industries by Subsectori/
(in thousands of takas)
Number                                No. of Persons Emdloyed         Wages and Salaries        Raw Materials
of          Total       Plant and       Total      Production         All       Production          and        Electricity       Net           Gross        Value
Industrial Subsector                 Units     Investment   Machinery    Employees    Workers           Emplovees    Workers         SPare Parts    and Fuels        Receipts        Ontlut       Added
Food and allied products               17,356      1,192,331    564,886         95,008        65,241        328,413      219,129         1,805,721        238,042       958,886      2,255,506   1,155,591
Textile, weaving apparel and            2,442        178,689      90,925        32,459        18,145        106,855       61,121           611,406         14,795        24,392        769,852      168,178
leather                                                
Wood and wood products including          920         83,785      42,879         7,205          5,029        40,611       21,520             92,585        12,010         47,896       134,654       79,949
furniture
Paber and paper products,               1,111        147,654    104,879          7,649          5,439        32,150       22,577            115,863         7,844         68,794       203,905      140,290
printing and publishing                                                                                                                                                                                      .,
Chemicals, petroletum, coal,              526         67,341      30,929         5,796          3,767        25,105       16,505            202,686        10,824         12,004       265,328       63,881
rubber and plastic products              5           6           3
Non-metallic mineral products,
except products of petroleum and         216         23,153       8,716         8,092         6,878         21,886       17,158            50,854         27,635            965       111,237       33,708
coal
Basic metal industries                  1,719        157,616     112,385        10,970          7,934        47,500       34,848            166,901        17,195       108,097        223,485      139,208
Fabricated metal products,                657         51,209      35,779         4,566          3,536        18,407       13,591            136,117        10,986        31,284        165,322       49,402
machinery and equipment
Other manufacturing                       137         55.003       1,398           476            321         1.538        1,061              7.438           739            952         9,576        2.348
GRAND TOTAL                      25,084                     999267781  9   7            116 290       622.462      407.510          3,189.571        340.070     1.253.270    4.138,865   1.832.555
Source: 1978/79 Survey of Small Industries conducted by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation.
1/  This survey includes indutries with fixed investment including land of up to Tk 2.5 million.



- 49 -                                        ANNEX 2
Table 3
BANGLADESH
INDICATORS OF PERFORMANCE IN LARGE AND SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES
1/
Share of 7% of Total                             Ratio in Takao
Value Added per
Value       Fixed                          Fixed Investment   Unit of Labor
Industrial Subsector              Added    Investment    Employment           per Employee        & Capital Cost 2/
Food and Allied Products                  66          35              35                  9.400               26.10
Large                                     60          19 13                              14.101               14.76
Small                                      6          16              22                  6.700               47.00
Textile, Weaving Apparel
and Leather                                9          17              31                  5.219                6.30
Large                                      4          11               9                 11.973                4.10
Small                                      5           6              22                  2.472                9.50
Wood and Wood Products
Including Furniture                        2           2               6                  3.529                1.00
Large
Small                                      2           2               6                  3.529                1.00
Paper and Paper Products,
Printing and Publishing                   20          18               4                 16.063                1.20
Large                                     13          16               2                 21.930                1.40
Small                                      7           2               2                  5.483                1.10
Chemicals, Petroleum, Coal,
Rubber and Plastic Products               15          14              16                  8.169               11.90
Large                                      8           8               9                  7.970               10.90
Small                                      7           6               7                  8.424               14.20
Non-metallic Mineral Products,
Except Products of Petroleum
and Coal                                   7           3               2                 10.465                2.00
Large                                      6           2                                 14.803                1.80
Small                                      1           1               2                 8.001                 2.30
Basic Metal Industries                    16           5               4                 11.034                2.70
Large                                      8                          T                  22.012                4.90
Small                                      8           2               3                  6.352                1.40
Fabricated Metal Products,
Machinery and Equipment                    4           4               9                  3.759                2.90
Large                                      -             
Small                                      4           4               9                  3.759                2.90
Other Manufacturing                       11           4               2                 20.028                1.50
Large                                      2           3               -                 34.920                3.00
Small                                      9           1               2                  7.978                0.90
Total                                    100         100             100                  9.344               14.80
Large                                     76          61              23                 17.407                9.30
Small                                     24          39              67                  5.407               36.00
1/ Figures do not add to 100 due to rounding.
2/ Assuming capital cost of 15%.
3/ Excluding tobacco and cigarettes.
Source: 1974 Manufacturing Census conducted by the Bureau of Statistics, Ministry of Industries.



-50-                                              ANNEX 2
Table 4
BANGLADESH
Demand for Credit by Small-Scale and Cottage Industries (SCIs)
at 1978/79 Prices
(in millions of takas)
Share of            Value added
Industrial    registered small   of unregistered   Total value
GDP at         GDP at         industries in        and cottage         added
factor cost   factor cost   industrial GDni/   industries /            SCIs
1978/79                                       136,632         10,317           4,127                2,682             6,809
Estimated growth rate 19791803/                      3%          4.5%               6%                  6%                 6%
1979/80                                       140,731         10,781           4,375                2,842              7,218
Projected average growth rate
1980/81-1981/824/                                   5%          5.5%            7.5%                 7.5%              7.5%
1981/82                                       155,156         11,999           5,056                3,284             8,340
Incremental value 1979/80-1981/82               14,425         1,218             681                  442             1,123
Assumed ICOR5/                                                   3.0             2.0                  0.5               1.25
Total fixed investment                                         3,654           1,362                  221             1,583
Assumed fixed investment/permanent
working capital ratio 6/                                                          1                    1                  1
Permanent working capital                                                      1,362                  221             1,583
Total investment                                                               2,724                  442             3,166
Credit financing7/                                                              0.33%                0.25%             0.29%
Credit demand                                                                    899                  111
Credit demand in millions of US$ 8/                                             58.0                  7.2              65.2
Assumed cumulative world inflation                                                17%                  17%                17%
rate for the period 1979/80-1981/82
Credit demand in millions of US$ in                                             67.7                  8.4              76.3
current prices
1/ National accounts data show that the share of small-scale industries in industrial GDP corresponds
to 40%. This does not irclude unregistered and cottage industries. The same share has been assumed
for the period 1980/81-1981/82.
2/ Extrapolating from the latest available cottage industry census (sample 61,000 firms), the value added
of this sector has been estimated at an additional 25% of the present industrial GDP, i.e. some 65%
of the value added of small-scale industries. This share is assumed to remain constant over the next
years.
3/ Corresponds to latest estimates by the Bangladesh Bank and World Bank staff and is based on actual
figures for the first half of that fiscal year.
4/ Growth rates projected by the Bangladesh Paanning Commission for the Second Five-Year Plan are higher.
These growth rates are based on the assumption that only part of the Development Plan will actually be
implemented.
5/ No consistent and well-founded calculation of ICORs for Bangladesh exist, mainly due to poor statistical
data. Attempts of such calculations show ICOR values of 2.7-3.5 for industry. Since small-scale indus-
tries are less capital intensive than large ones, the ICOR has conservatively been assumed at 2.0.
Similar ICORs have been calculated for other countries in the region. For cottage industries, the ICOR
is likely to be much lower.
6/ Although the statistical basis available indicates significantly higher ratios, this conservative
assumption has been adopted due to the usually heavily depreciated book value of fixed assets. It
coincides with analysis conducted by BSB and by the commercial banks.
7/ The assumptions for the share of credit financing in total investment requirements have been noted in
Chapter II, para. _ .  The share for cottage industries, which generally have even less access to
credit, has been assumed to be even smaller.
8/ Assuming a constant exchange rate of Tk 15.5/1JS$1.00.



ANNEX 2
Table 5
BANGLADESH
Interest Rate Structure
Percent
A. Bank Rate
General                                                                8.0
Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB) and Bangladesh Samabaya Bank              6.0
B. Deposit Rates
Special notice deposits                                              4.0-4.25
Savings deposits (with checking facility)                              4.5
Savings deposits (without checking facility)                           7.0 1/
Fixed deposits (3-6 months)                                            7.0 2
Fixed deposits (6-12 months)                                           7.5 2/
Fixed deposits (1-2 years)                                             8.25 2/
Fixed deposits (2-3 years)                                             9.25
Fixed deposits (3 years and over)                                     10.25 3/
Post savings deposits                                                8.5-11.25
C. Lending Rates
Commercial bank short-term loans                                    11.0-12.0
Jute trade, jute goods and tea                                        10.5
Other export commodities                                              10.5
Industrial loans (BSB and BSRS)4/5/
Domestic currency loans                                            11.5
Foreign currency loans                                           11.5-12.56/
Agricultural loans
Short-term loans for tea and jute                                  10.5
Short-term loans for potato storage                                12.5
Other short-term loans                                             11.0
Medium- and long-term loans                                        11.5
Long-term loans for shallow tubewells                              13.0
Long-term loans for tea development                                 9.0
Horticulture development in Chittagong H.T.                         5.0
Primary societies loans 7/                                         12.0
Construction loans (multi-dwelling units) 8/                           5.0
Construction loans (single dwelling units) 8/                         11.0
Source: Information supplied to the Third SSI appraisal mission by commercial
banks, BSB and Bangladesh Bank.
1/   Since October 1, 1978, interest on accounts opened by individuals in rural
areas is 7.75%.
2/   Since October 1, 1978, interest on accounts opened by individuals in rural
areas is 1-1.5 percentage points higher than in urban areas.
3/   BSB, BSRS and BKB can give 1 percentage point more on fixed-term deposits
than commercial banks.
4/   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank and Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha Bank.
5/   The lending rate should be 3.5% above the Bank rate, subject to a minimum
of 11.5%.
6/   Onlending of foreign aid funds is in accordance with the terms of the
respective aid agreements.
7/   Primary societies borrow from central cooperative banks at 9% which borrow
from the Bangladesh Samabaya Bank (Appex Cooperative Bank) at 7%.
8/   Loans by the Bangladesh House Building Finance Corporation.



-52-                                          ANNEX 2
_52-                             ~~~~~~~~Table 6
B A NG L A D E S H
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Table of Estimated Project Costs
(US $ million equivalent)
GOB/
IDA                  IDA           Implementing
Component                                (Foreign Currency)   (Local Currency)         Agency      Private Sponsor   Total
1.  Subloan Component                                     17.20                12.80               -at            12.86            42.86b/
II. Consultancy & Training for Bangladesh
Bank & Credit Institutions
-   Consultancy (2 man-years)                         0.20                   -                0.01              _               0.31
-   Training (foreign & local)                        0.06                  -                 0.03              -              0.09
Subtotal(II)                                          0.26                  -                 0.04              -              0.40
III.  BSCIC - Promotion and Extension
-   Subcontracting Exchange                            0.08                 0.12               0.10             _               0.30 c/
-   Subsector Schemes                                 0.27                 0.40               0.05              -               0.72 d/
-   Pilot Projects                                    0.42                  0.12               0.05            0.12             0.71 e/
-   Decentralization                                                                           0.35             -               0.35 f/
Subtotal(III)                                         0.77                 0.64               0.55             0.12            2.08
IV.  EPB - Handicraft & Light Industrial Export
& Product Development Fund
-   Consultancy                                        0.20                 0.20                -               -               0.40
-   Sales and Exposure Trips                           0.40                  -                  -              0.10             0.50
-   Staff                                              -                    -                 0.lOh/            -              0.10
Subtotal (IV)                                         0.60                 0.20               0.10             0.10             1.00
V.  IRDP Rural Enterprise Development
-   Tccinica' Servizes bv IRDP and .CCA               0.01                 0.02               0.o07/                           0.30
VI. Planning Commission - Study on Rural.Enterprise'
Potential and Institutions                            0.20                 0.20               0.40              -              0.80 h
VII.  Leather Technology Institute - Common Service
Facility
-   Facilities, equipment                             0.82                 0.48                0.66             -              1.96
-   Consultancy, training                             0.23                 0.10                0.10            -               0.60
Subtotal (VII)                                         1.05                 0.58               0.76             -              2.56
Unallocated                                            0.47                  -                   -              -               0.47
TOTAL                               20.56                14.44                1.92          13.08      '     5fl.nn
a/ Bangladesh Bank would use its resources as a revolving fund to cover the gap between refinance by Bangladesh Bank and with-
drawals from IDA. Bangladesh Bank and the participating banks would incur expenditures for direct SCI staff and overheads
in appraisal, supervision, and collections.  These administrative costs would be covered with the spreads.
b/ Subloan components include specific minimum allocations for export and rural enterprises.
c/ IDA contribution would include consultancy, outside training and equipment for subcontracting exchange.  GOB/impleuenting
agency contribution would include staff for BSCIC's subcontracting exchange, cost of land and buildings, engineers of
selected public sector corporations allocated to subcontracting work and overhead expenditures.
d/ Includes consultancy services.
e/ About ten "new style" pilot projects would be sponsored.  Private sponsor would contribute 10-70% of project
costs (through equity or loan); BSCIC would finance the remaining portion. Average project cost would be Tk. 800,000
in fixed assets.
f/ These are total costs.  BSCIC would need to determine portion of decentralized staff to be redeployed vs. recruitment.
g/ Private participants would pay an estimated 20% of sales and expolure trips.
h/ GOB would need to finance a revolving fund within EPB's Export and Product Development Fund to cover the gap between EPB's
payments for sales and exposure trips and withdrawals from IDA. The revolving fund should be of at least'Tk. 1,000,000.
Estimated staff and overheads by EPB to execute elements of the Export Fund are Tk. 450,000 for.three years.
i/ IDA would finance outside consultancy (5 man-months) for IRDP and TCCA rural enterprise staff.
j/ Includes estimates for IRDP and TCCA rural enterprises staff, supervisors, and overheads to operate the program.
k/ Assumes five man-years of consultancy.  Assumes 40 fulltime management, research, and analyst staff employed for three years,
plus overhead expenditures.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
for the Proposed Credit
Disbursements in SDR 000 (US$ 000)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                  By Quarter         Cumulative
FY81
To March 31, 1981                            2,100 (2,753)    2,100  (2,753)
June 30, 1981                            2,000 (2,622)    4,100  (5,375)
FY82
To September 30, 1981                        2,300 (3,015)    6,400  (8,390)
December 31, 1981                        3,100 (4,064)    9,500 (12,454)
March 31, 1982                           2,600 (3,408)   12,100 (15,862)
June 30, 1982                            2,700 (3,540)   14,800 (19,402)
FY83
To September 30, 1982                        2,900 (3,801)   17,700 (23,203)
December 31, 1982                        2,900 (3,801)   20,600 (27,004)
March 31, 1983                            2,700 (3,540)   23,300 (30,544)
June 30, 1983                            1,900 (2,491)   25,200 (33,035)
FY84
To September 30, 1983                          800 (1,048)   26,000 (34,083)
December 31, 1983                          400   (524)   26,400 (34,607)
March 31, 1984                              300   (393)   26,700 (35,000)



ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
1.   Sectoral and Policy Analysis
(a) Manufacturing Census, 1974, Bureau of Statistics.
(b) Small Industry Census, BSCIC, 1978/79.
(c) Rural Enterprise Study Report, Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies, 1979.
(d) Subsector Study on Engineering, BSCIC and JICA.
(e) Outline of Action Program.
2.   Subloan Component
(a) Annual Reports: Bangladesh Bank, Janata, Sonali and
Agrani Bank, BSB.
(b) Resume of the Financial Institutions (Fifth Issue)
1978-79, Bangladesh.
(c) Completed questionnaire on Sonali, Janata, and Agrani
Banks.
(d) Supervision Report on BSB, December 1979.
(e) Summary of subprojects approved and in pipeline by
Sonali, Janata under Credit 825-BD as of February 29,
1980.
(f) Relevant circulars by Sonali and Janata Bank on its SCI
operations and procedures.
(g) Bangladesh Bank Small Industry Credit Guarantee Scheme
and List of Required Revisions.
(h) Draft Terms of Reference for Advisors and Consultants.,
(i) Project Completion Report for First SSI Project (Credit
353-BD).
3.   Technical and Marketing Components
(a) Draft Strategy Statement Small Scale Industries for
Second Five Year Development Plan.
(b)  BSCIC - Administrative Scheme and Summary of Strategy,
Organization, Staff and Budget.
(c) Tentative Plan for Decentralization of Extension Staff.
(d)  Outline of Training Program, Extension Staff.
(e) Export Growth Strategy of Bangladesh.
(f) Summary of Organization, Staffing, Program and Budget
of Export Promotion Bureau.
(g) GOB Committee Report on Prospects in the Leather Sector.
(h) Summary of Organization, Staff, Program and Budget -
Institute of Leather Technology.
(i) Progress Reports on Integrated Rural Development Program.



