Document of
The World Bank                       '           COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2876-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
THIRD SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
August 25, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 36.30 (selling) and
36.25 (buying) to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to the
US Dollar and, consequently, the Taka/US Dollar rate is subject to change,
averaging about Tk 15.5/US$ over the past two years. The rate below has been
used throughout the report.
US$1          -  Tk 15.5
Tk 1           =  US$0.0645
Tk 1 million  -  US$64,500
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BADC    -   Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BCIC    -   Bangladesh Cottage Industries Corporation
BHMC    -   Bangladesh Handicrafts Marketing Corporation
BIBM    -   Bangladesh Institute of Banking Management
BIDS    -   Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies
BJMC    -   Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BSB     -   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSCIC   -   Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation
BSEC    -   Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation
BSFC    -   Bangladesh Sugar and Food Corporation
BSRS    -   Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC    -   Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
CI      -   Cottage Industry
EPB     -   Export Promotion Bureau
GOB     -   Government of Bangladesh
ILT     -   Institute of Leather Technology
IRDP    -   Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS     -   Krishi Samabaya Samity
(Village Level Cooperative Society)
PCI     -   Participating Credit Institutions
SCI     -   Small Scale and Cottage Industry
SID     -   Small Industry Department
SFYP    -   Second Five Year Plan
SSI     -   Small Scale Industry, excluding cottage.
TCCA    -   Thana Central Cooperative Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Beneficiaries:   Small-scale and cottage industries receiving credit and
services through Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs),
Bangladesh Small and Cottage Industries Corporation (BSCIC),
Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) and Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP).
Amount:           SDR 26.7 million (US$35 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Purpose:          To increase productivity, employment and exports in the small
and cottage industry sector by providing financial assistance
as well as technical and marketing services to: (a) organized
small industries and transport operations, (b) exporters and
manufacturers of handicrafts and light industrial products,
and (c) agro-related rural enterprises, utilizing the coopera-
tive network for rural enterprise promotion. Project risks
are mainly institutional: several elements, such as the
rural enterprise component, are innovative.
Relending
Terms:          The credit would provide US$5 million on a grant basis for
technical and marketing services to small-scale and cottage
industries. GOB would relend US$30 million to Bangladesh Bank
at 2-5% interest per annum, depending on subloan size and
type, over a period of up to 15 years, including up to 5 years
grace. GOB would bear the foreign exchange risk. Differen-
tial spreads would be applied as follows:
Direct Subloan (in Taka 100,000)
Up    5 to  15 to    All Loans
to 5    15      30   Through TCCA
GOB Charge to BB                  3%     4%      5%         2%
BB Spread                         2%     2%      2%         1%
PCI Spread (without guarantee)  8%        7%     6%         4%
TCCA Spread                       -              -          3%
Village Cooperative Spread        -      -       -          3%
Total                       13°%    13%    13%       13%
PCIs would be charged an additional 1% fee on the guaranteed
portion for elective participation in a guarantee scheme; the
guarantee fee would be deducted from their spread. Bangladesh
Bank would provide refinance to PCIs for an average of 7-9
years, to coincide with individual loan repayment periods.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
PCIs will make subloans to ultimate borrowers for up to 12
years, including 3 years grace, at an interest rate of not
less than 13% per annum.
Estimated
Project Costs:                                        Foreign  Local  Total
-   US$ Million-----
Subloan Component                      17.20   25.66  42.86
Services and Equipment
(a) BSCIC-Organized SSIs                0.77    1.31   2.08
(b) Institute of Leather Technology  1.05    1.34   2.39
(c) EPB Fund                            0.60    0.40   1.00
(d) IRDP Rural Enterprises              0.01    0.09   0.10
(e) Planning Commission Study           0.20    0.60   0.80
(f) Consultancy and Training -
Bangladesh Bank and
Credit Institutions              0.26    0.04   0.30
Subtotal, Services and Equipment        2.89    3.78   6.67
Unallocated                             0.47    -       0.47
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   20.56   29.44  50.00
Financing Plan:                                         Foreign  Local  Total
-----US$ Million-----
IDA                                    20.56   14.44   35.00
GOB                                      -       1.92    1.92
Private Sponsors                         -      13.08   13.08
Estimated                              IDA FY    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
Disbursements:                                   ---------US$ Million--------
Annual                          5.4   14.0       13.6      2.0
Cumulative                      5.4   19.4       33.0    35.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       N/A
Appraisal         Bangladesh:  Third Small-Scale Industry Project
Report:          Report No. 3017-BD, dated August 13, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH FOR A THIRD SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 26.7 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$35 million), on standard IDA terms, to help finance
a Third Small-Scale Industry project over four years. US$5 million would be
used to provide technical and marketing services to small-scale and cottage
industries. The US$30 million subloan component would be made available to
subborrowers at not less than 13% per annum interest through various lending
institutions of the Government of Bangladesh.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Position
and Short-Term Outlook" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 21,
1980.
Background
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its physical infrastructure severely
damaged by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor
harvests in 1972 and 1973 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output
fell drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76;
foodgrain imports averaging over 2.1 million tons per year were required
between FY72 and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption levels near minimum
requirements. There was also a sharp fall in industrial activity in the
early 1970s because of physical destruction, the departure of skilled labor
and managers, the disruption of established marketing outlets and patterns,
widespread nationalization, shortages of spare parts and crucial inputs, and
the scarcity of foreign exchange. Aggregate output in manufacturing recovered
to the pre-independence level only in FY75, the production of jute and of jute
products--the predominant export commodities--declined sharply in the after-
math of independence--and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declin-
ing real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. Relief, rehabilitation, the building of a national
government from a provincial administration, and the consolidation of Govern-
ment authority were necessarily of overriding concern for Bangladesh's policy
makers during the early 1970s.
4.        Some significant economic progress in the second half of the last
decade, together with greater political stability, has afforded Bangladesh's
planners and policy makers the opportunity to turn their attention from crisis
management to the longer-range objectives of development. Although it was not
until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence level, GDP has increased
by about 30% (in real terms) between FY75 and FY80--despite serious setbacks
in agricultural production in FY77 and again in FY79 and FY80. Output in



- 2 -
in manufacturing (as measured by the production index for large and medium-
sized industries) rose by about 7.5% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of
this growth taking place outside the jute industry. The late 1970s may be
seen, therefore, as a period of economic consolidation. The Two-Year Plan
period (FY79-FY80) was intended to comprise a period in which this economic
consolidation would be largely completed, and in which the country's develop-
mental priorities would be reconsidered prior to launching the Second Five-
Year Plan for the period FY81-FY85.
5.        The past two years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had been governed under martial law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Recent trends in a number of key economic indicators have been
encouraging. The overall direction of Government policies, similarly, has
been constructive and has contributed to the improved economic performance.
Actions have been taken, with varying degrees of success, to contain deficit
financing, to stem the growth of subsidies which have outlived their useful-
ness, to improve the operational efficiency and financial viability of some
public sector enterprises and utilities, to increase the use of fertilizer
and other modern agricultural inputs, to establish the foundations of an
effective family planning program, and to encourage a more active role by
the private sector in the promotion of economic development.
7.        Nevertheless, while many of the necessary foundations for more
rapid and sustainable growth have been laid, performance in many critical
areas--notably family planning, agricultural production, domestic savings
generation, public sector industrial efficiency, and export growth--remains
far from satisfactory. Administrative bottlenecks and the lack of adequate
management are among the primary causes for this still poor performance, which
is exemplified by low capacity utilization in most sectors of the economy.
8.        Economic growth, which had been rapid in FY78, slowed substantially
in FY79 and remained relatively modest in FY80. Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78, following a 2% rise
in FY77. But the experience of FY79 and FY80 again demonstrated the vulner-
ability of the Bangladesh economy to unfavorable weather conditions and the
difficulty of sustaining the positive trends of the late 1970s. Droughts and
floods adversely affected four successive rice crops in FY79 and FY80 as well
as the size and quality of the FY80 jute crop, with significant repercussions
throughout the rest of the economy. Inflation, aggravated by the shortfall
in foodgrain supplies and consequent rapid rise in rice prices, accelerated



- 3 -
to an annual rate of about 18% by the middle of FY80. The rate of growth of
GDP fell considerably, and inequities in income distribution worsened during
FY79 and early FY80 as the lower income groups were affected more severely
by the foodgrain shortages and fast-rising prices than the middle and higher
income groups. Excluding food budget transactions, the Governrent's current
budget surplus rose substantially in real terms in both FY79 and FY80. But
the balance of payments, which had been in overall surplus in FY79, deterior-
ated markedly in FY80, mainly as a consequence of costly food and petroleum
purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and FY80 averaged no more than 4.5% p.a. With
population growth still estimated at about 2.7% annually, average incomes
improved only moderately.
9.        This disappointing overall performance somewhat overshadowed a number
of encouraging developments and positive policy steps during this period.
These included: (i) the successful mobilization and distribution of nearly two
million tons of imported foodgrains in the first half of FY80; (ii) continued
rapid growth in wheat production and in fertilizer consumption; (iii) a
variety of policy measures taken to improve agricultural input availabilities,
to maintain incentive prices for farmers, to strengthen the administration of
the family planning program, and to foster a more active role by the private
sector; (iv) increased capacity utilization in several industries; (v) improved
budgetary performance reflecting a strengthened tax administration, some reduc-
tions in subsidies, and discipline in curtailing current expenditures; (vi)
substantial growth in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjustments
and other measures taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclusion of a
Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF.
10.       The slow growth of foodgrain production and the country's vulner-
ability to bad weather have become principal concerns of Bangladesh's poli-
tical leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) for
FY81-FY85 gives top priority--together with the containment of population
growth and the achievement of mass literacy--to the expansion of foodgrain
production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the end of the Plan
period. The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when the severe drought
(combined with a major slippage in expected foodgrain imports) caused a
dangerous erosion of food stocks, and required an all-out effort by the
administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the importance
of freeing the country from this perennial threat of crop failures and wide-
spread starvation. At the same time, the Government's efforts to contain
the crisis--although efficiently executed and successful--demonstrated the
high cost of diverting scarce administrative resources and public attention
from development to short-term problems. Although the immediate food situa-
tion appears to have stabilized with good wheat, boro and aus crops in 1980,
public grain stocks are still well below desirable levels and are unlikely
to reach the recommended 1.2 million tons by December 1980 and 1.5 million
tons by June 1981 even though the Government recently has purchased further



substantial food imports on commercial terms to supplement procurement from
domestic crops and aid-financed food imports. 1/
11.       The prospects for rapid overall growth in FY81 are relatively favor-
able, provided the weather is reasonably good and the volume of commodity aid
is sufficient to permit increased imports of fertilizers, cement, petroleum
and other raw materials and intermediate goods. These conditions permitting,
foodgrain production should increase by more than a million tons above the
FY80 level, in which case overall GDP growth might be as high as 7-8% despite
an unfavorable short-term outlook for the jute sector and for jute goods
exports.
The Balance of Payments
12.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is--and will continue to be--
characterized by a massive structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on
foreign aid. Export earnings in FY79 represented less than 7% of GDP and less
than 40% of the import bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports are dominated by
raw jute and jute goods, which together account for approximately 70% of total
export earnings. Although exports increased by about 20% in value in FY79 and
the terms of trade improved somewhat during the year, total imports also rose
by about 20%, and the trade deficit widened to $1 billion. Among the notable
developments on the import side in FY79 was the temporary decline in foodgrain
imports, caused mainly by delays in food aid arrivals. Imports of capital
goods rose by 21% to US$384 million; fertilizer imports nearly doubled in
value, and there were significant increases also in imports of petroleum
products and cement.
13.       The current account deficit in recent years has been considerably
smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the rapid growth of workers'
remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are now the second most
important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded only by jute goods
exports. A significant development in the FY79 capital account was a US$100
million increase in project aid disbursements, reflecting in part the country's
growing absorptive capacity. Total aid disbursements exceeded US$1 billion
for the first time in FY79, and were equivalent to 63% of total merchandise
imports. Debt service payments rose to US$95 million in FY79 and an estimated
US$123 million in FY80, notwithstanding some debt relief measures undertaken
by various donors. The debt service ratio deteriorated from 13.5% in FY78 to
15.8% in FY79 and to about 17% in FY80.
1/   A special meeting of the Bangladesh Aid Group was convened in January
1980 to consider the country's food situation, import requirements and
policy measures needed to prevent repetitions of the recent experience.
The recommended food import and stock levels noted above were set forth
in a Bank report entitled "Bangladesh: Food Policy Issues" (No. 2761-BD,
dated December 19, 1979). This report was distributed to the Executive
Directors in December 1979, and contains these recommendations.



- 5 -
14.       between August 1978 and August 1979, Bangladesh undertook a series
of exchange rate adjustments whereby the Taka was devalued by about 24%
against the Pound Sterling. These adjustments served to strengthen somewhat
the balance of payments and the allocation of resources within the economy.
In July 1979 the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period of one
year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and
including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's external financing requirements
in FY80.
15.       The terms of trade remained essentially unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods helped offset the impact of rising petroleum and
other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about 24%
and imports by over 50% in value; foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone
accounted for over three quarters of the increase in imports. The current
account deficit widened considerably, primarily due to large increases in
the volume and price of foodgrain imports and to significant price increases
for imported crude oil and petroleum products. At about US$250 million,
reserves at the end of FY80 were equivalent to a little more than one month's
projected FY81 imports. The FY80 current account deficit was largely covered
by disbursements of approximately US$400 million in food aid, US$500 million
in commodity aid and US$475 million in project aid.
16.       The FY81 balance of payments situation is expected to be difficult.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import
prices. In addition, commodity aid availabilities are not projected to grow
very substantially in FY81. As a consequence, a current account deficit of
US$1.7 billion is anticipated, compared with a deficit of US$1.6 billion in
FY80.
Public Finance
17.       The Government's finances improved considerably in FY79 and remained
relatively strong in FY80. In both years, the current budget surplus increased
in both relative and absolute terms. Nevertheless, inflation again became a
serious problem in FY79 and early FY80, and the implementation of many projects,
both aid-supported and non-aided, continues to be hampered by insufficient or
tardy allocation of domestic funds. Further improvements in the mobilization
of domestic resources are urgently needed if the ratio of public investment to
GDP is to be taised above the 8-10% level of recent years.
18.       The task of raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving not only a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of the
public sector business enterprises and utilities, but also a reduction of
the major subsidies, particularly those on food and on fertilizer. Reflect-
ing its growing awareness of the problem, the Government impaneled a Taxation
Enquiry Commission in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review
various aspects of public financial resource mobilization. The five commit-
tees reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy;
(ii) rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies;
(iii) economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural



- 6 -
input subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in
the financial performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have
concluded their work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission
was submitted to the Government in April 1979.
19.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups, especially those in regard to tax administration.
In mid-1978, the Government increased railway fares, and in the course of
FY79 and FY80 it raised foodgrain ration prices, several utility rates, and
commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises. Fertilizer prices, for
example, were increased by an average of 28% in August 1979 and petroleum
product prices by up to 45% in November 1979; issue prices for foodgrains
from the public distribution system were increased in May 1979 and again in
May 1980 by a combined 40%, as the Government began to move towards a gradual
elimination of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases, these price adjustments
only kept up with inflation, but in others--notably the food and fertilizer
subsidies--they served to reduce the unit subsidy in real terms. The subsidy
on petroleum products is to be eliminated entirely during FY81.
20.       The Government is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policies of public sector
enterprises and utilities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the financing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
21.       Current budget revenues increased by 21% in FY79 and by 22% in FY80,
reflecting primarily the continued growth of merchandise imports and, hence,
of import duties and sales tax receipts. Current expenditures rose by only 9%
in FY79, but by 19% in FY80 owing to inflationary tendencies in general and a
large increase in the total cost to the budget of the foodgrain subsidy in
particular (caused by the need to purchase and distribute large quantities of
grains in order to avert a famine). Development expenditures (in current
prices) increased by almost 40% in FY79; the increase in development activity
was also reflected in the augmented disbursement of project aid which rose by
an estimated 39% in FY79. In FY80 development expenditure continued to in-
crease at a relatively high rate. However, FY80 also witnessed a hightening
of resource availability for development expenditure largely as a result of
the decline in the generation of counterpart funds from food aid, as public
grain stocks needed to be built up again from their severely depleted level
at the end of FY79. To finance the gap between resource availability and
expenditures the Government had to recourse to borrowing from the banking
system. Development activities financed through Food-for-Work allocations
also continued to show significant progress, more than the doubling over the
FY79 level as large quantities of foodgrains were made available in support of
the countrywide canal excavation campaign.
22.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked pri-
marily by excessive liquidity creation by th! banking system) continued into
FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose
very rapidly. The cost-of-living (COL) index for urban consumers rose by



an estimated 19% between June 1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase
in average rice prices; since most of this rise occurred in the last months
of the year, however, the average COL index for FY79 stood only 9% above
the average for FY78. Rice prices levelled off in the second half of 1979,
and the inflationary pressure eased considerably during FY80. Nevertheless,
for the year, as a whole, the COL index was about 15% higher than in FY79,
with liquidity expanding by some 18%.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
23.       As noted above, FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year
Plan, which was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for
preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the new
Plan, its authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the
economy over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient
irrigation and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic
resource mobilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also
analyzed the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the
economy: an environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital
stock; a high rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distri-
bution of income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land;
extreme fragmentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predom-
inantly rural population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expec-
tancy; high unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibili-
ties outside agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for
investment financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.
24.       The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May 1980
and undergoing final public discussion, accords top priority to three major
efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with
domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to an annual amount of 20
million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the current population growth rate of
2.7% per annum through vigorous implementation of family planning programs
aimed at bringing the net reproduction rate (NRR) 1/ down to unity by the year
1990; and (iii) a drive for mass literacy through the vehicle of free and
universal primary education.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
25.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, 45 new credits have been approved, totaling US$1,271.7
million; of these, US$600 million have been for program credits (eight import
program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II contains a
sumimary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of July 30, 1980,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh
became a member of the IFC, and investments for a shipbuilding and engi-
neering company and an investment promotion company have been approved.
1/   A net reproduction rate of 1 is achieved when each woman bears only one
daughter who in turn will reach reproductive age.



26.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79. 1/  (if workers'
remittances amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export
earnings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.) While
the debt service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% before the mid-1980s, it
could do so thereafter, unless careful debt management policies are pursued
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms. Bangladesh's total
outstanding and disbursed external public debt amounted to just over US$3 bil-
lion as of June 30, 1979, with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting
for 25% of the total. In FY79, the Bank Group accounted for 9% of Bangladesh's
total debt service payments; because assistance is now entirely in the form of
IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
27.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 35 new project credits approved since independence, and two ferti-
lizer imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the
Government's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on
projects that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, irrigation,
improved seeds, extension, credit and storage facilities.
28.       Small and cottage industries are an important element complementing
the Government's rural development and employment generation strategy. Two
previous small scale industries credits (353-BD and 825-BD) provided US$3
million and US$ 7 million respectively. Industry has also been the main
beneficiary of the eight import program credits approved to date. For the
reasons summarized in paragraphs 25-27 of the President's Report for the
Eighth Imports Program Credit (Credit 980-BD), program lending will con-
tinue to be a desirable component of IDA operations in Bangladesh. The indus-
trial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer production projects, a
jute industry rehabilitation project, and from a DFC project. IFC is currently
in the process of identifying further suitable investment opportunities.
29.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an ex-
tremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capacity.
The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and a second
population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and availability
of trained manpower is also crucial, and lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural, technical and vocational training. IDA should continue to
provide assistance to critical infrastructural areas such as transportation,
energy and power, and telecommunications. A first power project was approved
in late FY79 and a second highway project was approved during FY80. A fer-
tilizer transportation project is currently under consideration.
30.       Disbursement of the program credits has proceeded satisfactorily;
however, project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Some
progress has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement picture
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.



- 9 -
is improving. IDA and GOB have given increased emphasis to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is
providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical assist-
ance credits (Credits 622-BD and 872-BD) to assist in improving planning,
project prep -ation and implementation capabilities.
31.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order to
direct IDA lending to those sectors--such as agricultural and rural develop-
ment--where the percentage of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the
financing of local currency expenditures is fully justified.
32.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on development strategy.
It is also designed to enhance coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
PART III - THE SECTOR
33.       The growth performance of the manufacturing sector during the last
three years has been mixed. In FY78, manufacturing output increased by 8.6%
in real terms, pushed by liberalized import policies which led to increased
investments as well as improved capacity utilization. Good agricultural
performance led to rising rural incomes and increased demand for small-scale
and cottage industries (SCIs). This growth could not be sustained in FY79
and FY80. In FY79, value-added in large-scale industries rose by only 6%,
mainly due to shortages of raw materials during the drought-depressed crop
year as well as to prolonged power failures. Rural and cottage industries
were even more seriously affected by the drought, recording only 2.5% growth.
With respect to industrial exports, substantial gains in unit export prices
for jute goods more than offset the fall in export volume; earnings from
non-traditional exports (mainly leather, frozen seafood, newsprint, and handi-
craft products) increased their share of total exports from 10% in FY77 to 14%
in FY80. The difficulties of the jute industry (strikes, power failures, and
the very high proportion of low-grade raw jute in last year's jute crop)
reduced overall output growth in larger-scale industry to an estimated 3.5% in
FY80, but the growth in value-added and output in SCIs recovered to about 6%.
Thus, the manufacturing sector as a whole contributed about 11% to GDP in
FY80. Of this, over 50% was accounted for by large-scale firms, mainly in the
public sector, employing some 350,000 persons. Private SCIs account for about
90% of value-added in private manufacturing; they consist of about 30,000
registered firms and half a million unregistered cottage and rural enterprises
employing roughly 4-5 million persons. Recently, GOB adopted a number of
policy changes designed to promote private industrial investment including
improved investment incentives and availability of term credit; major efforts
in these areas and in the provision of technical services still are required,
however, to improve efficiency and capacity utilization.



- 10 -
Characteristics and Role of Small and Cottage Industries
34.       GOB recently expanded its definition of small-scale industries to
include firms with up to Tk 2.5 million in plant and equipment excluding land
and buildings. On this basis, small industries account for about 45% of
registered private firms, all unregistered firms, 80% of industrial employment,
and 50% of investment in industry. Cottage and rural industries employ fewer
than 10 workers, normally family members; most operate without electric power.
About 50% of registered SCIs are located in the Dacca area, with secondary
concentrations around Chittagong and Khulna. Unregistered firms are more
widely dispersed, with only about 5% of these units in larger cities. Six
subsectors--food processing, power and handloom, wood, leather, paper, and
metal products--account for over 90% of employment, investment, and value-
added of registered small industries. The largest single group is agro-
processing. Among unregistered SCIs, handloom weaving accounts for about half
of enterprises and employment, with secondary concentrations in food process-
ing, and in cane bamboo and wood products. Available statistics indicate
that SCIs compare favorably with large firms on efficiency measures in most
subsectors in which SCIs are active. In these major groups, SCIs have lower
capital-labor ratios and higher value-added per unit of labor and capital
cost.
35.       Increased public investment in agriculture is expected to generate
additional demand for implements, spares, repair services, and construction
materials. Considerable potential exists in agro-related activities such as
processing agricultural, fisheries and livestock products, and in beekeeping,
small livestock, and pond fisheries which use local raw materials, have strong
local demand and require limited land, capital, and skills. Significant scope
also exists for expanded exports of handicrafts, finished leather and leather
products, cane and bamboo products, ready made garments, ceramics and spices.
All of these products can be made efficiently by SCIs; most build on tradi-
tional skills, use local raw materials and require labor intensive processes.
Improvements are needed in market information, product quality and design,
organization of the decentralized production base, and contacts with buyers.
36.       The Second Five-Year Plan in the industrial sector gives priority
to development of small enterprises, particularly in rural areas, in meeting
its growth, employment, and export objectives. GOB had previously considered
concessional interest rates, reservation of product groups and compulsory
public procurement for SCIs; under the Second Five-Year Plan, however, GOB has
shifted to an incentive strategy which focuses on providing term credit to
SCIs with attractive spreads for participating banks, encouraging decentrali-
zation of large firms to stimulate subcontracting links with small industries,
and initiating a system of preferential but not compulsory public sector pro-
curement from SCIs. Although the draft Industrial Investment Schedule for
1980-82 included separate allocations for SCIs, GOB would use these alloca-
tions only as guidelines rather than as restrictions, in order to avoid
possible misallocation of scarce resources. To assist the Government in
formulating strategies and priorities for the promotion of SCIs, the proposed
project would help finance technical assistance for a study by the Planning
Commission to determine the most promising areas for investment.



- 11 -
37.       The present incentive framework for exporters includes income tax
rebates, bonded warehouse facilities, export subsidies, duty reductions, and
an export credit guarantee scheme. However, implementation problems exist,
and thorough review and streamlining of the system as envisaged under the
Eighth Imports Program Credit (Credit 980-BD) are necessary. Feur areas are
of particular importance for SCIs and related exporters. First, most new and
small exporters face difficulties in obtaining pre-export financing from the
commercial banks. Coverage of the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme is limited,
capitalization small, and procedures for application complicated. Bangladesh
Bank should intensify its efforts to improve this scheme. Second, procedural
complexities hamper implementation of the import duty drawback system; GOB
intends to accelerate the activities of the committee reviewing these proce-
dures to meet the completion date of July 31, 1981 required under the Eighth
Imports Program Credit. Third, the present Export Performance License System
is complicated and does not provide an effective incentive to save foreign
exchange; but improvements are also being sought under the Eighth Imports
Program Credit. Finally, the promotional capabilities of the Export Promotion
Bureau have improved significantly and it now needs to increase its role as a
catalyst for product development and increased production of export goods.
Financing Small-Scale Industries
38.       About 80% of term credit to industry is provided by two industrial
development banks, the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) and the Bangladesh Shilpa
Rin Sangstha (BSRS). Nine commercial banks provide mainly short-term credit,
although the banks have increased project-based lending to SCIs under special
schemes. Limited capital market activities are undertaken by the government-
owned Investment Corporation of Bangladesh (ICB). From FY77 to FY79, domestic
credit by the banking system grew by some 50%. In the same period, savings
grew sluggishly and commercial banks continued to rely heavily on refinance
from Bangladesh Bank. Lending to private industry increased from 23% to 26%
of total industrial credit between FY78 and FY79, but credit was tightened at
the start of FY80 in response to inflationary pressures. Term loans to small
enterprises account for about 25% of term financing for private industry. In
the past, small amounts of term credit for SCIs were provided through BSCIC
which shared appraisal responsibilities with the commercial banks. Under the
Second Small-Scale Industry Project (Credit 825-BD), the two largest commer-
cial banks, Janata and Sonali, have built independent capability for appraisal,
follow up and supervision of small industry projects. Similar capabilities
would be established in Agrani and in any other commercial banks that subse-
quently participate in the proposed project, following agreement of GOB and
IDA.
39.       Lending to SCIs has increased by about 30% per annum in nominal terms
in the last two years. Demand for credit under the Second Small-Scale Industry
Project has been strong with the US$6.2 million Sub-loan component fully conr-
mitted by the banks by June 30, 1980, well ahead of schedule, and pipelines
totalling about US$4.5 million. Potential demand for credit by SCIs, based
on conservative assumptions, could amount to roughly US$45 million per year
in current prices. Assuming that the banks will continue lending about US$5
million per annum in current prices to SCIs from their internal resources,
the financing gap could amount to US$80 million over the two-year commitment



- 12 -
period. The IDA credit would provide US$30 million to cover part of this
potential financing gap and US$5 million to finance technical and marketing
services. The residual financing gap would need to be met through self-
finance, and reliance on informal financing sources.
40.       Currently, commercial banks charge 11-12% per annum for industrial
loans; BSB and BSRS charge an average of 11.5%. Cottage industries, with
limited access to institutional finance, borrow from money lenders whose rates
are substantially higher. The rate of inflation, which averaged 12.5% during
FY78 and FY79, escalated to some 18% by the middle of FY80, but has slowed
since. The main factor contributing to the surge in inflation was the increase
in food prices due to shortages caused by drought. Escalating costs of imported
goods, adjustments in many administered prices, and rapid liquidity expansion
in FY79 in the context of slower economic growth exerted further pressures. If
weather conditions are reasonably good in FY81 and FY82, inflation could return
to levels of about 10-12%. GOB is considering an upward adjustment in general
interest rates, since at present lending rates are negative in real terms and
have been so in all but two years since independence. In order for interest
rates to be positive in real terms, the on-lending rate to SCI borrowers under
the proposed Credit would not be less than 13%, with GOB bearing the exchange
risk.
41.       Experience Under Previous Projects.  The First Small-Scale Industry
Project (Credit 353-BD), approved in December 1972, provided US$3 million,
mainly to finance foreign exchange portions of small industry loans. The
Bangladesh Small Industry Corporation was responsible for appraising and
supervising subprojects, while participating commercial banks assessed clients'
creditworthiness, disbursed funds, and collected repayments. As indicated
in the Project Completion Report of May 1979 (PPAR No. 2982), the objectives
and impact of Credit 353-BD were modest. Thirty-eight gubprojects were
financed, mainly in synthetic textiles and oil milling, in the three major
urban centers. Repayment performance, initially poor, has improved as the
banks have increased attention to follow-up collections. Arrears were reduced
from 61% as of June 1978 to about 35% as of February 1980. The US$7 million
Second Small-Scale Industry Project (Credit 825-BD), effective in September
1978, provides credit for SCI through the two major commercial banks, Janata
and Sonali, with an 18 month transitional period of joint appraisal by the
lending bank and BSCIC, followed by autonomous appraisal by the banks. As of
June 30, 1980, the US$6.2 million subloan component was fully committed by the
banks; IDA approvals totalled about US$4.7 million and IDA disbursements and
L/C openings represented about 25% of the Sub-loan component. GOB and IDA have
determined that Janata and Sonali have demonstrated satisfactory appraisal
skills, and that participating banks would have autonomous appraisal respon-
sibility under the proposed project. Comparisons of subproject appraisal
reports indicate that, in accordance with the criteria established under the
Second Project, subprojects under Credit 825-BD have been more varied and
geographically dispersed, more labor-intensive, and more dependent upon loan
inputs than those financed under Credit 353-BD. Developments under Credit
825-BD provide the institutional base for sizeable involvement by IDA in SCI
lending. The technical service component has been useful in helping BSCIC
develop systematic tools for promotion and extension work, and in helping BHMC
to organize and provide marketing and extension services to about 1,500 jute,
cane and bamboo artisans.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The Project was appraised in February-March 1980.  Negotiations
were held in  ashington on August 1 and 2, 1980.  The Government of Bangladesh
was represented by a team led by Mr. Matiul Islam, Secretary, Ministry of
Industry. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3017-BD, dated August 13, 1980)
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A timetable of
key events relating to the Project and special conditions of the credit are
provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
43.       The principal objectives of the proposed Project would be to
increase productivity, employment and exports in the SCI sector by addressing
constraints in three major subsectors: (a) organized small industries and
cargo transport operations serving local markets; (b) exporters and decentral-
ized manufacturers of handicrafts and light industrial products; and (c) agro-
related rural enterprises. To meet these objectives, the project would have
two major components, with the proposed IDA credit providing US$30 million
for the subloan component, and US$5 million for technical and marketing serv-
ices. The Project would build on and extend SCI lending capabilities devel-
oped within the leading commercial banks under the Second Small-Scale Industry
Project. New and existing SCI firms or cooperatives engaged in a range of
manufacturing, industrial service, transport and agro-related activities would
be eligible for credit. The technical service component would focus on needs
in selected promising product groups and would seek to strengthen promotion
and extension services, facilitate links between small enterprises and larger
manufacturing and exporting firms, and use the cooperative network for rural
enterprise promotion. The Project would be national in-scope.
Project Description
44.       The Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) consisting of the
three largest commercial banks (Janata, Sonali, and Agrani Banks) and the
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB), would be responsible for appraisal, onlending,
supervision, and collections of SCI subloans. SCI lending activities would
be supported by:
(a) supplying US$30 million equivalent to help fill the gap
between SCI term lending requirements and credit resources
available to SCIs;
(b) establishing the SCI Refinance Unit within the Bangladesh
Bank to do rapid subproject review and refinance of sub-
loans made by the PCIs to eligible SCIs; and
(c) providing inducements to PCIs to increase financing of
viable SCIs through an improved credit guarantee scheme,
simplified authorization procedures, and differential
spreads; PCIs would receive higher rates for smaller proj-
ects, since these tend to be more costly to administer,
and may also involve higher risks.



- 14 -
The technical and marketing service component would:
(a) strengthen BSCIC's promotion and extension services to organized
small industries by instituting changes in organization and
staffing and by implementing subsector-specific schemes, a
subcontracting exchange and district-level extension programs;
(b) promote expanded exports of light industrial and handicrafts
products by establishing a Light Industry and Handicraft
Export Product Development Program in the Export Promotion
Bureau, to finance assistance to exporters through (i) con-
sultancy in product adaptation and supply development; and
(ii) participation in sales and exposure trips;
Cc) establish a program to provide common facilities and technical
services for small- and medium-scale tanneries under the
Institute of Leather Technology;
(d) provide technical and organizational services and credit
channelling to establish agro-related rural enterprises
through IRDP and selected cooperatives;
(e) finance technical assistance for a Planning Commission study to
determine potential for rural enterprises and the appropriate
institutional services needed; and
(f) strengthen SCI lending capabilities of PCIs by providing
accelerated training for branch level staff, and providing
short-term advisors to strengthen SCI refinance operations in
Bangladesh Bank and to enhance technical appraisal capabilities
of the Small-Scale Industries Departments of PCIs.
Credit and Credit Institutions
45.       The SCI Refinance Unit in Bangladesh Bank would channel funds to
PCIs for SCI subloans. Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government and
Bangladesh Bank would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory
to the Association for the use of funds available under the credit, and
complete arrangements satisfactory to the Association for the establishment,
staffing, and operation of the SCI Unit (Sections 3.02(a) and (b), 3.03,
6.01(a) and (c) of the Development Credit Agreement). The SCI Unit would
apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Association in its review of
project approvals by PCIs for Sub-loans to be refinanced by the Bangladesh
Bank (Section 3.07(a) of the Development Credit Agreement); and Bangladesh
Bank would refinance subloans on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.07(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). Initially,
the three largest commercial banks (Janata, Sonali, and Agrani) and one
development bank (Bangladesh Shilpa Bank) would be eligible to become Parti-
cipating Credit Institutions in the proposed project (Section 1.02(f) of the
Development Credit Agreement); and it would be a condition of effectiveness
that at least two PCIs had signed participation agreements satisfactory to the
Association with Bangladesh Bank for access to this refinance facility (Sec-
tions 3.09 and 6.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement). Other banks also



- 15 -
would be eligible to participate if Bangladesh Bank and IDA agreed that the
concerned bank has established an adequate number of qualified staff for its
SID at headquarters, launched a program for training staff of key branches,
and signed a participation agreement acceptable to IDA with Bangladesh Bank.
46.       Subprojects eligible for refinance would involve the establishment,
balancing or expansion of private or cooperative enterprises involved in
manufacturing, processing, repair, handicraft production, and cargo transport
as well as agro-related activities such as fish ponds, beekeeping, and small
livestock. Economic eligibility criteria employed under Credit 825-BD would
be maintained; eligible firms would be those which, in addition to being
financially viable, have (a) fixed investments per job not exceeding Tk 50,000,
and (b) local raw materials or inputs involving prior local processing forming
at least 60% of the input value for industries serving local markets (Schedule
3, paragraph A of the Development Credit Agreement). Export-oriented firms
would need only to demonstrate that they would be net foreign exchange earners;
exceptions would be made for cargo transport enterprises and engineering
firms, since these tend to be key industries with strong linkages to other
sectors. Other subprojects which do not meet these specific criteria could
be considered; however, PCIs would need to provide economic and financial
justifications and obtain prior authorization by IDA. To assure access to
credit by smaller, export-oriented, cargo transport, and rural enterprises,
the following allocations of the subloan component would be made:
(a) a maximum of 60% (about US$18 million equivalent) of the
subloan component would be available for financing sub-
projects with fixed costs of above Tk 1 million each;
(b)  up to 15: (about US$4.5 million equivalent) would be
available for cargo transport enterprises without special
authorization by IDA; additional amounts would be available
subject to IDA review, wherein priority would be given to
fertilizer transport;
(c) a minimum of US$1 million equivalent for investment projects
would be provided for term credit to exporters of handicraft
and light industrial products and related SCIs; and
(d) a minimum of US$1 million equivalent would be provided for
rural enterprise loans through eligible TCCAs (Schedule 3,
paragraph C of the Development Credit Agreement).
47.       To enhance the subproject review and refinance capabilities of
Bangladesh Bank and the appraisal and supervision capabilities of PCIs, con-
sultancy and training would be provided on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement). The
project also provides for an advisor to the SCI Refinance Unit of Bangladesh
Bank for 12 months, six manmonths of consultancy for Agrani, and 3 manmonths
each for Janata and Sonali Banks to help establish the SCI operations. In
addition, the consultant provided to the SCI Unit of Bangladesh Bank would
study and make recommendations on Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management's
operations in terms of staffing, organization and training. Bangladesh Bank
intends to request financing under an IDA Technical Assistance Credit to



- 16 -
provide foreign training for four to six SCI staff prior to project imple-
mentation. In addition, foreign training for about 6 officers of the SCI unit
of Bangladesh Bank and about 16 SID officers from the PCIs would be funded
under the proposed project. The total cost of consultants' services totalling
about 24 manmonths is estimated at about US$0.20 million or about US$8,300 per
manmonth, including salary, allowances, travel and miscellaneous.
48.       Under the proposed project, Bangladesh Bank would operate a voluntary
SCI credit guarantee scheme, whereby banks choosing to have subloans covered
would pay 1% of the amount guaranteed to Bangladesh Bank. Guarantee coverage
would be 75% on subloans of up to Tk 500,000 and 50% on subloans of above
Tk 500,000. Amendments in Bangladesh Bank's existing credit guarantee scheme
would be needed prior to credit effectiveness to reflect the PCIs' autonomous
appraisal responsibilities, the tiering of guarantee coverage according to sub-
loan size, the voluntary nature of the scheme, and the automatic eligibility
for guarantee coverage of subloans refinanced by Bangladesh Bank under the
project (Sections 3.08 and 6.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). 1/
Technical and Marketing Services
49.       BSCIC would implement project elements dealing with major organized
SSI product groups, utilizing subsector analysis performed under the Second
Small-Scale Industry project. These elements would be geared to accelerate
growth in light engineering, woodworking, selected agro-industries and garment
production, to promote links between SSIs and public corporations through the
establishment of a subcontracting exchange, to finance pilot projects involv-
ing BSCIC and private sponsors in setting up new types of enterprises, and
to strengthen services in the districts. For this purpose, BSCIC would, by
not later than January 31, 1981, furnish to the Association for its concur-
rence and thereafter carry out a first year action plan and a plan for improved
organization and training (Section 3.11(b) of the Development Credit Agreement),
and by January 1 of each subsequent year, furnish to the Association for its
concurrence and thereafter carry out an annual work plan (Section 3.11(c) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
50.       BSCIC's Industrial Extension Services Department (IESD) would be
reorganized along subsector lines to provide technical support and assistance
to extension workers in the districts. Initially, cells would be established
in light engineering, agro-processing, garments, and woodworking. Initially,
specialists would be assigned to a subsector cell for 24 manmonths each, to
assist in establishing technical support services and subsector specific
schemes. Costs for these subsector specialists would be about US$670,000;
qualifications and terms of reference for these specialists would be satisfac-
tory to the Association (Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement).
1/   The amendment providing differential coverage of 75% for smaller loans
could take more time, since approval of Parliament should be required,
therefore, the Association would consider waiving this provision for
purposes of Credit effectiveness.



- 17 -
51.       BSCIC would establish a subcontracting exchange to facilitate
manufacture of components and spare parts by SSIs for sale to public sector
corporations. Major functions of the s'ibcontracting exchange would be to
organize information on the corporations' requirements and SSI capabilities,
help small ir ustries get orders, and assist the SSI subcontractors in making
improvements, assure quality control and timely deliveries. Initially, the
exchange would focus on the metal products. Major corporations in this
subsector have committed to assign at least one full time engineer to work
with BSCIC. BSCIC's subcontracting exchange would be staffed by seven profes-
sional and eight support staff. GOB would cover staffing costs; the IDA
portion of the credit (about US$200,000) would cover establishment costs for
the exchange, nine months of advisory services, and hiring of engineers on
a fixed contract basis to assist specific SSIs in establishing regular sub-
contracting operations.
52.       During the Second Five-Year Plan period, BSCIC plans to sponsor a
series of pilot projects wherein: (a) a suitable private sector partner
undertakes a share in management and investment in a joint venture with BSCIC
from the outset; (b) the pilot project has good prospects for replication;
and (c) the project represents a new type of enterprise which requires testing.
Proposals have been provided for technical collaboration by the National Small
Industries Corporation, Ltd. (NSIC) of India in pilot plants in rice husk ash
cement, handmade paper, and rubber erasers. About US$540,000 in project funds
would be allocated for about ten pilot projects with equipment costs averaging
US$30,000 and technical assistance averaging 6 months or roughly US$24,000 per
project. BSCIC would furnish technical and economic feasibility studies
detailing how the proposed pilot projects meet eligibility criteria, the
composition of managerial and technical staff, and ownership and implemen-
tation plans. BSCIC's first year action plan would specify that all pilot
projects would have a minimum 10% private investment and a major private
share in management.
53.       Services for Private Sector Tanneries.  The project would help
finance a program under the Institute of Leather Technology (ILT) to provide
leather finishing equipment and technical and training services to small- and
medium-scale tanneries. Appointment of local staff and of the consultant, and
adoption of a first year action plan for the program, in a manner satisfac-
tory to the Association, would be a condition of disbursement for this compo-
nent (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). By
January 1 of each subsequent year, the ILT would furnish to the Association
and thereafter carry out an annual work plan, taking into account the Asso-
ciation's comments thereon (Section 3.11(c) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment). A joint review of the program would be undertaken after 18 months
by the Ministry of Education, IDA and the ILT to assess program impact.
54.       Export Product Development Program.  A Light Industry and Handicraft
Export Development Program would be established within the Export Promotion
Bureau for: (a) consultancy services to assist exporters in developing, adapt-
ing and improving their products and supply base (about US$400,000 equivalent);
and (b) exporters' and manufacturers' participation in sales trips, fairs and
visits to exporters and producers in neighboring countries that successfully
export similar items (about US$400,000 equivalent). EPB intends to use
existing and a few additional specialized local staff to organize consultancy



- 18 -
and export promotion trips. Major promising product lines for focus would
include: leather and leather products; specialized textiles and garments;
cane and wood furniture; ceramics; bamboo, jute and other handicrafts. For
the purposes of implementing this component, the policies and procedures, and
a first year action plan would be furnished to the Association by January 31,
1981 for its concurrence. (Section 3.11(a) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment); and EPB would be required by January 1 of each year to furnish to the
Association and thereafter carry out a work plan taking into account the
Association's comments (Section 3.11(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Within these general guidelines and annual work plans, EPB could operate
flexibly, informing IDA when major changes in the program were made. EPB
would select and establish terms of reference and contractual conditions for
consultants, and would maintain separate accounts for this Program. GOB would
provide EPB with sufficient funds to cover the time lag between EPB's expen-
ditures and withdrawals from IDA.
55.       Rural Enterprise Development.  IRDP and 10 to 15 selected TCCAs
would channel credit and technical services to agro-related rural enterprises,
particularly beekeeping, goat rearing, pond fisheries, poultry and certain
agro-processing and other agro-related activities as mutually agreed by IDA
and IRDP. 1/ IRDP would supplement its rural enterprise department with about
four additional staff at headquarters; 35 TCCA rural enterprise supervisors
would be hired, trained, and deployed over a three-year period. An advisor
would assist IRDP in launching the program, making detailed plans for imple-
mentation, and installing a simple monitoring and evaluation system. TCCA
supervisors would promote establishment of cooperatives of landless and mar-
ginal farmers, and women in these rural enterprise lines, provide these
cooperatives with technical services, and prepare loan applications and
consolidate them for presentation to one of the PCIs. The TCCA and the
village-level cooperative societies would each receive a spread of 3% for
preparing loan applications, distributing Sub-loans to cooperatives, super-
vising utilization, and collecting repayments. Prior to disbursements for
this component, IRDP staff and the consultant would be hired and a first year
action plan adopted, in a manner satisfactory to the Association (Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(c) of the Development Credit Agreement); thereafter, IRDP would,
by January 1 of each year, furnish to the Association and thereafter carry
out an annual work plan, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon (Section 3.11(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
56.       Study of Rural Enterprise Development.  The credit would help
finance technical assistance for a study by the Planning Commission on poten-
tial and needed institutional services in rural enterprise development, to
provide a basis for GOB's rural enterprise strategy. The Planning Commission
would conduct detailed studies in about 35 thanas, beginning with 10 the first
1/   Tentative selection of an initial 10 TCCAs has been made from a list of
Category "A", or most successful TCCAs; and final selection of these and
any additional TCCAs would be made and incorporated in IRDP's first year
action plan after verifying that ecological conditions are appropriate
for the activities selected, that there is considerable local tradition
in the activity selected, and that a high concentration of the target
group of landless and marginal farm families exists in the area.



- 19 -
year, to formulate area development plans to identify and promote feasible
rural industries; the study would compare benefits of alternative processing
technologies, and prepare project profiles, manufacturing guides and technical
service packages for identified subprojects. Some area development schemes,
profiles and guides would be available after the first year; after 18 months,
a report would be issued with recommendations on public and private institu-
tional services for the rural enterprise sector. Estimated costs of the study
would be about US$0.8 million equivalent of which about US$0.4 million would
be for consultants. The Planning Commission and IDA would agree on terms of
reference and selection of consultants for the proposed study (Sections 3.04
and 3.10 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Credit Administration
57.       Costs and Financing.  The total project cost (net of taxes and
duties) is estimated at US$50.0 million equivalent, including US$42.86 mil-
lion for investment in SCIs, US$6.67 for services and equipment, and US$0.47
unallocated. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$20.56 million
or about 41% of total project cost. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 26.7
million (US$35.0 million equivalent) would finance the full foreign exchange
cost of the project and about US$14.44 million equivalent of the local costs,
or about 70% of total project costs, which provides for a reasonable contribu-
tion by investors in Sub-loan projects. IDA would provide US$30 million for
the Sub-loan component and US$5 million for technical services. Beneficiaries
of Sub-loans and technical services would provide US$13.08 million equivalent
in payments, and as equity on their own investments. The Government would
contribute the remaining US$1.92 million equivalent.
58.       Lending Arrangements.  The US$30 million Sub-loan component would
be onlent by the Government to Bangladesh Bank via a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
at 2-5% interest rate per annum depending on Sub-loan size for up to 15 years,
including upto 5 years grace, with GOB to bear the foreign exchange risk
(Sections 3.03, 6.01(c), and Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Bangladesh Bank would provide refinance to PCIs which have entered into
participation agreements with Bangladesh Bank. Differential spreads to PCIs
would be applied as follows:
Direct Subloan (in Taka 100,000)
Up    5 to  15 to    All Loans
to 5    15     30   Through TCCA
GOB Charge to BB                      3%     4%      5%         2%
BB Spread                             2%     2%      2%         1%
PCI Spread (without guarantee)        8%      7%     6%         4%
TCCA Spread                           -      -       -          3%
Village Cooperative Spread            -       -      -          3%
Total                             13%    13%    1.3%       13%
An additional 1% fee on the guaranteed portion would be paid by banks partici-
pating in a voluntary credit guarantee scheme with the guarantee fee to be
deducted from their spread. PCIs would make Sub-loans to ultimate borrowers
at not less than 13% per annum for periods of up to 12 years, depending on



- 20 -
type of loan, including up to 3 years grace; terms and interest rates may be
amended from time to time by mutual agreement between GOB and IDA (Schedule 3,
paragraph H of the Development Credit Agreement). As in the First and Second
Small-Scale Industry Credits (Credits 353-BD and 825-BD), no commitment fee
would be charged, due to the multiple institutions involved and the small-scale
nature of the subborrowers.
59.       Procurement.  As in the previous project, Bangladesh Bank would
establish procedures with PCIs to ensure that (i) the goods procured locally
for the projects to be refinanced under the SCI refinance facility would be
purchased at reasonable and competitive prices; and (ii) the contracts for
goods procured outside of Bangladesh and estimated to cost US$6,000 or more
per item or $30,000 per contract would be let through international shopping
procedures on the basis of at least three price quotations (Section 2.04(a) of
the Development Credit Agreement). The SCI Unit of Bangladesh Bank, in its
review of loans above Tk 500,000 would also review this aspect of the procure-
ment. PCIs would be required to maintain records of the method of procurement.
Procurement for the technical services component would be in accordance with
Government procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association (Section
2.04(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Project Approval.  In view of the large number and relatively
small size of Sub-loans, simplified review and approval procedures would be
used. For refinancing Sub-loans of up to Tk 500,000 (estimated to account for
about 60% of total projects by amount), the SCI Unit of Bangladesh Bank would
rapidly review the eligibility of the subproject, its financial viability and
the adequacy of proposed Sub-loan terms. Periodically, the SCI Unit would
evaluate sample reports for smaller approved Sub-loans to check that appro-
priate appraisal standards were being maintained.  For Sub-loans of Tk 500,000
to Tk 1,500,000, Bangladesh Bank would certify to IDA that subprojects meet
eligibility criteria and are financially viable, and that Sub-loan terms are
appropriate. For Sub-loans above Tk 1,500,000, IDA's prior review and
approval would be required (Section 2.03(a) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment). Sample reports would be sent to IDA for Sub-loans below Tk 1,500,000.
61.       Disbursement.  All Sub-loan disbursements would be eligible for
refinancing by Bangladesh Bank for up to 100% of the total amount; IDA's
reimbursements would be limited to expenditures made by a Small-scale and
cottage industry subborrower not more than 120 days prior to IDA's receipt of
the request for reimbursement. IDA would disburse up to 70% of subproject
costs, for which the average foreign exchange content is estimated to be about
50%. In the case of the technical service component, IDA would disburse up to
a maximum of 70% overall for: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment
imported directly and for locally manufactured equipment purchased directly
from a factory; (b) 80% of expenditures for other equipment procured locally;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for consultants' services and overseas train-
ing; and (d) up to 90% for sales and exposure trips for exporters.



- 21 -
62.       Audit.  GOB and Bangladesh Bank would ensure that statements of
expenditure, together with supporting documentation for each fiscal year
were audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and not later than six
months following the end of each fiscal year, would furnish to IDA certified
copies of the audited financial statements and accounts (Section 4.01(c)
of the Development Credit Agreement).
63.       Bridge and Retroactive Financing.  The Sub-loan component of Credit
825-BD was fully committed by July 1980; IDA disbursements and L/C openings
represented 25% of these commitments (see paragraph 41 above). To enable
Janata and Sonali to continue sanctioning SCI Sub-loans, the Ministry of
Finance has allocated cash foreign exchange to permit continued commitments
from July 1, 1980 to credit effectiveness. The recommended amount of retro-
active financing of US$1.0 million would cover estimated disbursements by
Sonali and Janata up to the expected date of credit signing in October 1980
for subprojects meeting eligibility criteria (Schedule 1, para 4(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
Justification, Benefits, and Risks
64.       Project Benefits.  The proposed project would address constraints
hindering growth and productivity improvement in SCIs. Access to term credit
would be increased, with the IDA Credit representing a significant portion of
resources needed for SCI lending. It is anticipated that about 1,200 subproj-
ects would be financed with costs, including sponsor's equity, totaling about
Tk 665 million (US$42.9 million). Direct employment generated is projected
to be about 14,000 new full time jobs with fixed investment per job averaging
about US$2,000; in addition, earnings could be increased for roughly 10,000
workers in existing organized small industries. Also, credit and technical
services under the rural enterprise component could generate income supplements
for as many as 10,000 rural families, with eligibility criteria structured to
favor landless and marginal farmers. Credit, marketing and consulting serv-
ices to exporters could result in increased sales and earnings for as many
as 8,000 households engaged in handicrafts, which fall within participating
exporters' production networks. In handicrafts and rural enterprises, fixed
investment per job normally would fall well below US$500 equivalent. Market-
ing and technical components are expected to have a significant impact on
the growth and productivity of SCIs in priority subsectors, but benefits are
difficult to quantify. BSCIC's subcontracting exchange, subsector programs,
pilot projects and general promotion and extension services could cover roughly
2,000 firms over the three year implementation period. The Light Industry and
Handicraft Export Development Program would provide consultancy services and
sales and exposure trips for over 100 exporters, who in turn could organize
production and sales from some 8,000 decentralized SCI producers. The pro-
vision of common facilities and services for leather would cover about 200
tanneries and leather goods manufacturers, and yield increased foreign
exchange earnings. Monitoring and reporting systems have been designed to
measure coverage of these programs and provide indicators of their impact
on employment, earnings, and output in the targetted SCI segments.



- 22 -
65.       The project is designed to strengthen the institutions dealing with
SCIs, with the PCIs fully responsible for appraisal, loan processing, super-
vision and collections. The network of banks with capabilities in SCI term
lending would be expanded to include Agrani and BSB as well as Janata and
Sonali Banks. Training, differential spreads, and the credit guarantee
should help increase the ability and willingness of PCIs to make smaller
project-based loans, particularly from the branches. Through the SCI
Refinance Unit, Bangladesh Bank would build an organization with review
capabilities to channel funding for SCI. BSCIC's organization, staffing
and programs for organized small industries would be strengthened, parti-
cularly in the districts. The EPB program would permit this organization
to play a more active role in export promotion and supply development. The
capabilities of IRDP and selected TCCAs to promote selected agro-related
rural enterprises also would be improved. Several elements of the project
are structured to tap managerial and technical skills of private exporters
and manufacturers in helping meet SCI development objectives.
66.       Project Risks.  The risks inherent in the project are primarily
institutional: several project elements represent new or significantly ex-
panded activities for the implementing agencies. While Bangladesh Bank does
sizeable refinancing, the SCI Refinance Unit would represent its first formal
subproject review operation. However, Bangladesh Bank staff have chaired the
bi-monthly meetings of the review committee for the previous project; subproj-
ect review capabilities would be improved through training and consultancy.
The proposed project would involve a sizeable expansion of export promotion
and supply development activities by EPB, but this organization has esta-
blished a successful track record in these activities and is judged capable
of implementing the proposed component. The rural enterprise component is
designed to minimize the burden on IRDP; however, risks exist that the criti-
cal organization, training and monitoring functions would not be performed
according to the action program, that the selected TCCA would not serve as
effective conduits for services for rural enterprises, and that landless and
marginal farmers would not receive the full measure of intended benefits.
Consultancy services, clear eligibility criteria and frequent supervision
would be important for successful implementation of the component. Finally,
there are risks that BSCIC, still a weak institution, would not take the
necessary steps to improve its organization, staff and programs; however,
this would not impair the chances for successful implementation of the other
project components.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 23 -
68.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Annex III and
include the following:
(a) Conditions of effectiveness: (i) establishment of SCI
Refinance Unit in Bangladesh Bank (paragraph 45); (ii)
amendment of the existing Credit Guarantee Scheme of
Bangladesh Bank (paragraph 48); (iii) signing of a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association
between GOB and BB (paragraph 45); and (iv) signing of
participation agreements between Bangladesh Bank and at
least two PCIs (paragraph 45).
(b)  Conditions of disbursement for the Institute of Leather
Technology and the IRDP component:
(i) Adoption in a manner satisfactory to IDA of a first
year action plan, and hiring of required staff and
consultant for the Institute of Leather Technology
program (paragraph 53); and
(ii)  Adoption in a manner satisfactory to the Association
of a first year action plan for IRDP and hiring of
the required staff and consultant (paragraph 55).
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
August 25, 1980



- 24 -
ANNE I
Paer
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                   REPERENCE GROCS (WZICUTD A        SI
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. XM.)                                                    - MDT REC2NT ZITN       E)
TOTAL            144.C                                MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INC=
AGRICULTURAL      97.3              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA A PACIFIC             ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0         60.0      90.0              197.9                    894-.
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        ..        32.C/e   43.0                166.0                    842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     53.2        68.1      84.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1          7.6       10.4               20.8                     39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POpULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. RM.                      369.0       473.0     588.0               193.2                    376.1
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0       683.0     871.0               409.6                   2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.3        46.4      42.9                42.0                     40.4
15-64 YRS.                         52.5        51.0      54.4               55.0                      56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.2         2.6       2.7                 3.0                      3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4         2.5       2.7                 2.2                      2.4
URBAN                              3.9         6.5       6.9                 3.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0        50.0      46.0                37.4                     28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     25.0        25.0       17.6               14.6                      7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.1        3.2                2.6                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       345.6      903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       8.9                15.6                     39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0       101.0      89.0               101.4                    116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   85.0        85.0      75.0                92.4                    108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        43.0      36.0                49.8        -            60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0         9.0       6.4                12.0                     188
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     29.0        25.0      23.0                17.9                      5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0        40.0      47.0                50.8                     63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       153.0      139.0                ,.                      52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        45.0      53.0                30.2                     42.4
URBAN                               ..        13.0       15.0               66.0                     62.1
RURAL                               ..        47.0      55.0                20.0                     29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0        5.0               17.7                     52.8
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0                71.3                     71.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                      42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..      8430.0/c  9260.0              6322.7                   4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     79850.0O  42080.0              9459.0                   2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               ..      6610.0/d  5490.0              1758.4                    819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..               502.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                      28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              3.;L
RURAL                                           3 0/



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
-  MDST RECENT ESTIMATE )
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME                  MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC              ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 47.0         61.0      81.0                80.9                     98.6
MALE                  66.0        80.0      103.0               94.3                      99.2
FEMALE                26.0        42.0       58.0               66.7                      97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      23.0                26.6                     55.5
MALE                  14.0        30.0       33.0               34.8                     60.7
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       11.0                18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.0       1.0                 9.9                     13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..         49.0      55.0                41.1                     34.6
SECONDARY                            ..         26.0      24.0                20.5                     28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6/f         ..      26.0                40.9                     85.8
CONSUhPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-          0.4       0.4                 1.8                      9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                    25.8                    118.9
POPULATION                           ..          6.0      14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.4                 2.4                     39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..       5.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..                  ..                      4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0       23666.8   31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         16.5      17.0                29.4                     36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.8         85.9      74.0                70.5                     51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3          3.5      11.0                11.6                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0         34.6      34.4                37.9                     39.1
MALE                                 58.7         55.8      55.3                51.3                     48.5
FEMALE                               11.4         11.8      12.1                23.7                     29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3         1.4       1.4                 1.2                      1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.31k        16.71kh
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5/R        42.3/h    38.0/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/g         7.9/h     8./i.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9/g        19.6/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     139.0               107.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     111.0                86.5                    192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  ..                    182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      86.0                46.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      86.0                51.7                     33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averagea for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /R 1963-64; /h 1966-67; Li Estimated percent of national income.
April, 1980



- 26-                                                                ANNEX I
Peas 3
DEFINlITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORfS
Notu a:  Although the dana are drown fro .s....es g:-rea1y judged  h. moat -uth-itati.ne rd relia~ble,it should also ha noted that  lay may tot be iotar-
natIonalily coapartb.h..beaueofth.        It  o  sedodleed drfi.tinton  and oor...pts weed by diff-ot Lnotniss In niatgthe data.  Tbs data are, eons-
tholasa,. usefu  no  desca aba ordac  of aegnitude, indi-et  ursnde, and oharoo-eis  aertInaf  maLw  oiffeee..... beost  coun ..teSs...
The refes.c  groups  ..c II the aaae    -lunrysgtp of tha sobj act twuo.tey and (2) . owo-nry group nith satrahut highse atemega ioom. than tha .oantry group
of the  abjeotoucofr  (ancat for "apitalSurplu  Oil Sportsra" goep abets "Midl    -on  North Afrios ard Middle fast  is oho..an b..eus. of  tnroogar
eo-cnolaffinte)         onaafrro   ruL             aatesorgsaep lto  cihta at hosaio mesasI foe sach   i-d t-co  and shown oy whet.a
leas.t half of the -outrs t       aI oup  eeds    oethat Indiostor.  fio   b   uaaso   oorr   me   h  idoaa   eed   easeelh                                              tf
dana cod Is not u-ifo,s,  -suiot suer ha soaroised in IsletIng ca a  of o.  ne tadL_ator   snoameba.  Tbees  -e-ge era on.I.ly ueflloop Ieng the  au
of Ott ind-so  an a tics. ..o.. the country cod afarst.. groups.
LANff AiEd (ithuced aq.kn.)                                                                   roeaioerIiaoa      oustaiuuvtod ty namear 00 peantanog pOp-
.tota  - ToteS  oo ac   -as      pristng lead Allu ar. Slodi     tnssnacan.qafFr    rot -t-di-a  a-boo  ut_ ....erity Send.
Aaei-uItr-I - fanimaa  fagli-tculnua1  rae used campoa-ely or Pe-mnently                    Pouahoca   usn  Paew ..  .opuetie  di,vIded by n..ebs  of p-soticiog
faa ceopa, patue,   uea  wad hitohem gu-dan. 0   r  i  fallow; 1977 deto.                   oca  t  f I.a, grduate tome, pecotioa1 nuaae  an. .d ..ssistart curses.
Pouaio   a  Hopia  SaHd -total, uehe-  a- rural - Popu1PLitta   (.total
00   i   APIT   19$  - GISP par capita aatielte  aourn   saepio,cl-                         uh,adrnafived bythei   cptl                         ubro   optlbd
color  by  Leo  owerIon method  eWold SeobtAnle  (76-75tbasIs); 19hi,                         available in pubhia etd private' .en.a  so.d apsailic-d hospital ced cc-
1sYo, and 1970 dote.                                                                          hcbflintloti    etee      H..wpitals see sstahlishmates pcemaroely stapled
COIOT CNOlSyTOS Pt CFIT  -  nnul coaaanio  ofcomrroll anag  (cal         y,at least on  physioiao.  Eatablishmcts paoviding priowipally oustodia1
aNdRG  CiONSUMTIOa.     CPT peroeu  ..atre   ga   ...d  uptio-,uL Ia ad  co gema  elan-        cea  ar  at tcluded.  rural hospitals. h-w-a, include healt'h ead sdioal
lig.il.,                  n-1-I d          th.-l .1. ~~~~cotrsoa  pemaselyanffed byi a physicist fbut by s medIca  asaaa,,
triccyf Sc hilogr_m  of coal eqivalent pee capita; 19Sf. 19ff, uod 1978                         ussmidaite, etc.) ohiob oferinPstint  oadatiaa sad provide
d                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~limited rang  of nedioa1 f-ilitia.   Po  stnte.tira1 purposes urbanbs
nce  ocud  Nb   ricialgeerl  n  speiclie,dl hoptea  adrral
POPfLATIOt 0.1 VI7TAL STATISTICS                                                                         i                .I                    il
TotalPouenori-er(ilnl- At of Joly 1; 1960, 1970, and 1979                                   Adisis carSopitel Bed - Total comber of.admissi... to ca discharges
dote.                                                                                       frc. hoepitela dliedad hy the ao thee of hed.
CUhac P             Itatc    (ec-  of Rtoal-iei  of urban to total population;
differe nt definaitino of orb. no arenny effect o-p-rbilfty of dens                     HOUSINGo
etna50uotrec; 1Sf,  970, ood 1979 dune.                                            Avase  Sire of Houshold fasn   a  hussd                   tonl   ra. n'el
.Poclaln .    watlc                                                                            A household  ..nsiata ofa gropf   indvdul  atho-hr   tIngqaters
Populat  ion Soyear 2000 - forst  poultt p        prc1 t cti... arc hesd on 19Sf            and thei ir salt meal.  A boaader or lodger may or nay net be ioolodrd in
toe oueirn by agreed eat and their aartltty andfrtility rates.                     the house.hold for  tatiatloal puposes..
Projectoc perasners fr moetitty rates comprise of three   . leel  ascot.       Average nubar of coonP        e  no- total, urhn. ad crl   -  vaag1oe
Ovg  life. oopctoy a  birth increas.ing with co...try's per c-pita  oot e.fproapreo i-u all urba,nd rorl occuied t-ocati-el
lev-1, end fial  lifa  .PI _aacoytsnbiltIng en 77.5 yeere.  The pars-                     d-Ilinga, respectively.  Po-liogs socludo non-permanet structures and
caenfor fertility eats a lea have three  .s.l  aesuolog daclin  io uIdupc  pacts.
fertility ...oordtag to loconc  lenI and part family platting Pera._-ce                 Worto        etLoity (warasot of dwcllinas) - total .urbe, cod -urd  -
Iuc  country Is ohon aesignad car of these nin  combiostion   of mortality                Cnnanta.ne1 dosliogs with IeLrtaioity to livig qoerters ac par-etags
en   onLy cr-de for prwjrctioo puapne.If tto1, urban, and eure1 d-eliagcres.psctively.
litwoccplation - In a nnatioe-y yopulatioo  there is ow groth since
the lit' 'aL, ia equal to the_death rate, and also theagsstrocterece.-    EDUCATION
neinsc.ne..eno .TIhis Is achievdco   after fertilityrca  dcclina to                     Adog utsd tocolset Rtio
th"I yloe -olve  Pt unit non roproduotioorn o   oh: en,,ho oona,tion                      PIrimr  ecoo    total, male  nad femal  - GIr..a totl1  ..ea. sedfml
of  weorplace  itoelf .o.tl. It, TheI stainrpoutii..rrst.P.at              s                ro   Iont  falaeIash rmaylvl     pecoetagos of respetv
oatiuered on the hbol, ofth  p           Ijatd cb-rcnsrietlo  of ate ypuPletioo             paimar~y nohoil-ogr popula.tions;nomall  ioclodrs ohildeon egod h-il
in th  yeao  000, and absrate of decine of fortility cute to relae                 ysaa her adjusted foe different lengths of primary education; for
san :leel                                                                               couotrihdesh.y  rah- tlia-bpp..t.  unth sa  eduction, anoi t may e....od 150 peroane
loroacicar  rnueio  i  cowho  -Th   oa  aetnrtinoy   oultIn           icasoapupilarhsworebv- h. official school age.
oiao has her  .r.obad.                                                                    Oeo         col-ttal,  mal  and tamale   Computed as ahvo.              ecndr
Focolooion bonito                                                 adutatioornquirsaat~~~~~~~~ leant fone years of approve  primary inatruotion;
Irl.  - Mtd-y-a  poyaILticn pcoaquaro kilooe.ner flghoea   fPIe..tdss goosed, vouiol   r ecetrino    otutic    o   o
tonal are.                                                                                  usnajlly of 12  o1  yearsof. as; crespondene corIs ar  generally
P? o.  k.clc. aeri-lt-Io lend - Conputad as ah.v. for  griceltoral lend                        Ialdsd.
-Otiy                                           .                                                aainlrrlnr   rreio   eadrf-\aetionel itoit-uton
Fou nifo  Ao  crcr    (ecn)-Childemo (0-lb y-era , wo-ing-age (13-inld tahta,adnia,oohe   rgeshih petsnep-
04Yean)  and 9.Iretird (160 yIr  and o-a) enporc-ooge   of eid-yeur popu-                    dently or an depeetnooo of stowndary  ioctitotiona.
loio ;6190, 07, d 1978 dea Ioo-rnr   ai  - priary, end cacoadary - Total stodeots enoldin
P. olo-h- booth Rat  (prcent)-%tona  - dAnal 1growth roaca of tote1 mid-                         primarJ;y wad Iscndtylvs dilb y  uhr  of .teah rt in  h.a
year popuhtloot for 19)50-hR  1960-70,..ad 1970-78.                                            cor-pording levsle.
_ouuitGoth Rea pI cet  -                 Arbn - .d1ne  grooth raadf uchen popu-         Adult literacy I.to  (poroon.t)- Literat  edoItm(able to end end -ift.)
lutiloc   fcc 1950-hO610 fO,   sod 1970-7.                                                      empernantage of Ltota  adolt population agedl  yours and -er.
Condo Sioth Ruta foot ahcws.and) - A-au? lice hieths per aho.....d af nid-yeer
yoynlooIon; 1960, 1970, end t97W  deta..coiono
Crd lrth Roa. (per thb.ue.nd) - A ...al deacha par thouneod of  id-yrsr,,: .a.ego  Ca.re (per thouan,                     owl n)-Passen ger cera cmpeisomoo
,paylation-;.r190., 1970, en,d 19.7W   aa                                                   caI nainglesthan right per.noo;  -ooldes umbulences, heaoaes sod
Tr.nt teRducin                 IIe-toag    oub    - o  duhtopuwomatailll heriillitary vehicle..
her norma  coprdutvpmidf ebeprooaporaeoaoii  for-                                         Rai   ervos(c   huad populotiorf     All typso of ..e.ei--r for redt
tilityratLon;uaue-1y  f inc-year  -coragerodiog i1990, 0970, and 1977.                      b,Roadca,sts t  gILea  puhli.-        huado   oolto;cco                     ni
Pull  P noine-Acc...twrs. Ana   thu d) AAaoa1nube  of  .c.sP_Oe                           Lendpciea    n  ooriesdtSn yous  hooaIsmio ofraIo seW
ofiy. birth-control dvire  under suepcs of noaton   family planing prgrwn.                    as   nefet  dt   oeeono   east            a  owe ho b onIsrbl  aiosmas
Family P eno-              (Pc (.e..eot of maried ewoni) - Percentoge of marrie Itifos                      t aoihd-  fiornig
bwe  o   hldheriog ego (15-Cf yearn) who uno bicth-ot-t-I drni-e tO               lvooIvIr  (errithoad III           aio.-T   eevaafo   rofutt
allmacldwoe  inmrag  group.                                                               g     Iolpublia per thoon.nd P'pol'tiw; scl dcs unlicese   %t ec -veo
FOIlOD A bDONURITION                                                                              oaore   n in - "     yearnohoo engiotra tin of         . steseS  offean
Ind..f F.d Frd,11,   ,:.I l   6171-11   -.L~%,I  I, -it. .n..I       Newopsper Cireouotion fer tbausand ePoetiao) - Show  thoI averag  .ircot
yrcdocoico of oll food tmditias19 Production Iaclod              . tedand feed  nod         li-ation  devoted primarilyIt rorig gersl. none   Inpis cocidered
ito   eedryn   ees    oodheotr  rmr   wd   eg  suicoae                             n  ho "daily" if itaproan esfnetmsweb
inated o  ongel wich or   dlble and contain ontrints (eg.coffee end                 Cinem  Aunnul Altredanos pee Capira on  Toa-Sss   ro  he aumbr of
toe era rocludod).  uggrogaca prodootton of oschcouotry  is hosed on        ickts sold duIng the yssr, including admissions to demo-in wias
-Icalavrge P-od-crpirwihn   91h 5,  90                   1n 97Wdet.                    end mobile unttt..
Po   aia  ucyo  ce       'Pe .oe.cet Iofrouiromonts ) - Computed from
one5v  quveleut ofot food mopplirs ovileblo  Ino   . trety per ccpita             LABOR FORCt
yet day.  Avoilobl1  sapplies cos.priso dontsit pro~duction, imports lets               Toy.to  Labor Fort  (thou...nds) -E tcoeically active   esn.  inclading
oynr..n. ..od obenge in Sc  kto  N. te  tuPpliooea-1ude  atma  feed, tedo                 amd foeen and unemployed bu I'ocuding hoemowivs    tdeta.  tc
qo..onitiroooeld So food prote-netg, and l.et.m  In dincribunion R. nquie-                Seiilo   ovriu    onra   ernncmaal;1960  197an
nooo  or  .stm-nd hI FAO h..srd 00 phyololgicol ...edn for norma  acti-                1978 Auto.
city wod heechco1     ienn   eniom          tte operwaur. body w-ightot, age             eae(prot ~~ - ymLolaborfIoa   ecetg fttL' labo  foc..
ecdar  duihtion ofIppoltl,ed oloig1  yrotfrws                                  t        urctum(ean)-ahrforeS   arfo   ooar.bote   n
hoonebod   avel  1950-5. 1970, ac 97  aa                                             ishing( as proctag   of tote1 labor foro; 1960, 1970'and 1978 fats.
Far criae  apylyof prteen(meam  oar "Y) - Prote in  ..neo oLf per capita          Inunry (eopaa) - Labor forte In  iaing.  nntoalt  mnfacteriog
ottnoply of food yer doy.  Net eopplyIof.fod Is deOlord ueaao.R-                        ad e1-trioity, water and gun as pe-oeteg  of totL.  lebor f-ro; 1960,
quiren -t for all conties aetbliehad by 0000. provide for slimn                           1970 and 1979 date.
alloraoca o  0.0 gamo o  tato  protein per fey and 20 gross of aoma  nod          r.rIIia npn   pcat      oa,ml,and fomls-Prtioipettinn  or
FOlueyoni,  of olch      grmI   houd heanma  proein   Tu tad-                             activpity er Io racopotad atonal  eal,`nd femal  labor fwoce u
erdu apeioorLhat Lb_w  of 75 greso of totalPI prninad 23Sf_eofpoeou f                                       tota,el  end f_mla populctJoo of all egos raspetive1y;
eoolprotir. 05,   ...averge for the  Io,prpsd by FAO in the Third                      190  17. and195dt.Tb. et  err ILO'n psrticiyutioorat-riefl-otimo
0.001  Food Surey  0961-53, 1970 and 1977 data.                                            age-oem  oreoore of tho ypo,letion, sod long tima trend.  A tea esti-
7er coolta cronein noyply fron animall and polao - Protein supply of food do-        saeI    r   rnosinltucu
ricedfIonoimload IPI i  gec  e  day; 1901-5  190J.17   e                                 ormc  eednyRto-faf  of populatRon ando  19 mod 65 and over
blild (aeo  1-h)       _Joctll  Rote l.rrtboueand) - Ao..ul druths per thoneand to             ro ohm ntal. laborfoc.
eg   eoy14yo ,t  ohIlderIn in chi  eg  9roup; too most devolapingcon
Yro Mat   eIve   ee f  tebloo; 19.,19)0 end 1977 data.                          INOMEfO  DISTRBtUTION
oTHn                                                                                          Poe..nnage of private Ino.s. )borh So cah end hind) - Rmc-i-d by ciobent
LiEA  lootnna   it   ooo       nrw    0abtoImr   iltrmtig                                       5yret   icheOt 20 pret  poorest 20 pa-oan,  nod poorear hR pme.teo
atbrh   9.,1970 and 1970 fete.                                                      o   oubl
Iciant Moteliry Rte (per th--ed( - An,-o  deaths of ivf onto ander 000 yoac    rOVERTY TARGIET GOUOPS
OF30  e  conrd lice bitth.                                                        tniaa hooePvryTpneLvl(9   e   apt)-uban end rural 
Acent  Sofe W.co  ) corceor. of oorLatloin) - totol, urbe, and coral-Oslt   oeayicm o1                                         saetScc    ro   eo Abo h:iob    m,iotml
tcwnh- of FcyPls (tta.oce, and roce1) with .r..o....loooc..s tw car                           otrinto...llyedeqoetr dill piu.s.          nia   oao   equiremot  It not
oute _o1p1y (in-ld-  to-td serf.ao   a r             __o otratd bu. ootnatoIfodbe
ocrouhechatI fomIroPtectod brwhl.u. .p..nI..  cod  .eoitwywellu) e                     toiSmtod gotlanill Pover1ty lopone.Leve ulI(0   e   apt)-  ra   n   ue
yPceo..tegou of the ir coupo.tIII_PI poplaion.        neorboroepbl                           braroeIVepvry owrleloon-hdofavRag   e  ou pita
fountin or ondpoot booted ow  rora tLan 200 onc  fromboh.o.  may be                          peoolioc   f the country.  fban leve  In depond from  the oarel
iotdacaId aublg ohnthIc . _esnble eccou  ofrhec h-oo.  In rural eraIee.i..a   unn   o   iao   oto    lia   nohoaes
r  -1nnbl  -cos  old imyly  hthe  rho hooswife or  ..mio-nIf the house.hold             Ellt-1 eted      j.      lfr  ihr-1f  iigi    b
do non ho-aSo spend a dilp-roy-io...te yarn of the duF in  _eching the                                Pouai hlwArlt  Poery  ntneLeel(ILcnt  -urban -1
-S-ce  u   oonegwo   h Iit -c-n..c tOotyorlt ionu.  foc..ea dlu-                                                   Ecoomi  and SocialD Dta liinio
ponl oyincloa  hecoleclo   ad_disp-nel, dLlic  c IcLonropc                                                        Eoonoeio olynie and PrIooLoec lepurtmant
ofbn    _ococ   n   -uroweL          b  tnr-h  . Irn  nyn--v or cheonoI                                                                    April, 18
yin pelili-  -d oimilacioaluln



- 27 -
-ANNEX I
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONMIC nDICATORS
Population:                      89.5 million (July 1980)
GNP Per Capita:                  US$90 (FY80)
Amount              Average Annual Increase (S)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
(million US$            (in constant FY75 prices)                  (in current prices)
Indicator                               in current prices)
FY79               nY60-70   nY70-75   nY75-80   FY60          FY70        FY75       FYso /a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /b                       9,512.5                 4.0        -0.6        6.3    100.0       100.0      100.0       100.0
Agriculture /b                                5,174.0                 3.1       -1.3         4.3      59.9       56.9       63.6       51.9
Industry /b                                   1,170.2                 7.9       -3.2         8.9       7.7        9.6        8.6       12.5
Services 7b                                  3,168.3                  4.9        3.3         6.6     30.1        30.0       25.0       28.8
Consumption                                     9,187.5                 4.4        -0.7        6.7      92.4       92.8      100.0       102.1
Gross investment                                1,330.0                10.9      -10.9        13.5       6.9       11.3         7.0       15.0
Exports of goods & ufs                            603.0                 0.8      -11.7         4.3      10.0        8.3         3.1        7.1
Imports of goods & nfs                          1,603.0                 8.8      -12.0        14.4       9.3       12.5       10.1       24.3
Gross national savings                            465.0                26.5      -17.7         ...       0.9        6.1         0.9       -0.4
Composition of Marchandise Trade (X)
(in current prices)
F73         FY75       FY79      FY8o
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                               603.0                                                100.0       100.0      100.0    100.0
Primary                                         217.0                                                 41.9        31.4       36.0      30.1
Manufactures                                    386.0                                                 58.1        68.6       64.0      69.9
Merchandise imports                             1,603.0                                                100.0       100.0       100.0    100.0
Food                                            250.0                                                 44.1        42.2       15.6      29.5
Petroleum                                       1 186.0                                                3.2        11.1       11.6      17.6
Machinery & equipment                           382.0                                                 13.8         9.6       23.8      25.8
Other                                           785.0                                                 38.9        37.1       49.0      27.1
FY74         FY75         FY76          FY77         FY78          FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator,
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                    7.9661       8.8759       14.8521      15.4667      15.1215       15.2193
Export price index                                         104.6        132.9         108.7        117.7         136.7        168.9
Import price index                                         156.9        215.4         195.8        189.1         180.2        214.2
Terms of trade index                                        66.7          61.7         55.5         62.2          75.8         78.9
As 2 GDP
(at current pricas)
FY73         FY75         FY77          FY79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                           5.0          5.4          9.5          10.3
Current expenditure                                                       6.5          4.5          7.8           7.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                              -1.5          +0.9         +1.7          +2.6
Capital expenditure                                                       8.8          3.1           9.8         11.4
Foreign financing                                                         7.1          2.4          7.8           8.5
1960-70       1970-75        1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                                                           4.2           -0.7             5.7
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                                1.5           -3.3             3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (%)
/a At constant FY78 prices.
/b  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
- not available
- not applicable
May 1, 1980
ASADD



- 23 -
ANNEX I
P8ge 5
BAJtLADESH
tALA8N2 Of PAYMENTS. EXURNAL CAPITAL AND WIT
(million US$ Ln Curreot prices)
Actual                                                Prol cted
F74       PY75      P6          Y77      FY78       FY79      rFSo      FYS1       FY82      Fr83
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Not weports of goods 6 lervice.                           -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   -1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Exports of goods & services                              418.6     502.7      507.6     610.0      643.0     819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0    1276.0
Imports of goods & services                              984.3    1199.1    1355.0      950.3    1429.0    1684.0      2603.0    2641.0    3233.0    3547.0
Net transfers
Current sccount balance                                   -565.7    -696.4    -847.4    -340.3    -786.0    -865.0    -1610.0   .1718.0   -2057.0   -2271.0
Direct private investent                                     -          -         -         -         12.0      15.0        20.0      25.0      30.0       35.0
MLT loans (net)                                            274.4     508.2      502.9     246.0      399.0     465.4      861.5      950.0     995.0    1145.0
Grants & grant-like flows                                  347.0     395.6      244.5     229.7    386.1       495.2      504.5      810.0     950.0    1100.0
Other capital fln.  (net)                                    2.0   -35S.78      153.1   -216.1        14.0      13.4       88.0      -45.0      133.0      59.0
Change in rcesrves (- - inrease)                           -57.8      151.3     -53.1      80.7    -25.2   -124.0          136.0    -22.0    -71.0        -50.0
InternationsI reserves (end of period)                     115.0     266.3      213.2    293.9       268.7     393.0      257.0      279.0     350.0     400.0
Restrves as months of ixports of net year                   1.15       2.36      2.69      2.47       1.91      1.81        1.09      1.04       1.18      1.26
Fv74      FY75      FY76       FY77      FY78       FY79
GROSS DISBURSDMNTS
Official grents                                             347.0     395.6      244.5     229.7      386.1     495.2
Gross disburseamnts of MLT loans                            285.1     529.1      569.3     276.1      434.4     520.8
Concessional                                                201.5     468.0      538.9     244.7      399.8     500.3
Bilateral                                                   82.4     305.6      357.3     117.3      237.3     226.8
IDA                                                         51.0     112.5      128.2      86.1      88.2      152.5
other  ultilateral                                          68.1      49.9       53.4      41.3      74.3      121.0
Non-concessionul                                             83.7      61.2       30.5      31.5       34.5      20.4
Official export credits                                     40.6      45.3       16.5       4.2        1.7       3.3
IBRD                                                         -         -          _         -          _     
other multilateral                                           5.4       0.3        1.2       0.5        0.5       0.1
Privste                                                     37.7      15.6       12.8      26.8       32.3      17.0
EXtERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding end disbursed (end of period)              490.6    1359.2    1806.5    2068.1    2581.8    3005.1
Official                                                   383.3    1240.9    1701.8    1951.8    2442.3    2856.4
I8RD                                                        -        54.9       54.9      54.9      54.9       54.9
IDA                                                       105.6     255.3      379.8     465.9     554.2    706.7
other                                                     277.7     930.7    1267.1   1431.0   1833.3    2094.8
Private                                                    107.3     118.3      104.7     116.3      139.4     148.7
Undisbursed Debt                                            590.2    1033.2      952.7    1011.0   1316.2    1647.5
DEST SERYICE
Total debt  yrvic pyments                                    18.0       31.0      88.3      58.5       67.4      95.4
Interest                                                     7.3      10.1       21.9      28.4       32.1      40.1
psymnts as % exports                                          4.3        6.2      17.4       9.6       10.5      11.6
Peymnts as 2 GNP                                              0.2        0.3       1.3       0.9        0.9       1.2
Averae interest rate on  w loans (T)                          3.2        2.0       1.7        1.6       1.5       1.7
Official                                                     2.9        2.0       1.6       1.5        1.4       1.6
Private                                                      4.6        2.3       7.8       6.4        6.2       6.1
Average meturity of nw loans (yearn)                         25.7       35.5      41.7      40.1       37.8      34.7
official                                                    28.3      35.8       42.2      40.8       38.1      35.1
Private                                                     13.4       15.2      11.3      11.0        9.5      14.8
BANr GROUP EXPOSURE (7,)
IBRD DOD/ total DOD                                                    4.0        3.0        2.6       2.1        1.8
IBRD disbursoments/total gross disburs_nts
DBRD debt service/total debt service                         -          -         1.8        5.6       5.0        4.0
IA DOD /total DOD                                            21.5      18.7      21.0       22.5      21.4       23.5
IDA disbur.nts/total gross disbursements                     17.8      21.2      22.5       31.1      20.3       29.2
IDA debt service/total debt- ervice                           1.1       3.2       2.4        5.2       5.6        4.6
As % of Debt Ctstanding
at End of FY79
TERM STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (T)
Maturities due within 5 years                                                       12.0
Maturities du. within 10 years                                                      32.7
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interst due within firse y ear                                                       1.7
May 1, 1980
ASADD



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1980)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank     IDA   disbursed
One loan and 15 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    536.98       -
340    1972   Bangladesh   Chandpur Irrigation II
(replaces Credit No.
184-PAK of 1970)                      13.00      0.02
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      1.40
343    1972   Bangladesh   Telecommunications (re-
places part of Credit
No. 145-PAK of 1969)                   7.30      0.03
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                       -         21.00      3.22
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      4.01
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                                7.50     3.64
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                     20.00      7.93
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00    14.63
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.00      7.26
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    17.67
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00    12.02
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00      6.94
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.50      2.47
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00    11.43
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.00      7.75
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                          US$ million /a
Credit                                                                         Un-
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  disbursed
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                  -       16.00   13.57
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -       21.00   17.85
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research             -       10.00    7.83
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II          -        5.00    3.45
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                               -      21.00   16.37
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II               -       25.00   23.74
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small Scale Industry II            -        7.00    6.58
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research              -        6.00    5.24
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control         -       19.00   17.04
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                -       75.00    3.78
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III           -       10.00    9.69
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -        6.00    5.84
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                -      25.00   24.90
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family
Health II                      -      32.00   32.00
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00   27.93
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00   20.75
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                 -       25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                   -       25.00   25.00
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                        -       10.00   10.00 /b
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII               -       50.00   38.19
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                     -       37.00   37.00 /b
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II         -      20.00   20.00 /b
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  -      29.00   29.00 /b
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                  -       20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation             -      11.00   11.00 /b
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                 -      25.00   25.00 lb
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -      40.00   40.00 /b
Total,                                                      54.9  1,451.28  595.28
of which has been repaid                                   0.0      0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,450.88
Total undisbursed                                            0.0    595.28  595.28
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
lb   Not effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at July 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding          Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           buildings
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.37    1.57
1980      IPDC                            DFC                0       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.42    2.62
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales 0           0        0
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.42    2.62
Total undisbursed                                            6.50    1.16    1.81
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: July 31, 1980
Project is completed except for arrival of some maintenance equip-
ment expected shortly.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980
There has been some improvement in the Bangladesh Agricultural De-
velopment Corporation (BADC) component; processing equipment is being installed,
and all of the revised program of civil works and land development with the
exception of the recently agreed 8,000 tons of additional storage has been
completed. BADC will undertake the construction of these stores on a priority
basis for completion by December 31, 1980. The Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) and Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) components are behind
schedule due to insufficient budgetary release of funds. The main positive
aspect of the project continues to be the success of the contract grower
scheme. Wheat seed sales remain good, but paddy seed sales are well below
appraisal targets. The main problem preventing increased paddy sales are
poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved varieties for multi-
plication. Marketing consultants have completed their report recommending
improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certification
Agency continues to be weak, however, and an intensive training programme is
currently under preparation. Future propsects have improved as a result of
GOB's recent strong commitments to stimulate foodgrain production and support
intensive seed production efforts. Closing date at present is September 1980
and extension to June 30, 1981 would be decided once 1980/81 ADP provisions
are known for SCA and BRRI.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project civil works continue to make progress and are expected
to be completed within six months of schedule. Poor quality work is being
remedied by contractors at no cost to the project. Slow delivery of primary
pumps has delayed installation. Sluice gates and accessories are in process
of delivery. About 735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season,
irrigating about 30,000 acres. The extension and cooperatives components
of the project are short of staff which is slowing development.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is now making adequate progress having been behind
schedule due to initial delays in hiring project consultants, and more
recently due to shortages of local Taka and a payment dispute with the con-
tractors. The payment dispute was settled in January 1980 and works have
resumed. Sluice gates and primary pumps are being delivered. Budgetary
allocation for FY81 is only half of what is needed and a revised allocation
is needed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project:  US$16.0 Million Credit of
June 3 1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Project progress continues to improve after a difficult start. The
increasing production and income levels among project farmers are now becoming
visible. Irrigation equipment and agricultural input supplies are now being
provided on a reliable basis. Field level management appears effective but
headquarters management still requires strengthening. The rural works program
is making good physical progress and is having a significant impact on project
area families. However, supervision of contractors work and maintenance of
completed works require improvement. The livestock, horticulture and exten-
sion components continue to make satisfactory progress. The fisheries com-
ponent had been making good progress, but pond excavation has slowed recently
and improved progress is required in registration of fisheries cooperatives,
assignment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable
for development.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
There has been progress in procurement of engines and pumps, tools
and equipment, office equipment and part of the transports. Sales of shallow
tubewells will be to both individuals and groups. The project has sold
its first phase of 2,050 pumpsets and procured its second phase of 8,450
pumpsets based on farmers' preference system. The construction of workshops
is proceeding with minor delays.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation Project: US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
This project is about 20 months behind schedule, but progress
has improved significantly. The construction of Feni Regulator, the heart of
the project, was further delayed by two months due to difficulties in driving
long sheetpiles. This problem, however, has been partially overcome and major
concrete work started in June 1980. To make up for delays, the contractor
plans to continue concrete placing through the monsoon season. Supporting
works to Feni Regulator construction, such as access roads, buildings, stores,
workshop at site and electricial system, are almost completed. The design of
Feni Regulator has been rechecked, resulting in certain changes which increase
safety of structure, saving in cost and time for sheetpile driving. Other
project components also progress well: contract for a large regulator was
awarded; gates and hoists for Feni Regulator have been ordered; tender
documents for the Cross Dam and ten regulators are near completion.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achieve-
ment of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation through-
out Northwest. Key problem remaining is the revision of Project Proforma (PP).
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute Project has been very successful in getting the project
farmers to use higher quantities of fertilizer, resulting in higher yields.
Partly as a result of this, raw jute stocks are high, and the price of deshi
(white) jute variety (70% of area) is low. Some jute farmers are switching
their jute area to rice production as was envisaged in the project. Higher
foodgrain production can be expected as a result. To maintain jute production
levels, further intensification of the production in the project area will be
necessary. Steps for ensuring such intensification were discussed and agreed
with GOB.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project actions are proceeding steadily: Batch I of construction
contracts have been awarded; for batch II, administrative approval has been
accorded and for batch III, PWD is preparing the estimates. Evaluation report
for purchase of pest control equipment has been finalized and consultant for
pest control has been selected. Consultant for the monitoring cell has not
yet been appointed. Disbursement claims have not been filed, although expen-
ditures have been incurred for civil works and project planning.
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Progress in the implementation of the technical aspects of Project
continues to be satisfactory. BARC headquarters building is under construction
and work has commenced on the civil works component of the three regional
research stations. Contracts for the provision of farm and laboratory equip-
ment have been finalized. Consultants on farm development and potato research
have been appointed but not for research monitoring. The National Research
Plan has been published and the recommendations of the BARC technical working
groups have resulted in the generation of 39 sub-projects to be financed under
the research grant scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students
to take up overseas Ph. D. course and nine senior scientific staff have
attended career development courses. No progress has been made in the MSC
training program.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
There has been insufficient budgetary planning and management of
project finances. In order to avoid substantial cost overruns, BARC and BARI
have developed closer liaison and a consultancy accounting firm will be
employed to ensure that future expenditures are properly planned and managed.
Cr. No. 864    Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June_30, 1984
Effectiveness had been delayed primarily due to delays by the Govern-
ment in approval of the project budget and staffing plan. In Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) five regulators are under construction and
some embankment work has been completed. Some delays have occurred due to
difficulties in land acquisition. In Brahmaputra Right Bank (BRE) construc-
tion is underway. Some components proposed within this subproject have been
rejected as too costly, and the Government has been requested to prepare
modified proposals. Periodic project progress reports required under the
project are not being received.
Cr. No. 890    Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1-979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Fisheries and engineering consultants have commenced field opera-
tions. A detailed Project Action Timetable has been prepared and approved
by IDA.
Cr. No. 955    Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date:
May 21, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Effectiveness was delayed due to slow progress in approval of the
project proforma. Delays have occurred in formalizing arrangements for CIDA
financing of consultants for the project. Nevertheless the consultants are
at work and have assisted in the preparation of reports on six subprojects.
Cr. No. 990    Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective due to delays in approval of
the project budget and the preparation of the legal opinion.
Cr. No. 1042   Mangrove Afforestation Project:  US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, providing a total of about US$190 million equivalent in addition to
the IDA credit. Site preparation work including the necessary dredging and
filling was completed on schedule. However, based on the soil analyses under-
taken by two specialist consulting firms, further preparation of the site was
undertaken to protect the plant against earthquake risks. Currently the
project is about 32 months behind schedule due primarily to the additional
site preparation and initial slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-
critical items and (b) planning for construction. Due to the need for addi-
tional site work, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing
was required. The required financing has now been obtained. The soil compac-
tion and foundation work has been completed and plant construction is now
progressing satisfactory. Some additional delays are being encountered due
to delays in the manufacture and delivery of some materials, but these delays
are still within the margin for contingencies provided in the schedule shown
at the time of IDA supplementary financing. The project is expected to start
production of urea in early calendar 1981.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of July 31, 1980, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has committed
about US$24.6 million from the credit, for 122 subprojects. Disbursements
were about US$17.3 million and Qualified Agreements to Reimburse letters
of credit (QAR) had been outstanding for US$2.4 million.
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been good progress in training commercial bank
staff, distributing circulars to commercial bank branches describing project
procedures, and advertising the availability of funds for small industry
loans. The project was fully committed by the commercial banks in July 1980.
Staff of the Small and Cottage Industries Corporation have begun preparation
of subsector and area studies for small industry promotion.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 866    Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
As of July 31, 1980 disbursements were about US$71.2 million and
QAR were outstanding for US$2.05 million.
Cr. No. 944    Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
As agreed, fertilizer prices have been increased by an average of
about 28%. A staffing plan and administrative authorizations have been
completed for the provision of staff for the secretariat of the fertilizer
coordinating committee. Credit funds had been fully committed, but due to
currency fluctuations some additional fertilizer can now be ordered.
Cr. No. 980    Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of July 31, 1980, QAR were outstanding for US$21.8 million and
US$11.8 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023   Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$29 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1983.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1032   Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project:  US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
This Credit has only recently been declared effective.
Cr. No. 1044   Second Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407    Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project finances completion of the construction of the Bangla-
desh Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building
of five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The BAU component is now about 85% complete. By the project closing date
(December 31, 1980), all civil works are expected to be completed except the
nonacademic buildings (gymnasium and auditorium) which may be completed in



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
three months time if adequate funds are allocated by the Government. The
fellowship program is nearly complete. Equipment of procurement is progress-
ing well. Civil works associated with the technical education component are
complete and the polytechnics are now operating.   About 75% of all equipment
has been procured, installed and is being used by students. No problems are
foreseen in procuring the remaining equipment before the closing date. Proj-
ect costs (in dollar terms) are close to appraisal estimates due to currency
devaluation. Most local cost overruns are caused by taxes imposed on imported
goods. Disbursement as of July 31, 1980 is $19.36 million (92% of the credit).
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances a variety of training institutions for agricul-
tural extension and rural development staff. Technical assistance is also
provided to assist in the improvement of the training programs. Implementa-
tion of the civil works associated with the training institutions is about 85%
complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured. The physical
aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the recruitment of
the consultants, who are to assist in conducting the studies and in improving
the training programs under the project, is delayed by about two years. This
is due largely to the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural
Training (NCRT) which is in charge of the educational aspects of the project.
To improve the effectiveness of the NCRT, IDA has agreed to hire under the
project local consultants who would assist the NCRT in performing its func-
tions. The appointment of these consultants is now being finalized.
Cr. No. 912    Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 31, 1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project has recently been declared effective after having met
the four conditions of effectiveness. The Project Implementation Unit manager
and architect are in post. All sites for project buildings have been made
available. The equipment and office furniture lists are under preparation and
master lists of Technical Training Center equipment are ready to be submitted
for IDA approval. Curricula in ten trades have been prepared at Technical
Training Center (TTC). Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job train-
ing have been concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project
development.
Cr. No. 1054   Fourth Education (Primary) Project:  US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Population Project
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year has improved; and the internal reorganization of the
Population Control and Family Planning Division (PCFPD), as recommended by
the management study, has been implemented. However, this reorganization will
not be fully effective in improving program implementation unless the PCFPD
is able to: (a) fill its large number of vacant technical, managerial and
supervisory positions; and (b) simplify its administrative, financial and
recruitment procedures. Actions are underway by the Government on both counts.
A program has been started for the retraining of field workers which should
improve their performance. While the pace and quality of construction of 80
Family Welfare Centers, built through community participation, has been encour-
aging, the progress on other buildings in the project has been slower than
expected. Due to the slow pace of construction, disbursement of the credit
has also shown less than expected improvements.  A one year extension of the
Closing Date will probably be required to complete the project and full dis-
bursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921    Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0
million; Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of master plan for the project. Project architects have been
appointed and design development and tender document preparation are under
way.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1981
All works under the project are now complete with the exception of
the Surma River Crossing Study where the consultants' final report is still
awaited. Arbitration on the Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in
progress. IDA has agreed to a request from the Government of Bangladesh for
an extension of the closing date of the credit to March 31, 1981 in order
that credit funds may be used to defray the cost of eligible components of
the settlement.
Cr. No 735     Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1981
The Credit became effective on March 13, 1978 three and a half
months behind the original schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels,
navigation aids and for hydrographic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessels



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
have already been prepared and most items agreed. All consultants' contracts
have now been signed and work is underway, after initial delays.
Cr. No 964      Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Closing Date June 30, 1984.
This Credit is not yet effective due to delays in approval of the
Project Proforma and in the appointment of consultants for supervision. Mean-
while preparation for project construction is proceeding well. Construction
equipment bids have been called and orders placed for most of the first phase
equipment. Contracts for the earthworks, bridges and culverts contracts are
expected to be placed in the near future, and it is expected that construction
will commence, as scheduled, at the beginning of the 1980/81 construction
season.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 343    First Telecommunications Project:  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has been completed and final disbursement requests
are being prepared.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date:  July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is behind schedule largely due to delays in procurement,
civil works, and reduced output of the domestic switching equipment factory,
combined with difficulties in ordering such equipment and in completing
local construction/installation works due to budgetary difficulties. About
one-third of the Credit not yet committed corresponds to national trunk and
international automatic switching equipment still to be procured. TTB and
Government have decided on the technique to be adopted for such equipment (not
manufactured locally) and corresponding commitment is to be made in 1980 for
delivery by mid-1982. A new ordinance for the Telegraph and Telephone Board
(TTB) was issued in February 1979 and the board was re-instated to function as
a "Government Board" effective from April 1979. Major institutional progress
is now being made: the regulations governing the functioning of the Board, its
powers and responsibilities and relations with the Government, have recently
been issued and a commercial accounting is being gradually introduced. The
absence of satisfactory accounts makes it difficult to assess the financial
positions of the beneficiary, although estimates indicate it may have to be
improved, in particular in consideration of TTB's present and future develop-
ment requirements. Following satisfactory progress in implementing agreed
improvements, the Closing Date was recently extended to June 30, 1983 to
provide time for delivery and subsequent installation of remaining exchange
equipment.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit
of April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Twenty-three subprojects have been approved for financing under
this credit thus committing the total amount of the credit. However, due
to the slow rate of commitments during the early years of the credit, a one
year extension of the Closing Date was necessary to provide time for comple-
tion of agreed subprojects. The subprojects financed are expected to have
a significant beneficial impact on strengthening IDA's lending program to
Bangladesh.
Cr. No. 872    Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Implementation of this project has begun, with 16 subprojects
totaling about $4.4 million having been approved. Seven further subprojects
totaling about $3 million have been approved in principle, and would be
expected to be committed within the next few months.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934    Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project: US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun
design work.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941    Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001   Second Chittagong Water Supply Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
THIRD SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Two years.
(b) The agency which prepared the project
GOB/IDA
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of first mission to consider the project
November 1978
(d) Departure of appraisal mission
February 25, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 2, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
January, 1980
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
(a) Review and agree with GOB on TORs for study by
Planning Commission of rural enterprise develop-
ment (paragraph 56);
(b) Review and agree with GOB/IRDP on selection of
TCCA and eligibility criteria for borrowers
(paragraph 55); and
(c) Review and agree with GOB and implementation
agencies on TORs for specialized consultants
(paragraphs 47, 50-56).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Review and agree with GOB and implementation
agencies on TORs for specialized consultants
(paragraphs 47, 50-56).
Section III:   Special Conditions
A.   Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of SCI Refinance unit (paragraph 45);
(b) Amendment of Bangladesh Bank's existing Credit
Guarantee Scheme (paragraph 48);
(c) Conclusion of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between GOB and Bangladesh Bank (paragraph
45);
(d) Conclusion of satisfactory participation agreements
between Bangladesh Bank and at least two PCIs (para-
graph 45).
B.   Conditions for Disbursement for ILT and IRDP Components
(a) Adoption of first year action plan in a manner satis-
factory to the Association and hiring required staff
and consultant for the ILT program (paragraph 53); and
(b) Adoption of first year action plan for IRDP satis-
factory to the Association and appointment of con-
sultant and staff required for project implementa-
tion (paragraph 55).






it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   m
'I H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 (rEalf
4-~~~~~~~'-
4-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
7
ckn     K            US~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7N
4     ft
7,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
K    0~~~~L



