OFFICIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1065 BD
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Small-Scale Industry Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated             ,, 1980


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  3A&ty 4    i,Abetween PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; D.finitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BB" means the Ba- ,ladesh Bank established and operating
under the laws of the Borrower;
(b) "SCI Refinanc. Unit" means the Small-Scale and Cottage
Industry Refinance Unit established pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "BSCIC" means the Bangladesh Small and Cottage Indus-
tries Corporation established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower;
(d) "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program of
the Borrower;
(e) "TCCA" means any Thana Central Cooperative Association
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(f) "Participating Credit Institution" means the Sonali
Bank, Janata Bank, Agrani Bank, and Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
or any other state or privately held credit institution estab-
lished or operating under the laws of the Borrower, which has
entered into a Participation Agreement with BB pursuant to Section
3.09 of this Agreement;


﻿-2-
(g) "Small-scale and cottage industry" means any enterprise,
privately or cooperatively owned, which after the granting of a
Sub-loan has fixed assets (excluding land and buildings) valued
at original cost of not more than Tk 2,500,000 and which is
engaged or intends to engage in manufacturing, repair, cargo
transport, processing, handicraft production or agro related
activities;
(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or propoced to be made
by a Participating Credit Institution in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and which is or is proposed to be
refinanced by the proceeds of the Credit;
(i) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by a Small-scale and cottage industry
utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and BB pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, as the said agreement may be amended from time to
time;
(k) "Participation Agreement" means any agreement entered
into between BB and any of the Participating Credit Institutions
pursuant to Section 3.09 of this Agreement, as said agreement may
be amended from time to time; and
(1) "Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twenty-six million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 26,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made): (i) in respect of Sub-loans under Part A of


﻿-3-
the Project; and (ii) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts B, C and D of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of Tk 1,500,000 equiv-
alent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of #he Credit or of
any prior Credit for such Investment Project.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures by a
Small-scale and cottage industry in respect of a Sub-loan subject
to the Association's approval if such expenditures shall have been
made more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received in respect of such
Sub-loan the application and information required by Section 2.03
(a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan,
more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit
Sub-loan the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b)
of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfac-
tory to the Association, together with (i) a description of the
Small-scale and cottage industry and an appraisal of the Invest-
ment Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the pro-
posed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule
of amortization thereof; and (iii) such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary def,;cription of the Small-
scale and.cottage industry and the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) the terrs and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization thereof.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods under the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be as follows:


﻿-4-
(a) under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
BB to establish procedures to ensure that: (1) goods procured
locally shall be purchased at reasonable and competitive prices,
due account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, quality and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor; and
(2) goods procured outside the Borrower's territory and estimated
to cost not less than the equivalent of $6,000 per item or $30,000
per contract shall be so procured through international shopping
on the basis of at least three price quotations; and
(b) under Parts B and C of the Project, goods shall be
procured in accordance with the procurement procedures of the
Borrower acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.05. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984.
or such later (late as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in eich year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing January 1, 1991, and ending July 1, 2030,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or
cause the Project to be carried cut, with due diligence and


﻿efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and industrial practices, and shall provide or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, staff, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out Parts A and
C (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause BB to establish and maintain an SCI Refinance Unit
with (i) an initial number of staff with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to BB and the Association, and (ii)
accounting procedures and a statement of policies and operating
procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) cause BB to provide such funds and staff as may be
required to meet its refinance and operational needs.
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend to BB such amounts as shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account under Category (1) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in'carrying out
Parts B, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall, as necessary,
employ or cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
under Part B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, contract documents and work and procurement
schedules for Parts B and C of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain ar cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable or cause to enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant.
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish or
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
lt, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause BB to:
(a) apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association in BB's review of an Investment Project appraisal by
a Participating Credit Institution for a Sub-loan to be refinanced
under the Project; and
(b) approve and refinance a Sub-loan on terms and conditions
agreed with the Association, which shall include those set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the existing Credit
Guarantee Scheme of BB to be amended to reflect the autonomous
appraisal responsibilities of the Participating Credit Institu-
tions, the tiering of guarantee coverage according to Sub-loan
size, the voluntary nature of such scheme and the automatic
eligibility of all Sub-loans for the benefits thereof.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause BB to enter into
a Participation Agreement with each Participating Credit Insti-
tution, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of
reference of the study to be carried out under Part D of the
Project are satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.11. For the purpose of carrying out Part B of
the Project the Borrower shall:
(a) cause the policies, operating procedures and first year
action plan of the Light Industry and Handicraft Export Develop-
ment Program referred to therein to be furnished to the Associa-
tion, for its concurrence, by January 31, 1981;
(b) cause BSCIC to furnish to the Association, for its
concurrence, by January 31, 1-981, and thereafter carry out, both a
first year action plan and a plan on its organization and training
requirements; and
(c) cause to be timely -prepared and furnished to the
Association, for its comments, an annual work plan in respect of
all the agencies referred to therein, and by January 1 of each
year cause such agencies to carry out said plan taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
,Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be maintained
(i) the accounts and financial statements of BB and of each of the
Participating Credit Institutions, in respect of Part A of the
Project -nd (ii) records and separate accounts adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures,


﻿-8-
in respect of Parts B, C and D of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the said
Parts of the Project, including, without limitation to any of the
above, with respect to Part A of the Project, local expenditures,
all expenditures (not exceeding Tk 500,000 per Sub-loan) on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expen-
diture and shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) cause an annual audit satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation to be made of the accounts and financial
statements of BB and of the separate accounts
referred to 'in Section 4.01 (a) above for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by independent
and qualified auditors;
(ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associ-
ation, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such
year:
(A) certified copies of the said accounts and
financial statements of BB and of the said
separate accounts for such year as so audited;
and
(B) the report of such audit by such auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested,
including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in
respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) above as to


﻿-9-
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure have been used for
the purpose for which they were provided;
and
(iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain or
cause to be taken out and maintained with responsible insurers, or
make or cause to be made other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. .For the purposes of Section 6,02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreeme*nt on in any Participation Agreement without the Associa-
tion's consent;
(b) the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972, shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived  so as, in the
judgment of the Association, to materially affect the carrying out
of the Project or the operations or financial condition of BB;
and
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BB (including the SCI Refinance Unit) or BSCIC, or for the
suspension of the operations of BB (including the SCI Refinance
Unit) or BSCIC.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01. of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 10 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the SCI Refinance Unit shall have been established in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement;
(b) the existing Credit Guarantee Scheme of BB shall have
been amended in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.08 of
this Agreement;
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been entered
into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this
Agreement; and
(d) Participation Agreements shall have been entered into by
BB with at least two Participating Credit Institutions in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of the parties thereto, and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation upon the Borrower and BB.
Section 6.03. The date            'T   /    is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Se   on 12.4 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on a date twenty years after the
date of this Agreement or on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic
of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                          BAHISAMPAD 886
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
6 145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By  (
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under            22,870,000       100% of BB's
Part A of the                              refinance
Project
(2) Equipment, vehicles         1,250,000       100% of foreign
and materials for                          expenditures; or
Part B of the                              100% of local
Project                                    expenditures
(ex-factory); or
80%
(3) Overseas training              50,000       100%
(4) Consultants'                1,850,000       100%
services
(5) Sales and exposure            310,000       90%
trips for exporters
(6) Unallocated                   370,000
TOTAL           26,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$1,000,000, may be made, in respect of Category 1, on account of
Sub-loans made by the Sonali Bank and the Janata Bank before that
date but after July 1, 1980;
(b) in respect of Part B (ii) of the Project, unless and
until the first year action plan for the program referred to
therein has been adopted in a manner satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and staff and the consultant required therefor have been
hired; and
(c) in respect of Part B (iv) of the Project, unless and
until IRDP's first year action plan has been adopted in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, and staff and the consul-
tant required therefor have been hired in addition to IRDP's
regular staff.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit


﻿- 15 -
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist in the development
of Small-scale and cottage industry in the Borrower's territory
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
A program to provide credit to Small-scale and cottage
industries by Participating Credit Institutions with refinance
by BB.
Part B:
Strengthening of managerial, technical, marketing and other
general and specific subsector services for Small-scale and
cottage industries through provision of funds, specialist ser-
vices, staff, training, equipment and facilities as required
to:
(i) improve BSCIC's extension services by implementing
sub-sector reorganization, a subcontracting exchange,
district-level extension programs and about 10 pilot
projects;
(ii) establish, under the Institute of Leather Technology,
a program to provide common facilities and technical
services to small- and medium-scale tanneries;
(iii) establish a Light Industry and Handicraft Export Devel-
opment Program, in the Export Promotion Bureau; and
(iv) assist the IRDP and selected TCCAs in promoting agro-
related activities.
Part C:
Strengthening of BB, Participating Credit Institutions and
Bangladesh Institute of Bank Management (BIBM) staff and opera-
tional systems through:
(i) development of BB operating procedures and training
of staff of SCI Refinance Unit;


﻿- 17 -
(ii) training of staff to upgrade Small-scale and cottage
industry appraisal and supervision capabilities of
Participating Credit Institutions; and
(iii) improvement of the Small-scale and cottage industry
training program of the BIBM.
Part D:
A study by the Borrower's Planning Commission to formulate
strategy, institutional arrangements and projects for promotion of
rural industries in the selected thanas.
Parts B, C and D of the Project may be carried out with the
assistance of consultants services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
A.   Eligible Investment Projects shall be those whic'd involve
the creation, expansion or balancing of financially viable
Small-scale and cottage industries (including the acquisition
of land, building, equipment and financing of contingencies
and permanent working capital therefor) which, except as the
Association may otherwise agree:
1.   Have fixed costs per job not exceeding Tk 50,000 with
the exception of cargo transport enterprises.
2.   Utilize raw materials and inputs of local origin or
involving prior local processing of not less than 60% of
the total value thereof, with the exception of:
(a) metal industries;
(b) cargo transport enterprises; and
(c) export industries, which need only to provide
evidence that they would be net foreign exchange
earners.
B.   Sub-loan Size
1.   Sub-loans of up to Tk 500,000, not to exceed 80% of
the costs of an Investment Project.
2.   Sub-loans above Tk 500,000, up to a maximum of
Tk 3,000,000 per Sub-loan, not to exceed 70% of the
costs of an Investment Project.
C.   Allocations - BB would ensure the following allocations of
the proceeds of the Credit for purposes of Part A of the
Project:
1.   A maximum of 60% for financing Investment Projects of
Small-scale and cottage industries with fixed assets
above Tk 1 million after a Sub-loan.
2.   Up to 15% for cargo transport; additional amounts would
be available subject to prior authorization by the
Association.


﻿- 19 -
3.   A minimum of US$1 million equivalent for Investment
Projects by exporters of handicraft and light industrial
products and related Small-scale and cottage industries.
4.   A minimum of US$1 million equivalent for Investment
Projects for rural enterprises through eligible TCCAs.
D.   Interest rates, charges and spreads for direct Sub-loans:
1.   Borrower's charge to BB:
-    Sub-loans of up to Tk 500,000                 3%
-    Sub-loans of Tk 500,001-Tk 1,500,000          4%
-    Sub-loans of Tk 1,500,001-Tk 3,000,000        5%
2.   BB spread - 2% for all direct Sub-loans.
3.   Spreads to Participating Credit Institutions (without
BB Credit Guarantee):
-    Sub-loans of up to Tk 500,000                 8%
-    Sub-loans of Tk. 500,001-Tk 1,500,000         7%
-    Sub-loans of Tk 1,500,001-Tk 3,000,000        6%
4.   Minimum on-lending rates to Small-scale and cottage
industries - 13%.
E.   Interest rates, charges and spreads for Sub-loans through
TCCA and Village Cooperative Societies:
1.   Borrower's charge to Bt                            2%
2.   BB Spread                                          1%
3.   Spread to Participating Credit
Institutions without BB Credit Guarantee           4%
4.   Spread to TCCA                                     3%
5.   Spread to Village Level Cooperative
Society/Specialized Cooperative                    3%


﻿- 20 -
6.   Minimum on-lending rate to Small-
scale and cottage industries                         13%
F.   Repayment periods will be as follows:
1.   By BB to Borrower - up to 15 years inclusive of up to 5
years grace.
2.   By Participating Credit Institutions to BB - up to 12
years inclusive of up to 3 years grace.*
3.   By Small-scale and cottage industries to Participating
Credit Institutions - up to 12 years inclusive of up to
3 years grace.*
G.   Foreign exchange risk - to be borne by Borrower.
H.   The terms for On-lending, Refinancing and Sub-loans above set
forth may be amended from time to time as mutually agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
*    In case of Sub-loans for working capital and cargo transport,
repayment periods to be up to 5 years only.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /   f4day of
198 C
FOR SECRETARY


