                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2719



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF-93591)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2.903 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          CLEAN AIR INSTITUTE (CAI)

                                      FOR A

       GEF SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT AND AIR QUALITY PROGRAM


                                December 20, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Sector
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                          Currency Unit = US$

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       [January 1 – December 31]


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL            Adaptable Program Loan
BRT            Bus Rapid Transit
CAI            Clean Air Institute
CAI-LAC        Clean Air Initiative for Latin American Cities
CO2            Carbon Dioxide
CPS            Country Partnership Strategy
FM             Financial Management
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GHG            Greenhouse Gas
ICR            Implementation Completion and Results Report
NMT            Non-motorized Transport
OP             Operation Policy
PD             Project Document
PDO            Project Development Objective
PIA            Project Implementing Agency
STAQ Program   GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Program
TDM            Travel Demand Management
TOR            Terms of Reference
VKT            Vehicle Kilometers of Travel
WRI            World Resources Institute




                      Vice President: Hasan Tuluy
                     Sector Director: Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                     Sector Manager: Aurelio Menéndez
                Project Team Leader: Anca Cristina Dumitrescu
                   ICR Team Leader: Anca Cristina Dumitrescu
                                               LATIN AMERICA

                     GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Program


                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 23
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 24
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 32
  Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 34
  Annex 5. Knowledge Platform Information…………………………………………..45
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
A. Basic Information
                                                                             LAC Regional
Country:                Latin America              Project Name:             Sustainable Transport
                                                                             and Air Quality Project
Project ID:             P096017                    L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-93591
ICR Date:               12/20/2013                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             CLEAN AIR
Lending Instrument:     APL                        Borrower:
                                                                             INSTITUTE
Original Total
                        USD 2.90M                  Disbursed Amount:         USD 2.86M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 2.86M
Environmental Category: B                          Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Clean Air Institute
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/08/2005        Effectiveness:          04/14/2009           06/25/2009
                                                                                     05/28/2009
Appraisal:            03/06/2008        Restructuring(s):
                                                                                     09/10/2012
Approval:             10/21/2008        Mid-term Review:        06/30/2011           10/12/2011
                                        Closing:                12/31/2012           06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                 Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                      Ratings
                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:                      Not Applicable
                           Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                  Not Applicable
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                   i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          Yes                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Public administration- Transportation                                 100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                          10                  10
Climate change                                                         60                  60
Environmental policies and institutions                                10                  10
Pollution management and environmental health                          20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           Hasan A. Tuluy                        Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez              Laura Tuck
Sector Manager:           Aurelio Menendez                      Jose Luis Irigoyen
Project Team Leader:      Anca Cristina Dumitrescu              Paul Procee
ICR Team Leader:          Anca Cristina Dumitrescu
ICR Primary Author:       Melanie Glass
                          Katya Kidba




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
Regional project development objectives will be: (1) to establish a network of local and
national government stakeholders, international organizations and private sector entities
to promote policies and actions leading towards more energy efficient and cleaner urban
transport systems in Latin American cities; (2) to assist cities to develop sustainable
urban transport strategies that integrate climate change and air quality components; and,
(3) to improve the capacity of cities to quantify the impacts of transport policies on
climate change and air pollution emissions.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                                   Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                      approval          Target         Completion or
                                                    documents)          Values         Target Years
                   Formal support and a work plan financed by different sources to coordinate
Indicator 1 :      activities at the regional level, involving local and national governments,
                   international organizations and private sector
                                                                                    Endorsement of the
                                                Formal support                      work plan by 34
Value              No formal support and a
                                                and a work plan                     entities, and
(quantitative or   work plan financed by
                                                financed by                         financial support
Qualitative)       different sources
                                                different sources                   contributed by 5 of
                                                                                    them.
Date achieved      09/25/2008                   06/25/2009                          06/30/2013
Comments           Target partially achieved: only 5 out of the 34 endorsements from network
(incl. %           members are accompanied by in-kind contributions, raising questions on the long
achievement)       term sustainability of CAI.
                   Cities with a strategy to reduce CO2 through sustainable transport strategies,
                   including regulatory and financial frameworks that foster sustainable transport
Indicator 2 :
                   systems at local
                   and national level
                                                Cities with a                       11 city case studies,
                   No city with a strategy to
Value                                           strategy to reduce                  reports and
                   reduce CO2 through
(quantitative or                                CO2 through                         guidelines were
                   sustainable transport
Qualitative)                                    sustainable                         produced to help
                   strategies
                                                transport strategies                reduce CO2
Date achieved      09/25/2008                   06/25/2009                          06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %      Target achieved (100%)
achievement)

                                                    iii
                 Better understanding of the local and global environmental impacts of different
Indicator 3 :
                 transport policy and technology strategies in cities
                                            Better
                                                                                 No associated
                                            understanding of
Value            No good understanding of                                        indicators or
                                            the local and
(quantitative or the local and global                                            targets; deficiencies
                                            global
Qualitative)     environmental impacts                                           in the selection of
                                            environmental
                                                                                 this indicator
                                            impacts
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Target could not be objectively measured.
achievement)
                 Cities applying assessment tools to quantify greenhouse gas and air quality
Indicator 4 :
                 impacts of select transport options
Value                                                                            More than 3 cities
                 No city applies            Cities applying
(quantitative or                                                                 applied the
                 assessment tools           assessment tools
Qualitative)                                                                     assessment tools
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved (100%)
achievement)
                 Availability and actual application of tools for local and national decision makers
Indicator 5 : and project developers to assess and compare transport policies and investments
                 in terms of climate and air quality benefits
                                                                                 Tool available
Value                                       Availability and                     through the CAI
                 No availability and actual
(quantitative or                            actual application                   Helpdesk, training,
                 application of tools
Qualitative)                                of tools                             technical assitance
                                                                                 and workshops
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         Target achieved (100%)
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                 Number of agreement letters from local and national governments, international
Indicator 1 :
                 organizations and private sector formally endorsing the program
Value
(quantitative or 0                          30                                34
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                        06/30/2013
Comments         Partially achieved: the number was exceeded, but only 5 of the 34 agreement


                                                  iv
(incl. %           letters came with financial or in-kind contributions.
achievement)
                   Amount of additional resources leveraged by the GEF Program
Indicator 2 :
                   through the CAI
Value
(quantitative or   0                          US$ 2,093,000                   US$ 2,200,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/25/2008                 06/25/2009                      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Number of staff working at CAI to manage the work plan
Value
(quantitative or   0                          4                               4
Qualitative)
Date achieved      09/25/2008                 06/25/2009                      06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved
achievement)
                 Number of case-studies, reports and guidelines on strategies to reduce C02 by
Indicator 4 :
                 sustainable urban transport program disseminated in the region
                                                                                 11 case studies,
                                                                                 reports and
Value
                                                                                 guidelines were
(quantitative or 0                          11
                                                                                 produced and
Qualitative)
                                                                                 disseminated by
                                                                                 CAI
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         100% achieved
achievement)
                 Number of trainees that have taken the sustainable transport,
Indicator 5 :
                 climate change and air quality courses offered by the program
Value
(quantitative or 0                          500                                  1,333
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                           06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         100% achieved
achievement)
                 Number of cities applying tools and methodologies available to assess transport
Indicator 6 : policies and investments in
                 terms of climate and air quality benefits at city and project level
                                                                                 Toolkit and
Value                                       Toolkit developed
                                                                                 methodologies
(quantitative or 0                          and applied in 3
                                                                                 applied in more
Qualitative)                                cities
                                                                                 than 3 cities
Date achieved 09/25/2008                    06/25/2009                           06/30/2013


                                                   v
Comments
(incl. %       100% achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                           Actual
       Date ISR
No.                            GEO                     IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                       (USD millions)
  1    10/02/2009        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.30
  2    05/21/2010    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.46
  3    02/08/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              1.08
                                                  Moderately
  4    07/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory                                     1.52
                                                Unsatisfactory
  5    12/05/2011    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             1.80
  6    06/20/2012    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    2.12
  7    10/19/2012    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    2.33
  8    03/01/2013    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    2.54
  9    06/23/2013    Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    2.90


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      To ensure immediate
                                                      effectiveness of the Grant
                                                      Agreement. Changes were:
                                                      modification of Section 5.01 of
 05/28/2009       N                            0.00   the GA; modification of
                                                      disbursement table;
                                                      modification of Section 5.04;
                                                      and addition of Section 5.05 to
                                                      establish on-demand TA.
                                                      Second level restructuring
                                                      allowing the extension of
 09/10/2012                MS      S           2.33
                                                      closing date and reallocation of
                                                      grant proceeds.




                                           vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(Brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
Introduction
1.      At the time of appraisal, the transport sector was responsible for more than 20
percent of the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions in Latin America, and was the fastest
growing emitting sector. The International Energy Agency projected that CO2 emissions
from vehicles would increase by a factor of 2.4 (or 140%): from about 4.6 gigatons in
2000 to 11.2 gigatons in 2050. The vast majority of this increase was expected to take
place in developing regions, especially in Latin America and Asia, as a result of increased
motorization and vehicle use.
2.       At the same time, Latin American cities were growing rapidly. Approximately
75% of Latin Americans lived in urban areas, and this was where most of the vehicle
kilometers of travel (VKT) occurred. Urban transport, therefore, represented a key sector
for long-run greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation efforts in Latin America. In addition,
cities in Latin America were expanding and sprawling rapidly as the mobility needs were
being primarily satisfied by a growing reliance on individual motor vehicles.
3.      The GEF Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Program (STAQ Program) was
proposed to reduce the rate of growth of GHG emissions from transport in Latin America
through the promotion of less energy intensive and cleaner modes of transport. The
US$79 million STAQ Program 1 was designed as a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan
(APL). It was divided into four projects – a regional umbrella project and three country
projects in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, respectively. The Regional Project and the
Country Projects were expected to contribute towards the development/adaption of
sustainable transport policies in selected cities and to support national policies to
significantly lower CO2 emissions in the long run and increase the person-trips in more
efficient transport modes.
4.      The Regional Project supported the goals of the overall STAQ Program by
ensuring (i) the expansion of the knowledge base in the region on climate change and
transport related issues; (ii) increased knowledge-sharing across countries and cities in
the entire Latin American Region; (iii) coordination and cooperation amongst GEF
implementing agencies, financing institutions, and other organizations engaged in
sustainable transport investments in the region; and (iv) policies and guidelines to
promote more energy efficient and climate friendly transport systems in the cities of the
region.
5.     Each of the Country Projects included three or four city-level sub-projects with
the aim of developing sustainable urban transport investments and reducing GHG
emissions by promoting investment in the following thematic windows: (i) Freight


1
    Including US$20.8 million of GEF funding



                                               1
Transport Management, (ii) Integration of Land Use, Transport and Environmental
Planning, (iii) Modal Shift to Public Transport, (iv) Non-motorized Transport (NMT),
and (v) Travel Demand Management (TDM). These sub-projects were expected to
provide valuable lessons to inform and develop appropriate policies at a national level.
With the support of the regional project, they were also expected to address the most
common barriers to sustainable urban transport practices at city and national level in
Latin America, including institutional, regulatory, financial, technical, and cultural
barriers.
6.       It was decided that the four projects would be evaluated as four separate projects,
as they have different loan agreements and task team leaders, as well as independent
timelines. The separate evaluation is also due to the following considerations: (i) these
operations have separate PADs; (ii) there are different Global Environmental Objectives
(GEOs) and results frameworks; (iii) the projects are implemented by different agencies,
(iv) the projects have different closing dates; and (v) the Implementation Completion and
Results Report (ICR) template is not appropriate for reporting on four separate
operations. Therefore, the focus of this ICR is the Regional Project, which is the first of
the four projects approved and completed. Since this ICR was prepared when the country
projects were still ongoing, no reporting on the results of the overall STAQ Program is
included. Separate ICRs will be prepared for each Country Project, which will provide
detailed descriptions of these projects and the respective results.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
7.      The main factor for the Bank’s involvement in the STAQ Program was to address
transport and environment issues in a coordinated way at the regional level and to ensure
that Latin American cities were better positioned to meet the growing demands posed by
the climate change agenda. At the time of appraisal, the link between the transport sector
and climate change mitigation was poorly understood at the local level, hence the need to
develop common working frameworks and methodologies and to generate platforms for
effective South-South exchange. The Bank’s presence in the transport sector across
various Latin American countries provided it with a strategic advantage to facilitate a
region-wide knowledge exchange process and ensure the involvement of governments,
private sector and other development agencies in the quest to mainstream climate change
in urban transport.
8.       Additionally, the World Bank was already actively involved in the Clean Air
Initiative for Latin American Cities (CAI-LAC). CAI-LAC was created in the late 1990s
as a network-based partnership managed by the World Bank, acting as its Technical
Secretariat, to engage Latin American stakeholders and facilitate a number of activities
including information exchange, capacity building, and knowledge creation on air quality
and transport issues. In 2003, the World Bank and CAI-LAC members decided to move
the Technical Secretariat away from the Bank. The idea to “spin-off” CAI as an
independently run network, through the STAQ Program, was at the heart of the original
discussions on Program design, and inspired in part by the successful experience of CAI-
Asia. Through a competitive process, launched in 2005, Breakthrough Technologies
Institute (BTI) was selected in April 2006 to host CAI, providing a platform for its
establishment, including the provision of administrative and financial services. CAI was
to execute the Regional Project for the STAQ Program based on this history and the fact


                                             2
that CAI was found to be the only non-profit organization, at that time, with regional
representation whose mandate included reducing greenhouse gas emissions and
improving air quality.
9.      Originally, the STAQ Program aimed to involve as many Latin American cities as
possible, creating synergies, visibility, and wider political support for sustainable
transport policies, and providing cross-fertilization for innovative solutions. Funding
under the Program was to be allocated through a region-wide competition, open to all
countries except Colombia, given that there was a separate GEF-funded project active in
the country at the time. However, for implementation simplicity reasons and to avoid an
overly complex and ambitious operation, the decision was eventually taken to limit
participation in the Program to 11 cities from three countries - Brazil, Argentina and
Mexico.
10.     The STAQ program was approved under the GEF III Strategic Priorities. It was
consistent with the programmatic goals of the GEF Operation Policy (OP) 11 and the
GEF Strategic Priority in the Climate Change focal area CC-6. GEF grants under OP11
aimed at promoting the implementation of low carbon technologies, modal shifts to less
polluting forms of transport, and interventions related to bus rapid transit systems, non-
motorized transport, traffic management, and land use planning. The STAQ Program was
expected to contribute to these goals by financing the incremental costs associated with
awareness generation, policy adjustment, regulatory initiatives, and climate friendly
technology options towards playing a crucial role in overcoming key barriers to the
adoption of climate friendly development in the urban transport sector.
Strategic Approach
11.     The STAQ Program was designed to directly link with ongoing or planned Bank
transport initiatives in cities within the three participating countries, thus leveraging
significant investments to attain global environmental benefits while ensuring the
attainment of other developmental goals. The products and processes of the Regional
Project were open to the direct participation of all interested Latin American cities,
allowing them access to lessons learned through the Program.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
12.   The Regional Project had three Global Environment Objectives 2 (GEO)/Project
Development Objectives (PDO):
      i.   To establish a network of local and national government stakeholders,
           international organizations and private sector entities to promote policies and
           actions leading towards more energy efficient and cleaner urban transport systems
           in Latin American cities;
     ii.   To assist cities to develop sustainable urban transport strategies that integrate
           climate change and air quality components; and



2
    In this document, the term GEO and PDO will be used interchangeably.



                                                     3
 iii.     To improve the capacity of cities to quantify the impacts of transport policies on
          climate change and air pollution emissions.
13.    Progress towards achievement of the GEO/PDOs was measured through a set of
five Project Outcome Indicators, used in turn as Intermediate Outcomes, and detailed
below:
a. Formal support and a work plan financed by different sources to coordinate activities
   at the regional level, involving local and national governments, international
   organizations, and the private sector.
b. Cities with a strategy to reduce CO2 through sustainable transport strategies,
   including regulatory and financial frameworks that foster sustainable transport
   systems at the local and national levels.
c. Better understanding of the local and global environmental impacts of different
   transport policy and technology strategies in cities.
d. Cities applying assessment tools to quantify GHG and air quality impacts of select
   transport options.
e. Availability and actual application of tools for local and national decision makers and
   project developers to assess and compare transport policies and investments in terms
   of climate and air quality benefits.
14.     Progress towards achievement of these Project Outcome Indicators/ Intermediate
Outcomes, was evaluated through a set of 6 Intermediate Outcome Indicators, also
detailed below:
a.     Number of agreement letters from local and national governments, international
      organizations and private sector formally endorsing the program;
b.      Amount of additional resources leveraged by the GEF Program through CAI;
c. Number of staff working at CAI to manage the work plan;
d. Number of case studies, reports and guidelines on strategies to reduce CO2 by
   sustainable urban transport program disseminated in the region;
e. Number of trainees that have taken the sustainable transport, climate change and air
   quality courses offered by the program;
f. Number of cities applying tools and methodologies available to assess transport
   policies and investments in terms of climate and air quality benefits at city and project
   level.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
15.       The PDO and the key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Original Components (as approved)
16.    The Regional Project carried out a coordinating function for the STAQ Program.
It provided general technical supervision and assistance. It also included standalone


                                              4
activities. In this way, it was expected to have an impact beyond the individual projects
and sub-projects and integrate other cities and countries. The Regional Project had the
following four components:
17.     Component 1: Evaluate methodologies to assess climate change, air quality
and other benefits of transport interventions (US$538,000). This component aimed at
gathering, assessing and enhancing existing methodologies and models to quantify GHG
and air quality impact of transport interventions. It included (i) the identification and
review of existing transport demand, emission and climate change assessment
methodologies and models, (ii) the evaluation of commonly used or promising
methodologies in cities, (iii) the identification of strengths and weaknesses of different
models at different scales, (iv) the organization of online forums and technical workshops
to disseminate and discuss models and methodologies with governments and stakeholders
at regional and city level, and (v) the compilation of regional scenarios with climate
change and air quality baselines, alternative transport scenarios, and potential GHG and
air quality benefits as a result of sustainable transport programs in Argentina, Brazil and
Mexico.
18.     Component 2: Strengthen the planning and implementation capacity of local
and national level institutions (US$811,000). The component aimed at assisting cities
and strengthening their capacity to maximize GHG benefits of investments and helping
them to implement comprehensive urban transport policies, which effectively also
address air quality and GHG concerns. It included (i) the delivery of hands-on assistance
and training to local staff and stakeholders on transport, air quality and climate related
topics, (ii) the creation and maintenance of a virtual network of regional trainers, experts
and institutions to deliver activities in Latin America in the long run, (iii) the compilation
and dissemination of a hands-on manual to develop sustainable transport strategies and
projects, and (iv) the taking on a clearinghouse function for strategies, options,
instruments and experiences to design and implement transport programs and projects
and their linkages to climate change and air quality.
19.     Component 3: Foster the development of regional national and local
comprehensive climate change, air quality, energy, transport and land use policies
(US$764,000) to build awareness and foster policy dialogue at the national and local
levels to promote more rational uses of motor vehicles and facilitate the introduction of
more fuel efficient and cleaner technologies. This included (i) the organization of high-
level annual conferences and workshops for targeted dialogues, (ii) the development of
hand-outs and easily accessible information for decision makers on key environmental
and climate change impacts of transport policies and possible measures to reduce
impacts, and (iii) the maintenance of a coordinated policy dialogue with the countries on
the implementation of national policies and economic incentives to promote sustainable
transport, energy efficiency, clean technologies and fuels and facilitate implementation of
local action plans.
20.     Component 4: Project implementation and STAQ Program monitoring and
support (US$790,000) to provide tailor made technical assistance to participating cities
and continuous and structured monitoring, supervision and evaluation of the program’s
impacts. This included (i) the overall management of the STAQ Program, (ii) technical
assistance to cities in project design, preparation, implementation, supervision and


                                              5
evaluation, (iii) timely policy and technical support when requested by participating
cities, (iv) gathering and processing of data and information from participating cities to
prepare baseline and progress in project implementation, (v) the preparation of data
monitoring tools for reporting and dissemination, (vi) the development of guidelines and
the proposal of policies to institutionalize indicators for periodic and public reporting at
city level, and (vii) training activities for indicators measurement, monitoring and
assessment.

1.5 Revised Components
21.    The project components were not revised.

1.6 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
22.     The Regional Project underwent an initial Amendment to the Grant Agreement in
June 2009. This Amendment: (i) modified Section 5.01 of the Grant Agreement, which
stated that the Agreement would not be effective until CAI executed a Cooperation
Agreement with one of the National Executing Agencies (NEAs) of the associated GEF
Country Projects, due to delays in the preparation of Country Projects which were
holding back the effectiveness of the Regional Project; (ii) modified the disbursement
table included in Section IV, Schedule 2 of the Grant Agreement; (iii) modified Section
5.04 to ensure that the Grant Agreement could become effective immediately; and (iv)
included Section 5.05 establishing a disbursement condition (for categories 3 and 4 of the
new disbursement table) linking said activities to the establishment of a cooperation
agreement between CAI and one of the respective NEAs.
23.     Additionally, in September 2012, the Regional Project underwent a Second Level
Restructuring with the objective of: (i) extending the closing date from December 31,
2012 to June 30, 2013; and (ii) reallocate grant proceeds as required. The extension to the
closing date was required due to: (a) substantial effectiveness delays of the Country
Projects, which started approximately 1 year later than the Regional Project, hence
enabling CAI to fulfill its coordination role vis-a-vis the Country Projects, and to provide
the required technical assistance; and (b) effectiveness delays of the Regional Project
itself, of approximately 6 months, shortening the implementation period for CAI’s
activities, specifically the establishment of a network of local and national government
stakeholders, international organizations and private sector entities. In terms of fund
reallocations, US$48,000 was reallocated from Categories 1 and 3 (Consultants Services)
to Categories 2 and 4 (Training and Operating Costs) to enable CAI to perform its
functions during the 6-month closing date extension period.

1.7 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)
24.   Under this operation, CAI’s mandate included providing services to 11 predefined
GEF cities, as well as to the 3 national executing agencies (NEAs) under the respective


                                             6
Country Projects. These were the formal primary beneficiary groups, as outlined in the
PAD. Additionally, and although not formally established in the PAD, it is important to
note that one of the primary beneficiaries of this operation was CAI itself, as
implementing agency. Most of the initial activities undertaken under this Regional
Project were directed towards the institutional set-up, staffing and training of CAI. As a
result, CAI is today a recognized institution in the realm of air quality and climate
change, providing policy advice and technical assistance to multiple countries, cities and
specialized institutions within the LAC region.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


25.    Soundness of background analysis. Project preparation was characterized by an
exhaustive consultative process, requiring substantial input from participating cities. That
allowed project proponents to identify and prioritize needs – for example: cities identified
on-demand technical assistance as a particularly valuable and critical resource enabling
the team to adequately reflect this needs assessment in the actual Regional Project design.
However, this consultative process was also extremely time-consuming, leading to delays
in actual project preparation and causing some of its elements to lose momentum (see
paragraph 28 below).
26.    Additionally, project preparation drew on lessons learnt from prior Bank
interventions in the region, including the need to approach the project holistically,
incorporating regional synergies, highlighting the importance of linking GEF projects
with existing and/or future investments, ensuring the participation of the local NGO
community, and giving priority to freight transport initiatives – all of which were
incorporated into the actual project design.
27.    Finally, the Bank’s involvement in the urban transport sector in a wide range of
Latin American countries provided the Bank with a unique cross-reference perspective,
allowing it to play a critical role in regional coordination, promoting the replication of
good practices, fostering south-south learning and drawing on lessons learnt and past
experience.
28.     Overall, project preparation proved to be much longer than expected, spanning
over a 4-year period. One critical factor explaining this delay, beyond those already
mentioned was the lack of certainty regarding the funding for the Regional Project, given
that the original allocation was much higher. That was later reduced due to lack of
availability of GEF funds.         This prolonged preparation phase had significant
repercussions, as original plans/ideas were no longer relevant in new contexts, and
needed to be redefined (especially true for training and methodology linked components).
29.    Assessment of Project Design. The STAQ Program was an innovative and
pioneering experience in the transport sector in Latin America, with ambitious objectives
and a highly integrated vision of the sustainable transport and climate change agenda.



                                                7
Specifically, in the case of the Regional Project, the objective of creating a self-funded
network, requiring the establishment of a new institution that would eventually become
self-sufficient, was extremely ambitious, particularly when moving forward with the
Regional Project activities required a strong and active implementation agency from
project on-start. The newly created CAI was expected to provide services to 3 NEAs and
11 GEF cities, requiring enormous efforts in terms of communication, information
exchange, coordination and monitoring, and making the Regional Project extremely labor
intensive. In practice and despite what is inferred in the PAD - whereby CAI was spun
off from the CAI-LAC network, created in 1998 by the World Bank and member cities to
improve air quality and combat climate change - the fact is that an operational
institutional framework did not exist prior to the launch of the STAQ Regional Program,
and there was no central body to serve as an implementation agency of this Regional
Project at effectiveness. That initial lack of an adequate institutional structure and
capacity to deal with project implementation inevitably led to delays in the initial phase
of implementation, with time being devoted initially to getting CAI up and running,
ensuring that the institution had the necessary staff and skills to act as an effective
implementing agency. Although the CAI-LAC initiative had existed and had been hosted
by the Bank, as an institute CAI had to play new roles and functions and get acquainted
with Bank’s operational rules and procedures. That required new staff to be trained and
become familiarized with such rules and procedures. As a result, the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) was not fully operational during the first phases of implementation, despite
the delays seen between project approval and effectiveness.
30.     In terms of the actual content of the Regional Project, the wide range of analytical
and outreach activities contemplated under the Grant Agreement were also over-
ambitious and led to a dispersion of efforts by CAI. The general impression was that CAI
intended to be active on too many fronts simultaneously, causing the Regional Project to
lose focus on core original activities at times. This multiplicity of small activities moving
in parallel not always led to a clear “multiplier effect” type impact but rather to a loss of
orientation during Regional Project implementation. For example, Component 2 of the
Regional Project had more than 65 activities including clinics, training workshops,
webinars, technical assistance, policy papers, conferences, strategies and action plans; the
other components had a similar plethora of activities (see Annex 1).
31.     Questions can also be raised in terms of the coordination mechanisms between the
Regional Project and the Country Projects, as established in project design. The PAD
highlights the “coordinating function” to be played by the Regional Project, in terms of
providing technical monitoring and supervision of Country Projects. However, the fact
that the latter were designed independently created a series of obstacles in ensuring that
CAI could effectively play its coordinating role. Moreover, some of the contractual
clauses included with the purpose of linking the Regional and Country Projects proved to
be cumbersome in practice. For example, the Regional Project originally included the
establishment of a Cooperation Agreement between CAI and one of the NEAs of the
associated Country Projects. As mentioned previously, this was later modified through an
amendment to the Grant Agreement, in order to enable effectiveness of the Regional
Project despite delays seen at Country Projects. Through the same amendment, the
Cooperation Agreement between CAI and one NEA was converted into a disbursement
condition for specific categories, eventually also leading to delays in disbursements. Most


                                             8
importantly, the actual gap in the timing of the Regional and Country Projects
respectively restricted CAI’s capacity to effectively play a coordinating role vis-a-vis the
Country Projects, even with the extension of the Regional Project closing date.
32.     Assessment of risks. Although the design of the STAQ Regional Program as an
APL was expected to allow the Regional and the Country Projects to move
independently, nothing was considered in terms of anticipating the difficulty in
coordinating Country Projects through CAI and the Regional Project, ensuring that CAI
could effectively play the coordinating, monitoring and supervision role assigned to it.
Additionally, since CAI was not an operational institution at the time of project initiation,
delays in terms of employing appropriate staff were also not anticipated as a potential
risk. Finally, the inherent risk related to establishing an entirely new network with no
existing resources was not adequately identified nor mitigated in the Regional Project risk
matrix.

2.3 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
33.     Initial delays in Regional Project implementation. The Regional Project was
approved by the Board in October 2008; the Grant Agreement was signed in January
2009, and the Project was only declared effective in June 2009. The delay between
approval and effectiveness is partly explained by problems with the effectiveness
conditions established in the Grant Agreement that had to be modified through an
Amendment to the Grant Agreement. However, even after the Project was formally
declared effective, delays in the actual start of activities and related disbursement were
also evidenced. The primary causes were the lack of an effective implementing agency at
the time of effectiveness, as mentioned previously; and the fact that it took time to create,
staff and train CAI to live up to its function as implementing agency. During the initial 2
years, the staff hired by CAI had limited experience in the administration and execution
of Bank financed sustainable transportation projects. Additionally, in the early stages of
project implementation there were difficulties in attracting and keeping qualified staff.
Frequent changes in key staff members were disruptive to project progress and only
resulted in further delays.
34.     Mid-term review and a resulting pick-up in the pace of Project
implementation. Only following the Project Mid-term Review (MTR), in October 2011,
implementation truly started to pick-up, as reflected in the upgrading of ISR ratings. By
2011 CAI had a solid team of qualified professionals, familiar with World Bank policies
and procedures. That was critical in explaining the turn in implementation pace towards
the final years of Regional Project execution. Additionally, the MTR resulted in the
establishment of an Action Plan with defined milestones, agreed upon with CAI, which
was also critical in moving implementation forward in these last years. The MTR also put
forward the need to extend the Regional Project closing date in order to enable CAI to
play the coordinating role assigned to it, vis-a-vis the Country Projects, and to make up
for the delays in the initial stages of implementation. The extension was expected to have
a considerable effect on the capacity of CAI to set up a financially self-sustainable
regional network.



                                                9
35.     Regional Project restructuring. Despite the objectives set forth by the project
restructuring (see paragraph 23), the 6 month extension did not fully help achieving them.
Firstly, Country Projects extended beyond the closing date of the Regional Project, not
enabling CAI to fulfill its role of coordinating body and provider of technical assistance,
monitoring and supervision support in the final stages of the country projects. This was
partly due to the depletion of Grant proceeds, which did not make possible an extension
beyond the granted 6 month period. Secondly, the Regional Project did not catch up with
its own initial delays, and thus the establishment of the regional network was only
partially achieved.
36.     Despite the overambitious and complex design, the Regional Project has had a
real contribution to sustainable transport policies in Latin American cities through the
large number of knowledge products created and disseminated by CAI. These are perhaps
the most important achievements of the Regional Project since they are increasingly used
in the World Bank’s dialogue and operations with client countries in Latin America.
Among the most important it is worth mentioning: “Incentive Structure in Transit
Concession Contracts”; and “Planning for BRT – Oriented Development”. Paragraphs 52
to 57 (Assessment of Outcomes) provide for additional key knowledge products linked to
the objectives, while Annexes 2 (Outputs by Component) and 5 (Knowledge Platform
Information) describe in detail the knowledge produced and disseminated. CAI also
developed an active website that can be visited at http://www.cleanairinstitute.org.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
37.     The ambitiousness and complexity of the Regional Project is also evidenced in the
design of the Result Framework (RF) and the selection of GEO/PDO indicators.
Specifically, the first regional objective: “to establish a network of local and national
government stakeholders, international organizations and private sector entities” proved
to be an overambitious goal given the lack of a pre-exiting institutional setup, the goal of
making it a self-funded network, and the Regional Project established time-frame. The
third outcome indicator - “better understanding of the local and global environmental
impacts of different transport policy and technology strategies in cities”- proved to be too
broad and vaguely worded, impeding a meaningful evaluation in terms of its compliance.
Additionally, in the design of the RF the selected outcome indicators are utilized, in turn,
as intermediate outcomes. This is conceptually misleading and is considered as a
deficiency in the design of the RF. In fact, the intermediate outcome indicators provide
more tangible targets, enabling a better assessment of whether progress was made in
achieving the Regional Project objectives. The above deficiencies in the design of
indicators and the RF should have been corrected as part of the project restructuring.
38.     Beyond the design of the RF, the Regional Project itself also included an M&E
component (Component 4). Although each Country Project had its own RF, the Regional
Project was envisioned to aggregate and evaluate data at Program level for wider policy
analysis and dissemination. In that sense, CAI was responsible for providing technical
assistance to Country Projects, monitoring and evaluating the regional level impacts, and
coordinating data gathering and monitoring of overall progress of the program at the
country and city levels. Originally, CAI was expected to prepare guidelines and a general
methodology for baseline assessments in GEF cities. However, this proved to be


                                            10
overambitious as well, with CAI directing its efforts to providing assistance to 4 cities in
the monitoring and evaluation process, including the establishment of a baseline. Other
expected outputs under this component were the definition of Program performance
indicators and the elaboration of semi-annual progress reports. However, even though
some baseline assessments were conducted, there was inconsistent follow up, due to the
existing disconnect in timing between the Regional and Country Projects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
39.    Safeguards. The STAQ Program as a whole was considered a Category B project
because the city specific sub-projects in the Country Projects included small pilot
investments, such as bikeways. It was anticipated that these civil works could have minor
and localized negative environmental impacts. Very small social impacts were also
considered possible. The Regional Project consisted completely of studies and general
technical supervision activities, and had no negative social and environmental impacts.
Therefore, safeguards compliance is not relevant.
40.    Procurement and Financial Management (FM). Management of procurement
was overall satisfactory, as evidenced by the results of all the Post Procurement Reviews
(PPRs) conducted throughout project implementation. However, the Regional Project did
face a series of shortcomings regarding FM. Some of these shortcomings included: (i)
untimely submission of IFRs by CAI throughout project implementation; (ii) the
misallocation of expenditures by CAI under Categories 2 and 4 (training and operating
costs) of the Grant Agreement, leading to an overload of these categories; (iii) the
borrowing of funds by CAI from the GEF Designated Account, to cover operating costs/
expenses not related to the GEF Regional Project. These shortcomings however have
been satisfactorily resolved, with the reallocation of expenditures, as needed, in Client
Connection, the issuing of pending SOEs for expenditures considered eligible and the
reimbursement of unused funds to the Bank. CAI fully reimbursed the grant account in
US$ 44,211.18, prior to the established deadline of October 31, 2013.
41.     Finally, the audit reports of the Regional Project were by and large submitted on
time and considered acceptable to the Bank. However, despite providing unqualified
(clean) opinions, all audit reports signaled weaknesses in terms of the internal control
system utilized by CAI. The last audit report, covering the period from January 1, 2012 to
June 30, 2013 was completed timely and submitted to the Bank at the end of September
2013.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(Including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
42.      To a large extent, the prospects of ensuring the sustainability of project results,
beyond project closure, depend on CAI’s ability to sustain and perpetuate itself beyond
the STAQ Program life, as originally intended. This implies ensuring its financial self-
sustainability, the availability and adequacy of staff, in terms of the required technical
skills, and the ability to generate an ongoing pipeline of new projects/ initiatives to justify


                                                11
its existence in the medium to long run. This becomes particularly challenging given the
change in the overall context vis-a-vis the late 1990s, as currently multiple new actors
and initiatives have emerged in the realm of climate change and sustainable transport,
making the identification of a specific “niche” for CAI evermore critical.
43.      Although a follow-on operation supported by the Bank is not foreseen in the
immediate future, CAI has been actively involved in a series of new projects and
initiatives, which build directly on the efforts undertaken and the results attained under
this operation. In sum, these new activities are expected to leverage financing for about
US$2.75 million in the near future. A few of these ongoing initiatives are listed below:
•   The preparation of a project to develop a national policy for urban sustainable
    mobility in cities across Mexico, with SEMARNAT (Secretaria de Medio Ambiente y
    Recursos Naturales), building on previous work undertaken with SEMARNAT
    through the Regional Project. This new project is being supported by the IDB.
•   The third phase of the development of an integrated environmental strategy
    assessment for the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan in the metropolitan area of
    Medellin (Colombia), to be developed in early 2014, building on the initial baselines
    developed for emissions, air quality, economic and co-benefit analyses.
•   The formulation of project proposals aimed at reducing air pollution in the State of
    Mexico, building on the relationship established with Mexico through the different
    interventions undertaken through the Regional Project. This includes: 1) designing a
    Plan of Action to Reduce Black Carbon Emissions in ZMVT (Zona Metropolitana del
    Valle de Mexico); 2) determining the impact of the implementation of the air quality
    guidelines of WHO on the Proaires of ZMVM and ZMVT; 3) designing a strategy to
    improve the Vehicle Emissions Testing Program of the State of Mexico; and 4)
    designing a strategy for sustainable urban mobility.
•   The expansion of the ecodriving training program CONDUCE in Colombia and
    Mexico, designed under this operation;
•   Supporting the preparation of the second investment plan for the Clean Technology
    Fund, to be potentially implemented by CAI, following-up on the prior participation
    of CAI in the CTF through this Project;
•   Working with UNEP and the Intergovernmental Network on Air Pollution for Latin
    America and the Caribbean, strengthening capacities to improve air quality
    management and related issues in the region including a strong component on
    sustainable transport;
•   Preparing a book on air quality improvement measures in Latin America, in
    cooperation with the Bank, gathering experts from 7 cities across the region and
    members of the CAI-LAC network.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)



                                                12
44.     Project relevance is rated high. STAQ’s higher-level objective is to reduce the
rate of growth of GHG emissions from transport in Latin America through the promotion
of less energy intensive and cleaner modes of transport. The Program was approved in
pre-appraisal stage in August 2006 under the GEF-3 Strategic Priorities, and is consistent
with the programmatic goals of GEF Operational Program 11 (OP-11) and the GEF
Strategic Priority of promoting energy efficient, low carbon transport and urban systems
in the Climate Change focal area (CC-6).
45.     The PDO remained in line with the OP-11’s broader goals of promoting the
implementation of lower carbon technologies; modal shifts to less polluting forms of
transport; and interventions related to bus rapid transit systems, NMT, traffic
management, and land use planning. The STAQ Program contributed to these goals by
financing the incremental costs associated with awareness generation, policy adjustments,
regulatory initiatives, and climate friendly technology options towards playing a crucial
role in overcoming key barriers to adoption of climate friendly development, transport
policies, and technologies in the urban transport sector.
46.     Finally, the PDO reflects the GEF-4 and GEF-5 strategic long-term climate
change objectives and the strategic program for the urban transport sector. 3 The Regional
Project and the three Country Projects will contribute towards the creation and adoption
of policies at the national level to decrease CO2 emissions while increasing the number of
person-trips taking place in more efficient transport systems.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
47.      Overall rating: Moderately Satisfactory
48.     Two of the Regional Project’s development objectives were fully met. However,
some challenges were faced in meeting the first objective, which was ultimately only
partially achieved, resulting in this project earning the rating of moderately satisfactory.
49.      Table 1. PDO Achievement – Objective 1
    Regional PDO        Project Outcome                        Intermediate                  Comments
                            Indicator/                      Outcome Indicators
                          Intermediate
                            Outcome
(1) To establish a   (i) Formal support                   (i) Number of                -The network has
network of local and and a work plan                      agreement letters            formally been
national government financed by                           from local and               established;
stakeholders,        different sources to                 national                     -By June 2013, 34
international        coordinate activities                governments,                 agreement letters
organizations and    at the regional level,               international                were signed (30 was
private sector       involving local and                  organizations and            the end target);



3
  GEF Focal Area Strategies and Strategic Programming for GEF-4 dated July 25, 2007 and GEF Focal Area Strategies
dated October 1, 2010.


                                                       13
entities to promote     national                 private sector           -Only 5 out of 34
policies and actions    governments,             formally endorsing       agreement letters
for more energy         international            the program;             came with financial
efficient and cleaner   organizations and        (ii) Amount of           or in-kind
urban transport         private sector.          additional resources     contributions;
systems in Latin                                 leveraged by the         -The amount of
American cities.                                 GEF Program              financial resources
                                                 through CAI;             leveraged through
                                                 (iii) Number of staff    CAI by June 30,
                                                 working at CAI to        2013 was US$ 2.2
                                                 manage the work          million (US$ 2.093
                                                 plan.                    million was the end
                                                                          target);
                                                                          -By June 2013,
                                                                          there was 4 staff
                                                                          members working in
                                                                          CAI (4 was the end
                                                                          target).

Partially achieved


50.     Objective One: Establish a network of local and national government
stakeholders, international organizations, and private sector entities to promote policies
and actions leading towards more energy efficient and cleaner urban transport systems
in Latin American cities. The first objective was partially achieved. CAI was able to
meet the majority of the targets, including obtaining formal endorsements, leveraging
additional financial resources, and sourcing and retaining staff to manage a work plan;
however, only five of the 34 endorsements from network members are accompanied by
financial or in-kind contributions, and it is still uncertain if the network will be
sustainable over the long-term. The objective could have been achieved if CAI had been
an organization with a strong existing regional presence and resources; but as CAI was a
new institution that has continued to develop over the course of the Project, both the
network and the institution itself are at risk, mainly due to a lack of financial resources.
CAI was able to leverage US$2.2 million in financial resources from the five
aforementioned sources, surpassing the end target of US$ 2.09 million.
51.    Table 2. PDO Achievement – Objective 2
   Regional PDO            Project Outcome              Intermediate           Comments
                               Indicator/            Outcome Indicators
                             Intermediate
                               Outcome
(2) To assist cities    (ii) Cities with a       (iv) Number of           - By June 2013, 11
develop sustainable     strategy to reduce       case-studies, reports    case-studies, reports
urban transport         CO2 through              and guidelines on        and guidelines had
strategies that         sustainable transport    strategies to reduce     been produced as
integrate climate       strategies, including    CO2 by sustainable       per the target;


                                                14
change and air         regulatory and           urban transport       - By June 2013, the
quality components     financial                program               number of trainees
                       frameworks that          disseminated in the   reached 1333 (the
                       foster sustainable       region;               end target was 500)
                       transport systems at     (v) Number of
                       local and national       trainees that have
                       level;                   taken the
                                                sustainable
                                                transport, climate
                                                change and air
                                                quality courses
                                                offered by the
                                                program.
                       (iii) Better                                   -No associated
                       understanding of the                           intermediate
                       local and global                               outcome indicators
                       impacts of different                           or targets-
                       transport policy and                           Deficiencies in the
                       technology                                     selection of the
                       strategies in cities.                          indicator.
Achieved

52.      Objective Two: To assist cities to develop sustainable urban transport
strategies that integrate climate change and air quality component. The second
objective was achieved and exceeded expected targets in terms of provision of training
technical assistance and webinars. CAI has assisted STAQ cities in developing strategies
integrating these components through the provision of hands-on, on-demand training and
assistance through numerous training clinics, conferences and workshops; while
providing other technical assistance on sustainable transport concepts. A number of
STAQ cities have incorporated sustainability, environmental, and climate change
components under their wider plans, policies, strategies, and/or laws since the beginning
of the STAQ Program. Some notorious knowledge products enhancing cities capacity to
reduce CO2 are: the Emissions Assessment Knowledge Platform (Helpdesk) created by
CAI, the 11 policy papers, and the Communities of Practice/Webinars. CAI was also
involved in the development of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mitigation Accounting
Initiative, piloted in Medellin, and expected to provide the first framework for assessing
GHG impacts from policies implementation, thus setting an international standard. See
Annex 5 and/or visit http://www.cleanairinstitute.org for details.
53.     CAI was also able to create and maintain a virtual network of regional trainers,
experts and institutions, adopting a “train the trainers” approach that is expected to
continue to deliver services and execute activities in Latin America over the long term,
after project closure. CAI also assumed a clearinghouse function for strategies, options,
instruments and experiences to design and implement transport programs and projects
linking to climate change and air quality. The STAQ cities have utilized CAI’s guidance




                                               15
to integrate climate, land use, and sustainable urban transport concepts into legal, policy,
and planning frameworks.


54.    Table 3. PDO Achievement – Objective 3
   Regional PDO           Project Outcome               Intermediate           Comments
                               Indicator/            Outcome Indicators
                             Intermediate
                               Outcome
(3) To improve the      (iv) Cities applying     (vi) Number of           - By June 2013,
capacity of cities to   assessment tools to      cities applying tools    more than 3 cities
quantify the impacts    quantify greenhouse      and methodologies        were applying the
of transport policies   gas and air quality      available to assess      tools and
on climate change       impacts of select        transport policies       methodologies
and air pollution       transport options;       and investments in       available (the end
emissions                                        terms of climate and     target was 3);
                                                 air quality benefits
                                                 at city and project
                                                 level.
                        (v) Availability and     Tools available          - Achieved by June
                        actual application of    through helpdesk         2013
                        tools for local and
                        national decision
                        makers and project
                        developers to assess
                        and compare
                        transport policies
                        and investments in
                        terms of climate and
                        air quality benefits
Achieved


55.    Objective Three: To improve the capacity of cities to quantify the impacts of
transport policies on climate change and air pollution emissions
This third objective was also achieved. Although it is difficult to measure concretely how
and to what extent STAQ cities capacities were improved as a result of this project, it is
inferred that CAI and the Regional Project have contributed to this improvement through
a number of activities. Such activities include the provision of trainings on GHG impact
assessments, the provision of technical assistance, and the facilitation of knowledge
exchange through the dissemination of information and a number of workshops. CAI has
also developed a number of tools, methodologies and other guidelines specifically
designed for the region; as well as reference cases to guide cities in measuring GHG
impacts, including IES, Mobile 6, and IVE models.



                                                16
56.    CAI has developed a Web site that includes a helpdesk and access to the
Communities of Practice (COPs), based on the STAQ Program’s five thematic windows.
These CoPs aim to disseminate the products developed in the framework of the STAQ
Program, particularly the policy papers, as well as being used for wider capacity building,
and exchanging of information. Additionally, the Web site aggregates experiences from
throughout the LAC region in the form of guidelines, manuals, methodologies, and past
webinars, specifically designed for the region. These tools and methodologies are being
used, and several STAQ members use the Web site to access information on these
methodologies. Guatemala developed its emissions inventory for mobile sources using
CAI’s information on the helpdesk on IVE model, and the Metropolitan Area of the
Aburra Valley is applying the IES approach to its Sustainable Mobility Plan using CAI’s
experience in Bogota. The IES approach was used to evaluate GHG emissions, local
pollutants, and to assess co-benefit assessment and other externalities. Medellin applied
the methodologies and tools outside the framework of the baseline assessments supported
by CAI as part of a World Resources Institute (WRI) pilot.
57.     Since its creation in March 2012, CAI’s online helpdesk has received 2,137 visits,
5,152 page views, and 226 downloads. There have been 4,157 visits to the Regional
scenario Web page and a total of 7,655 views of the pages. Through this website CAI
also received requests for advice and support from Caracas, Rosario, and Guatemala City.
Since November 2012, there have been 89 visits to the Air Quality and Climate Change
Community of Practice and 545 page views. There were 415 participants in the 3
webinars on climate change and air quality.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
58.      Given the nature of the Regional Project which only consisted of studies,
institution building and general technical supervision activities, no economic and
financial analysis was carried out at appraisal. Applying economic analysis to technical
assistance projects is rare and challenging. However, at the time of appraisal a
quantitative assessment may have been carried-out on the efficiency of the use of a
centralized capacity building service – through CAI - as compared with what each of the
individual country-based project would have achieved using the same type of capacity
building and assessment of appropriate GHG reduction methodologies.
59.     For the entire STAQ Program as well as for each Country Project an incremental
costs and benefits analysis, on the basis of with and without project scenarios, was carried
out. The ex-post version of this analysis will be included in the ICR reports of each
Country Project. They cannot be included in this ICR, as the Regional Project closed
prior to the closing of the three Country Projects.
60.     For the Regional Project, in an ex-post qualitative assessment perspective, it can
be highlighted that the price of the studies carried out was generally below the respective
cost estimates. The studies, once contracted, were quickly implemented and there were
no cost overruns and only few contract modifications. Moreover, within a limited budget,
the Project was able to produce 11 case-studies, reports and guidelines on strategies to
reduce CO2 emissions through sustainable urban transport programs, to train 1333


                                                17
practitioners (with a target of 500) in sustainable transport, climate change and air
quality, and to deliver a series of innovative knowledge products expected to have
significant impact in the realm of urban transport and climate change. Given the above, it
can be argued that the specific capacity building methodologies that CAI innovated, as
compared with a more conventional approach to training and capacity building of each
Country Project were more efficient; a centralized approach to technical assistance and
knowledge products resulted in reduced costs of delivering a given capacity building
event, and increased number of people that were trained per capacity building event.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
61.     The overall rating is moderately satisfactory. The PDO and the project design
remain highly relevant; the Regional Project achieved 2 of the 3 development objectives,
4 of the 5 established outcome indicators, 5 of the 6 intermediate outcome indicators, and
was fully disbursed.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
62.     The STAQ Program expects that, through the promotion of sustainable transport
strategies and concepts, it will indirectly have a positive impact on poverty alleviation
throughout the region. This Regional Project lays the proper foundation to encourage
better decision making by relevant city planning officials by allowing them to 1)
understand better the negative social and environmental impacts of current transportation
systems, and 2) measure and account more effectively for such negative impacts. By
doing so, project proponents expected to have an impact, down the line, in terms of
improving transport conditions and overall accessibility among low income users, who
typically suffer the most from inequitable access to transport and tend to be most affected
by public transport shortfalls.
 (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
63.      Cities: Institutional development and capacity strengthening were part of the core
objectives of this project. Local, provincial, and national government agencies and
affiliated organizations active in the area of sustainable transport participated in a number
of capacity-strengthening activities, including numerous workshops and clinics
integrating urban transport and land-use principles. The project as a whole, and in
particular Component 2, focused on strengthening the capacity of local institutions to
plan and implement comprehensive urban transport policies (for further details and
results see Annex 2, Component 2).
64.      Institutional building/ strengthening of CAI: Probably one of the most relevant
accomplishments of the Regional Project was the transformation of CAI, from a
burgeoning institution at project on-start, with no actual implementation capacity, to a
fully functioning network, capable of undertaking and managing diverse projects and
initiatives. Despite shortfalls and difficulties encountered in terms of ensuring financial


                                               18
self-sustainability, CAI has managed to assemble the necessary human resources and
technical capacities to act as an effective executing agency.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
65.     No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops took place.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
66.     At present, the main risk to the Regional Project development outcome seems to
be the uncertainties in terms of sustaining financial support for the CAI network in the
future. This risk was not identified at the project design stage, and therefore no mitigation
measures were foreseen.
67.      However, during implementation CAI carried-out an aggressive outreach
campaign, generating additional incentives for donors, with the ultimate objective of
expanding and diversifying its membership and sponsorship network. Additionally, CAI
continues to foster closer ties and collaborative efforts with other similar international
initiatives, national and local governments, local organizations (universities, etc.) and
actively participates in regional events, to expand its opportunities and compensate for
the difficulties encountered in reaching out to the donor community.
68.     CAI was conceived as a self-sustainable network following the closure of the
Regional Project, relying on payments of services and donor funds to finance its core
functions. That has made fundraising and self-promotion one of the top priorities on
CAI’s work agenda, for evident reasons, diverting efforts and energy away from what
was expected to be its core mission: the promotion of sustainable transport and air
quality. This trend could eventually undermine CAI’s capacity to remain a key player in
this arena.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
69.     The STAQ Program can be commended for being a path-breaking and innovative
operation, which adequately responded to the pressing need, at the time of preparation, of
better linking the agendas of urban transport and climate change in the region. The
objectives pursued by the operation remain relevant and there is no question that the
Bank had a strategic advantage in moving this agenda forward, given its regional
presence in the urban transport sector and its ability to mobilize the support of different
stakeholders, at local, national and regional level.
70.    Preparation of the Regional Project, specifically, was thorough, involving an
extensive consultative process with participating cities, but also lengthy, spanning over a


                                              19
4-year period. One of the main factors explaining this prolonged preparation phase was
the uncertainty regarding availability of GEF funding, with the original provision of
funds being significantly modified during the preparation phase. However, these factors
were outside the Bank team’s control.
71.     Notwithstanding, in retrospective, the Regional Project design did reveal a series
of weaknesses, including: (i) overambitious objectives (particularly, the creation of a self-
funded regional network); (ii) deficiencies in the choice or wording of some indicators in
the Project Results Framework, making their actual measurement and evaluation
challenging; (iii) underestimation of project operating costs, considering the initial inflow
of resources required to get CAI up and running; (iv) dispersion of activities included in
the Regional Project, leading to a loss of focus and orientation during implementation;
and (v) problems in the design of coordination mechanisms between the Regional and the
Country Projects, oftentimes generating bottlenecks in implementation. Probably one of
the most significant flaws in project design lies in the choice of institutional/
implementation arrangements. The fact that CAI had to act as implementing agency of
the Regional Project, when the operation, as designed, required a strong implementing
agency from the on-start, resulted in unforeseen delays and problems during the project
life. An alternative implementation arrangement, relying on a more established or mature
organization, would have probably suited the operation better.
72.    Consequently, despite the innovative nature of the project and its thorough
technical preparation, due to the abovementioned shortcomings, Bank performance in
terms of ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.     The Bank team undertook an active supervision role, providing hands-on support
to CAI throughout the entire implementation period, particularly in the initial stage,
providing institutional support, through the staffing and training of new personnel,
specifically in Bank policies and procedures.
74.     The initial delays incurred between grant approval and effectiveness, and between
the declaration of effectiveness and the actual initiation of activities, can be mostly
attributed to the vacuum that existed in terms of project implementation capacity. In
addition, the internal Bank requirements (through the effectiveness and disbursement
conditions) also contributed to these initial delays.
75.     Although the Bank team was proactive in undertaking the project restructuring
resulting from the findings at the MTR, questions remain on whether this was a missed
opportunity to revise the project RF and monitoring indicators, and whether the
restructuring actually lived up to its objectives (see discussion in paragraph 37).
76.    Finally, the Bank team provided adequate support both in technical and fiduciary
matters, sustaining permanent communication with CAI counterparts and working side
by side in solving implementation issues, as they arose. This partnership was critical in
managing to attain satisfactory results despite the various obstacles encountered during


                                                   20
project execution. Safeguards policies were not triggered due to the technical assistance
nature of the Regional Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
77.     The Bank performance at entry and the quality of supervision are rated
moderately unsatisfactory and moderately satisfactory, respectively. The Bank’s overall
performance is considered moderately satisfactory given the innovative nature of the
project, its relevance to the region, and the various knowledge products created which are
successfully used by Bank teams in projects and policy dialogue with clients (see
paragraph 36 above).

5.2 Borrower
Implementing Agency Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
78.     The CAI’s capacity to act as Project Implementing Agency (PIA) needs to be
evaluated based on the following factors: (i) although CAI was spun off from the CAI-
LAC network, no institutional framework existed prior to the launch of the Regional
Project, enabling CAI to actively assume the functions endowed upon it as PIA; (ii)
beyond the lack of an institutional framework, at inception CAI did not have the human
resources or technical capacities/ skills required to act as PIA; and (iii) CAI’s budget
relied exclusively on the Bank’s grant proceeds, with operating costs exceeding the
original provisions.
79.      These limitations led to considerable delays in getting a fully functional PIA, with
most of the initial project efforts being devoted to getting CAI up and running. However,
throughout the life of the Regional Project CAI managed to establish itself as a leading
player within the clean air, climate change and sustainable transport agendas in the LAC
region, with a team of 4 highly qualified and specialized professionals who acquired the
skills to manage projects of this nature.
80.     Beyond the initial stage, CAI faced a series of implementation challenges,
including: (i) dispersion of its efforts, given the large number of parallel activities being
undertaken under the Regional Project, requiring CAI to be active on too many fronts
simultaneously; (ii) shortcomings in terms of project financial management (delays in
submission of IFRs, charging of ineligible expenses, borrowing of funds from GEF
Designated Account); (iii) difficulties in reaching out and ensuring support from the
donor community; and (iv) limitations in its capacity to truly act as coordinating agency
vis-a-vis the Country Projects. Budget constraints were often to blame in CAI being
spread out too thin and not managing to provide effective coordination of the Country
Projects. For example, representatives from the CAI were often unable to participate in
supervision missions of Country Projects due to budget constraints, restricting the
capacity of the Regional Project to stay informed of realities on the ground in STAQ
cities, provide support as needed, and encourage collaboration amongst pilots. Beyond
budget constraints, there were time constraints in trying to coordinate the agendas of the
respective Bank supervision teams, making coordination meetings more the exception


                                             21
than the norm during implementation. All of these factors considerably limited CAI’s
ability to truly fulfill its coordination mission/ mandate.
81.     However, in general, issues arising during implementation were adequately
resolved by CAI, with support from the Bank team, as mentioned above. A clear example
has been the ability to find solutions to the different issues encountered in terms of
financial management, as described in the FM section of this ICR (paragraph 41).
82.     A final question when evaluating CAI as implementing agency, also previously
raised, is its sustainability moving forward, particularly its capacity to become and
remain financially self-sustainable after the Regional Project closure.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
83.    Given that Government performance is not relevant to this operation, and that
CAI’s performance as PIA was rated as moderately satisfactory, the same rating applies
for overall Borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
84.     Design of Regional Projects. The experience gained under this operation raises a
series of questions regarding the most appropriate way of structuring regional or umbrella
type projects: Do independent project cycles help or hinder the effective implementation
of these projects? Can effective coordination be guaranteed when Project timeframes
differ substantially? Is the inclusion of legal covenants to establish linkages between
projects recommendable? What other form of coordination mechanisms can be put in
place to guarantee connectivity and ongoing dialogue between projects? Finally, does the
Bank have the appropriate mechanisms to enable proper implementation of regional
operations?
85.     Results Framework and relevance of PDO indicator over time. As indicated in
Section 2.3 of the ICR, the definition of appropriate and easily measurable set of
indicators to reflect most objectively the level of achievement of the project PDOs was a
challenge. That has led to difficulties in measuring the real project performance. Project
teams should pursue more active restructuring – ideally at mid-term review – when such
weakness is identified, and reformulate the indicators by better aligning them with the
PDOs. That is particularly critical for projects that operate for several years in a changing
environment when often the original results framework, or part of it, may become less
relevant to the evolving context.
86.      Institutional arrangements matter. Beyond questions on the appropriateness of
the institutional arrangements put in place for this operation, and the effectiveness of the
adopted selection process, timing becomes a critical factor. The implementing agency
needs to be capable of exercising its implementation capacity since the grant/loan
effectiveness. Trying to strengthen and build the implementation agency while in parallel
trying to advance execution is not recommendable and inevitably leads to delays in
project implementation. The innovative features of regional projects and their potential



                                             22
transformative capacity come associated with longer preparation timetables, higher costs
and implementation challenges, given the need for constant coordination. Although
regional projects are increasingly being promoted by development partners, and their
value in terms of regional integration cannot be denied, it is important to have realistic
expectations when moving these projects forward, acknowledging their implications in
terms of project preparation and implementation. Additionally, ensuring cross-
fertilization and effective coordination between projects can be extremely challenging,
particularly when resources, both human and financial, are restricted. Functions endowed
on the “coordinating body”, including information sharing, dissemination, institutional
strengthening, monitoring and evaluation are often too broad when compared to budget
availability, making operating costs often higher than expected.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
87.      The Borrower ICR/comments received on November 6, 2013 were incorporated
in the report (see Annex 4). The general views expressed by CAI are in line with this ICR
contents. However, there is a disagreement regarding the proposed overall outcome rating
of the Regional Project as “moderately satisfactory”. Although CAI recognizes that two
out of the three PDOs were fully met whilst one was partially achieved, they argue that
consideration should be given to the work undertaken to the completion of the activities
included under the four components. They argue that compliance with the component
activities was the focus of the Bank supervision team during implementation. Therefore
the rating should take into account the full achievement of activities under the project
components.
88.     Although the Bank team understands the point raised by CAI, a Bank financed
project is rated based on the level of achievement of the PDOs through the related
indicators results, not on the list of activities accomplished under the different project
components.
(b) Cofinanciers
89.     Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
90.     Not applicable.




                                           23
                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ equivalent)
                                                                     Actual/Latest            Percentage of
              Components                  Appraisal Estimate
                                                                       Estimate               Appraisal (%)

Component 1: Evaluate
methodologies to assess climate
                                                  538,000              530,284.45                   98.6
change, air quality and other
benefits of transport interventions
Component 2: Strengthen the
planning and implementation
                                                  811,000              768,798.16                   94.8
capacity of local and national
level institutions
Component 3: Foster the
development of regional national
and local comprehensive climate                   764,000              725,510.05                   95.0
change, air quality, energy,
transport and land use policies
Component 4. Project
implementation and STAQ                           790,000              834,196.16                   105.6
Program monitoring and support
              Total Baseline Cost                2,903,000            2,858,788.82 4                98.5
Physical Contingencies                              0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00                  0.00
               Total Project Costs
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                  0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                  0.00                   0.00
      Total Financing Required                    2,903,000             2,858,788.82


(b) Financing (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of      Estimate      Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing (US$ millions (US$ millions Appraisal
                                                      )             )
Borrower                                       2.09          2.15 5       103%
Global Environment Facility (GEF)              2.90          2.85         98.5%
Local Sources of Borrowing Country             0.00          0.00         .00




4
    The grant closed with an undisbursed balance of US$ 44,211.18

5
  As of June 30, 2013. Subsequent to the closing date and before November 6, 2013 CAI has received additional
financing of over US$ 50,000




                                                         24
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1: Evaluate methodologies to assess climate change, air quality and other benefits of
transport interventions
Cost: US$530,284.45 or 98.6% of the appraisal estimate of US$538,000
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes
This component was meant to gather, assess and enhance existing methodologies and models to quantify
GHG and air quality impact of transport interventions. It envisaged the following activities: (i)
identification and review of existing transport demand, emission and climate change assessment
methodologies and models, (ii) evaluation of commonly used or promising methodologies in cities, (iii)
identification of strengths and weaknesses of different models at different scales, (iv) organization of
online forums and technical workshops to disseminate and discuss models and methodologies with
governments and stakeholders at regional and city level, and (v) compilation of regional scenarios with
climate change and air quality baselines, alternative transport scenarios, and potential GHG and air quality
benefits as a result of sustainable transport programs in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.

All planned activities were substantially carried out and the expected outputs were largely achieved. This
included the following:
• Identified and reviewed transport demand, emission, climate change, and health impact assessment
     methodologies, models and tools. This included a description of their strengths and weaknesses and
     the preparation of fact sheets. The results from this activity are available through CAI’s website;
• Organized an expert workshop on Critical Review of Methodologies to Assess Greenhouse Gas and
     Local Pollutant Emission Impacts of Transport Interventions on September 14-15, 2010 to shed light
     on the large amount of existing methodologies, models and tools to assess GHG emissions and air
     pollutants from transport intervention and to calculate the related air quality and health impacts;
• Organization of a workshop on Applying the Integrated Environmental Strategies (IES) Approach to
     the Integrated Public Transport System Plan for Bogotá on September 16, 2010 to present the analytic
     framework for considering strategies that can yield local and global benefits as well as an opportunity
     to apply it to a real world case, i.e. the Public Transport Plan of Bogota and on November 29, 2011 to
     present the results of the GHG, local pollutants emissions assessment analysis and their impact on
     public health;
• Evaluated non-motorized transport methodologies of the Transportation Emissions Evaluations Model
     for Projects (TEEMP) and the Center for Clean Air Policy (CCAP) Guidebook Emissions Calculator
     in Rosario and simplification of the TEEMP methodology to be used for the baseline assessments in
     the GEF NMT country projects;
• Evaluated the TEEMP, the CCAP Guidebook Emissions Calculator, and the Methodology for
     Calculating GHG Emissions Reduction for The Mexican Urban Transport Transformation Project
     methodologies for BRT systems in Monterrey and simplification of the last one to be used for the
     baseline assessments in the GEF country projects;
• Co-developed WRI’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Mitigation Accounting Initiative through active
     participation in Technical Working Group meetings (via Webex and in-person workshops). Provided
     input and reviewed chapters on baseline emissions estimations, ex-ante and ex-poste emissions
     estimations. Drafted a transport case study for calculating emissions entitled “Expansion,
     improvement and promotion of public transportation through the implementation of a BRT” and
     reviewed and provided feedback on other transport case studies drafted by other participants. The
     protocol will provide the first framework for assessing GHG impacts from policies and the aim is for
     it to be adopted as an international standard for such assessments, supporting developing countries in
     the GHG impact quantification of policies. CAI is also pilot-testing an Air Quality Management Plan
     as part of the above mentioned initiative in Medellin. Specific areas which will be addressed using
     the Protocol are: fuel quality, vehicle inspection scheme, compliance with new energy efficiency
     laws, renewal of the vehicle fleet, improvements in the public transport system, reduction of the
     motorcycle fleet, and inclusion of TDM measures in the city’s plans. Dissemination of initial lessons
     learned is available on the CAI website. This is one of a number of pilots which will be used to
     improve the protocol and provide case study example prior to final publication of the protocol.
• Publication of a helpdesk (http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/helpdesk/) to assist LAC countries in the


                                                    25
    evaluation of GHG emissions and health impacts of transport interventions. The website includes
    basic guidance and recommendations as to the tools and models available to assess GHG and local
    pollutant emissions from urban transport interventions in Latin America and the Caribbean Region. A
    database is also provided of factsheets and more detailed information;
•   Assisted Monterrey, Leon, Ciudad Juarez, Cordoba, Rosario Posadas, Belo Horizonte and Curitiba in
    the assessment of GHG impacts of their transport interventions under the STAQ Program and
    publication of three country reports with the results (for details see component 4 below);
•   Prepared a technical note on GHG emission assessment from transport interventions: “Development
    of a Common Assessments Framework and Proposed Methodologies for Integrated Assessments of
    GHG and Local Pollutants of Urban Transport Interventions in Latin America and The Caribbean
    Region”. This document is available through CAI’s website.
•   Prepared a paper with guidelines on baseline and follow up assessments of GHG emissions for
    transport interventions, which builds upon experience and lessons learned from undertaking the
    emissions assessments for 14 GEF country projects of the STAQ Program.
•   Prepared a paper on methodologies and tools for the evaluation of freight transport policies and
    identification of policies to improve urban transport logistics;
•   Trained three local officials from the State Council of Transport and Roads (CET y V, in its Spanish
    acronym) of the city of Monterrey on GHG emission inventories, methodologies (CoP) (including the
    methodology developed by CAI) and other methodologies developed for other institutions in 2012.
•   Applied methodologies and tools reviewed and supported by CAI on GHG and local pollutants
    emissions and co-benefit assessment of Air Quality Management policies in Honduras, Nicaragua,
    and Peru.
•   Organized three webinars on methodologies and tools to conduct GHG emissions assessment from
    transport interventions: a) Impact assessment process in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, data
    needs and available tools (November 6, 2012); b) Uses of the TEEMP (December 13, 2012); and c)
    Proposed methodology to assess GHG emissions assessment from BRT and NMT interventions (May
    2, 2013).
•   Reviewed and improved the Monitoring, Reporting and Verification System for the “Clean Transport”
    and “Vehicle Substitution and Renewal Scheme” Programs in Mexico. This activity has been
    developed as part of a program led by the German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ) for the
    Mexican Government with the objective to support the development of Nationally Appropriate
    Mitigation Actions. The Monitoring, Reporting and Verification systems are a tool to collect the
    necessary information to monitor and report on implementation of given policies following protocols
    accepted by the international community. The deliverables include a review of the existing MRV
    structure, recommendations of changes and improvements to the structure, a tool for collecting data
    and calculating information to compare to indicators and GHG emission reductions targets. CAI led
    the team and directed the execution of the project. An international literature review was conducted
    by CAI as well as the construction of a conceptual framework from which the rest of the project was
    built upon. Through its emission experts, CAI also constructed the algorithm for the emissions tool,
    and provided the programmer with default emission factors, fuel consumption data, and values for the
    correction factors to be included.
•   Identified and evaluated policy options for the preparation of an Urban Freight Logistics policy in
    Mexico to be developed into a Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action (NAMA). CAI led this
    initiative, in partnership with the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Communications and
    Transport, the GIZ, Texas Transportation Institute and USAID-MLED Mexico Program, and a
    number of public, private and social stakeholder organizations.
•   Prepared web pages entitled “Latin America – An overview of Regional Scenarios”
    (http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/escenarios/). The objective of this activity is to provide a source of
    information on current emissions projections and present scenarios for sustainable urban transport and
    climate change in Latin America and their potential impacts. These focus on Brazil, Costa Rica and
    Mexico (at the time of this analysis Argentina did not have enough information for conducting the
    analysis).
•   Developed online emissions factors database from interventions to guide CAI-LAC members in
    preparing emissions assessment for future sustainable transport projects.




                                                    26
Component 2: Strengthen the planning and implementation capacity of local and national level
institutions
Cost: US$768,798.16 or 94.8% of the appraisal estimate of US$811,000
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes
This component aimed at assisting cities and strengthening their capacity to maximize GHG benefits of
investments. It also aimed at helping them to implement comprehensive urban transport policies, which
effectively address air quality and GHG concerns. It envisaged the following activities: (i) delivery of
hands-on assistance and training to local staff and stakeholders on transport, air quality and climate
related topics, (ii) creation and maintenance of a virtual network of regional trainers, experts and
institutions to deliver activities in Latin America in the long run, (iii) compilation and dissemination of a
hands-on manual to develop sustainable transport strategies and projects, and (iv) taking on a
clearinghouse function for strategies, options, instruments and experiences to design and implement
transport programs and projects and their linkages to climate change and air quality

All planned activities were substantially carried out and the expected outputs were largely achieved.
This included the following:
• Four hands-on clinics on land use and transport in Mexico City in 2010, Belo Horizonte in 2011,
    Rio de Janeiro in 2012, and Lima in 2012, with a total of 159 participants;
• Seven face to face training workshops on the following topics: i) GHG emissions assessment
    methodologies, ii) Travel demand management strategies in Mexico, 2010; iii) Non-motorized
    transport in Rosario, 2011; iv) Public bike sharing systems in Rosario, 2011; v) Non-motorized
    transport in Rio de Janeiro, 2011; vi) Travel demand management strategies in Bogota, 2011; and
    vii) Integrated environmental strategies assessment for transport interventions in Bogota, 2011 with
    a total of 591 participants ,
• Launched six Communities of Practice (CoP) based on the STAQ Program’s five thematic windows
    and one more about fuel and technologies. These CoP aim at disseminating the products developed
    in the framework of the STAQ Program, particularly the policy papers, as well as being used for
    wider capacity building, and exchanging of information. These CoPs starts with the presentation of
    a topic through a webinar where the participants learn, discuss and share relevant information,
    documents related are uploaded to the website and everybody can reply using our blog tool;
• 37 Webinars on six components: Travel Demand Management (4 webinars), Non-Motorized
    Transport (5 webinars), Freight Transport Management (4 webinars), Climate Change and Air
    quality (7 webinars) Fuel and technologies (6 webinars) and Public Transport and Land Use
    Planning – Transit Oriented Development (8 webinars).
• 2 Brown Bag Lunches at the World Bank on the following topics: Transit Oriented Development
    strategies for BRT corridors and Incentive Structure in Transit Concession Contracts: The Case of
    Santiago, Chile, and London, England.
• Established on CAI’s website of a virtual network of experts, consultants and trainers, which
    includes the profiles of sustainable urban transport consultants, experts and trainers
    (http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/AsistenciaTecnica/). This network is linked to LinkedIn.
•    Currently negotiating a contract with the Inter-American Development Bank’s Institute for
    Economic and Social Development (INDES) to use CoP to provide virtual and in person training.
    The training program is entitled “Leading the sustainable development of Latin American cities:
    Program for sub-national management teams. CAI developed a module entitled “The environmental
    challenge of the sustainable development,” based on CAI’s experiences from the STAQ program.
    CAI is in the process of developing training materials. A pilot face-to-face training session will be
    held in November 2013, and implementation of a one-year training program with both virtual and
    in-person sessions will follow in 2014.
• Provided technical assistance to: (i) Rosario in the framework of a proposal for an integrated public
    transport system and a bike sharing system (Urbici), (ii) Posadas related to the designs and technical
    documents for paving works in the Uruguay Avenue BRT corridor, (iii) Buenos Aires to restructure
    the PTUMA program, (iv) Puebla in the restructuring and improving the bidding documents: for a
    road safety plan for the first BRT corridor in the metropolitan area and the design of a on NMT Plan
    for the metropolitan area, (v) Monterrey in preparing and strengthening the bidding documents for
    the preparation of technical specifications for CNG buses, preparation of technical specifications for



                                                    27
     emission control and security requirements for CNG stations, revision of 2012 GHG inventory,
     preparation of a bicycle mobility strategy, and the concession contract for public transport supply in
     the Lincoln public transport Corridor – Ruiz Cortines – Ecovia), (vi) Ciudad Juarez in the
     preparation of a comprehensive freight plan and updating the legal framework for freight transport,
     (vii) Belo Horizonte in the preparation of terms of reference for the development of transit oriented
     development along the Contour Ring Road North, improvement of the interconnection of an
     existing multimodal (CBTU railway, municipal and inter-municipal buses) terminal at Vilarinho
     with a new BRT corridor (Antonio Carlos) including improved land use in the terminal and
     corresponding corridors, and to develop an integrated strategy of land use and transportation
     planning in a major transport corridor to include densification, other zoning and urban design
     policies, and financial, regulatory and tax instruments to induce the desired changes in land uses.
• Designed an “Efficient Drivers Program” training program (CONDUCE). The Program has already
     been designed, and CAI is in the process of developing specific course material. This training
     program is part of a broader regional program being developed by CAI: “Integrated Environmental
     Strategy for a more Efficient and Low Carbon Emissions Freight Transport in LAC.” The aim of
     this program is to disseminate environmentally sustainable policies and strategies for the
     development of a green freight sector in LAC. The CONDUCE Program is currently being piloted
     in Mexico. The pilot was launched by CAI in May 2013 with financial support from the US-
     Mexico Border Environment Cooperation Commission (BECC) and the Environmental Protection
     Agency of the United States (EPA). This pilot phase aims to train a group of 50 new trainers in eco-
     driving techniques and 200 truck drivers in the first year. CAI are responsible for providing an
     online knowledge and training platform and working with the Ministry of Environment and
• Produced 11 policy papers on the following topics: (i) Travel Demand Management: Opportunities
     and Challenges in urban areas of Latin America, (ii) Public Bike Sharing Opportunities in Latin
     America and their Emission Reduction Potential, (iii) Solar illumination of bus stops to enhance
     public transport quality, (iv) Experience of Contract Models in Chile for Efficient Public Transport
     Service Operation, (v) Sustainable and Low Carbon Transport Promotion Strategies in Latin
     America, (vi) CAI’s experience in supporting cities in the implementation of bike sharing schemes,
     (vii) Considerations for natural gas buses, (viii) Impact of the reduction of fuel subsidies on air
     quality, (ix) Experience of implementing logistics policies and initiatives to reduce GHG emissions
     from urban freight transport in LAC (x) Planning for BRT-Oriented Development: lessons and
     prospects from Brazil and Colombia, and (xi) Bus Rapid Transit with Corridor Densification in
     Belo Horizonte: Case Analysis.
Component 3: Foster the development of regional national and local comprehensive climate
change, air quality, energy, transport and land use policies
Cost: US$725,510.05 or 95% of the appraisal estimate of US$764,000
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes
This subcomponent was meant to build awareness and foster the policy dialogue at national and local
levels to promote more rational uses of motor vehicles and facilitate the introduction of more fuel
efficient and cleaner technologies. It included (i) the organization of high-level annual conferences and
workshops for targeted dialogues, (ii) the development of hand-outs and easily accessible information
for decision makers on key environmental and climate change impacts of transport policies and possible
measures to reduce impacts, and (iii) the maintenance of a coordinated policy dialogue with the
countries on the implementation of national policies and economic incentives to promote sustainable
transport, energy efficiency, clean technologies and fuels and facilitate implementation of local action
plans.

All planned activities were substantially carried out and the expected outputs were largely achieved.
This included the following:
• Organized a conference and exhibit on sustainable transport: “Linkages to Mitigate Climate Change
    and Improve Air Quality” from July 25-27, 2006 in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Although this was achieved
    prior to project initiation, it was conceived as part of the STAQ project, the official start date of
    which was delayed. There were 29 speakers at the conference, and 10 delegations from STAQ
    cities and 87 panelists.
•    Organized a conference on Sustainable Transport, Air Quality and Climate Change for Latin



                                                   28
    America and the Caribbean from May 11 to 13, 2011 in Rosario, which more than 350 people from
    over 40 Latin American cities attended. The conference hosted 109 speakers and special guests,
    with 23 moderated session, two high level round tables, and 14 presentations. The event was
    covered in the media and close to 90% of the participants considered it as very good and excellent;
•   Developed a Sustainable Transport virtual library using the communities of practice
    (http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/cops/bd-conocimientos-gdt/). The library provides access to
    relevant information and publications on sustainable transport.
•   Prepared 8 policy notes summarizing sustainable transport, climate change and air quality issues for
    policy makers. CAI has disseminated two-page guidelines on a) Planning for BRT-Oriented
    Development: lessons and prospects from Brazil and Colombia, b) Bus Rapid Transit with Corridor
    Densification: Belo Horizonte Case Study , c) Bus stop lighting systems to improve accessibility to
    public transport, d) Incentive structure in transit concession contracts: the case of Santiago, Chile,
    and London, England, e) Travel demand management: opportunities to mitigate transport
    externalities in Latin America, f) Recommendations for the introduction of natural gas vehicles in
    BRT systems in developing cities, g) Recommendations for the implementation of bike share
    systems in Latin American cities, h) Experiences in urban freight logistic policies and initiatives to
    reduce emissions of GHG in LAC;
•   In April 2010 CAI was commissioned by the World Bank to develop a strategy for the introduction
    of cleaner vehicles and sustainable transport system in Colombia, for consideration by the
    Colombian government. The strategy encompasses three sections: 1) international practices and
    public policy instruments to promote clean vehicles around the world, 2) Opportunities and
    challenges for introducing clean vehicles in Colombia, and 3) Proposal to establish a number of
    regulatory instruments and policy framework. Parts of this strategy are currently being incorporated
    into the Ministry of Environment’s strategy to promote electric, hybrid, and natural gas vehicles in
    Colombia.
•   Assisted Colombian government in developing strategies on sustainable transport and air quality
    policies. In April 2010 CAI was commissioned by the World Bank to develop a strategy for a
    National Policy on Air Quality for the Colombian Ministry of Environment, Housing, and
    Territorial Development. The strategy has three sections: 1) Overview of international practices and
    public policy instruments to promote clean vehicles around the world 2) Opportunities and
    challenges for introducing clean vehicles in Colombia, and 3) Proposal to establish relevant
    regulatory instruments and policy frameworks. Parts of this strategy are currently being
    incorporated into the Ministry of Environment’s strategy to promote electric, hybrid, and natural
    gas vehicles in Colombia. CAI entered a technical cooperation agreement with the Metropolitan
    Authority of Aburra Valley (AMVA) to implement an Air Quality Management Plan between 2012
    and 2013. CAI assisted the AMVA in 1) Designing technical specifications for an automated
    control system to track emissions testing at vehicle inspection stations; 2) Developing a technical
    proposal to strengthen on-road mobile-source emissions monitoring; 3) identifying improvements
    and quality control requirements for emissions testing at vehicle inspection stations; 4) Designing a
    remote sensing monitoring pilot test to enable emissions data collection without interrupting traffic
    flow In June 2013, the AMVA and CAI began developing the TOR for a sustainable urban mobility
    plan for the Metropolitan Area of Aburra Valley.
•   Provided input to the Peruvian government in incorporating sustainable transport, climate change
    and air quality considerations into a national program on sustainable development called: “Our
    Cities.” This program aims to foster the development 18 small sustainable cities under a new green
    growth approach to ensure their sustainability and avoid the accessibility problems that medium and
    metropolitan cities face.
•   Supported Honduran government in the preparation of the National Strategy to Reduce Emissions
    from Transport in 2011. In 2010 CAI and the Centro Mario Molina (CMM) developed an Air
    Quality Management National Plan for the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s
    (SERNA) Centro de Estudio de Control de Contaminantes (CESCCO). This technical assistance
    was provided with support from the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) and the World
    Bank. As a continuation of this effort, the World Bank hired CAI in 2010-2011 to carry out a study
    to assess measures to reduce air pollution from the transport sector in Tegucigalpa. In November
    2010, the IDB approved a US$ 33 million loan for a Public Transportation Program for



                                                   29
    Tegucigalpa’s Central District, which was part of CAI’s study.
•   Assisted Mexican government in the development of a National Agenda for an Environmentally
    Sustainable Mobility as part of the Mexican National Development Plan 2013-2018; b)
    Recommendations to improve the “Clean Transport” and “Vehicle Substitution and Renewal
    Scheme” Programs, and c) Preparation of a Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions for Urban
    Freight Logistics in Mexico.
•   Coordinated policy dialogue in Belo Horizonte, Brazil to integrate climate change and sustainable
    transport concepts into the development of an integrated strategy to address land use and
    transportation planning in major transport corridors. Organized 3 clinics on land use and urban
    transport; provision of TA on densification and transit-oriented development along BRT corridors;
    and reviewed Belo Horizonte’s law to mitigate climate change in May 2011, which was eventually
    enacted.
•   Developed a Draft Regional Action Plan for Intergovernmental Cooperation on Air Pollution for
    Latin America and the Caribbean, in collaboration with the National Institute of Ecology and
    Climate Change of Mexico, under the guidance of UNEP. This document aims to build on previous
    made during the Forum of Ministers of Environment of Latin America and the Caribbean, to: a)
    establish the Intergovernmental Network on Air Pollution for Latin America and the Caribbean, and
    b) develop an action plan to guide its operation. CAI’s participation was to ensure climate change
    and sustainable considerations on the development of the regional action plan.
•   Prepared and disseminated the first regional report on air quality across Latin America. The report
    was released in Mexico City on April 23, 2013, and via webinar in May 9, 2013.
•   CAI and Clean Air Initiative for LAC co-founded and funded the organization the Sustainable
    Transport Award since 2010. CAI encouraged and incentivized the participation of STAQ cities and
    CAI-LAC network members in this award process as part of its strategy to advance the sustainable
    transport agenda in the region. Mexico City won in 2012, and Rosario won third place.
•   CAI is an active member of the Partnership on Sustainable Low Carbon Transport (SLoCaT). The
    Partnership’s overarching goal is to mobilize global support to reduce the growth of GHG
    emissions generated by land transport in developing countries by promoting more sustainable, low
    carbon transport. As part of its SloCat activities, CAI serves as a member of a multi-stakeholder
    Technical Working Group (TWG) that was formed to advise the United Nations Department for
    Economic and Social Affairs (UN-DESA). The TWG’s main activity was to provide feedback on a
    plan drafted by SLoCaT to the Executive Office of the Secretary-General on how to best coordinate
    stakeholder engagement on sustainable transport issues, particularly ground transport in the urban
    context. CAI participated in two workshops and provided commentary on the draft. The TWG
    submitted the draft plan in November 2012 and is currently reviewing the final draft for re-
    submission in June 2013. CAI has used its STAQ experiences to guide the feedback provided on
    this work plan.
•   Acted as a civil society organization observer for the LAC region at the Climate Investment Fund
    (CIF) for the period 2012-2015. CAI proposed that the CIF’s Clean Technology Fund (CTF)
    include black carbon related issues into its funding options, as SLCPs are a real concern for CAI-
    LAC network members. CAI was invited to prepare a paper on the topic to support its proposal for
    a CTF meeting in October 2013. CAI also provided expert technical review for project proposals
    and was able to influence at least one project – the Mexico EcoCasa project. As a result of CAI’s
    input, this project was redesigned to integrate a model to calculate transportation needs for buyers
    of low-income eco-friendly housing. Additionally, CAI disseminated lessons learned from the
    STAQ Program, particularly on challenges faced in accessing funding, as well as those faced during
    project implementation. CAI conducted two surveys conducted on the role of civil society in the
    CIF process among worldwide civil society organizations. CAI presented the final results of the
    surveys at the CIF civil society forum held in November 4, 2012 as part of a presentation entitled
    “Finding New Opportunities and Overcoming Barriers” to 125 attendees. Topics covered include
    addressing transparency issues, and programming sufficient resources for stakeholder engagement
    activities, communication strategies, outreach, and technical assistance.

Component 4. Project implementation and STAQ Program monitoring and support
Cost: US$834,196.16 or 105.6% of the appraisal estimate of US$790,000


                                                  30
Activities carried out, outputs and outcomes
This subcomponent was meant to provide tailor made technical assistance to participating cities and
continuous and structured monitoring, supervision and evaluation of the program’s impacts. This
included (i) the overall management of the STAQ Program, (ii) technical assistance to cities in project
design, preparation, implementation, supervision and evaluation, (iii) timely policy and technical
support when requested by participating cities, (iv) gathering and processing of data and information
from participating cities to prepare baseline and progress in project implementation, (v) the preparation
of data monitoring tools for reporting and dissemination, (vi) the development of guidelines and the
proposal of policies to institutionalize indicators for periodic and public reporting at city level, and (vii)
training activities for indicators measurement, monitoring and assessment.

All planned activities were substantially carried out and the expected outputs were largely achieved.
This included the following:
• Project management;
• Provision of on-demand technical assistance and support (for details see Component 2);
• Monitoring of sustainable transport and air quality initiatives in STAQ cities;
• Developed an Excel spreadsheet and a guidance note to measure ex-post assessments of transport
    interventions in GEF cities;
• Prepared STAQ website and city Web pages displaying a brief informational overview of each
    STAQ city, including economic data, and a variety of transport indicators, including data on
    emissions by source and pollutant;
• Conducted environmental impact assessments (GHG and local pollutants emissions) of Sustainable
    Urban Transport Interventions of the 14 GEF projects in 11 STAQ cities in Mexico, Argentina and
    Brazil. Assessments included ex-ante assessments on GHG and other local pollutant emissions as
    results of these interventions.
• Conducted a survey on the impact of GEF Projects in STAQ cities.




                                                     31
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
             Names                         Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
                                                                           Environmental
Paul Proce                                Co-TTL                  LCSEN
                                                                             Specialist
                                                                            Sr. Transport
Andres Pizarro                            Co-TTL                  LCSFT
                                                                             Specialist
                                                                           Lead Transport
Emmanuel James                            Co-TTL                  LCSFT
                                                                             Specialist
                                                                           Lead Transport
Jorge Rebelo                              Co-TTL                  LCSFT
                                                                             Specialist
Veronica Raffo                      Young Professional            LCSFT
Nicolas F. Estupinan                        JPA                   LCSFT
Elisabeth Goller                    Transport Specialist          LCSFT
Nelvia Hayme Diaz                Language program Assistant       LCSEN
Alan G. Caroll                       Operations Adviser           LCSQE
Jose M. Martinez                   Procurement Specialist         LCSPT
Alejandro Alcala Gerez                 Legal Counsel              LEGLA
Fabienne Mroczka                            FMS                   LCSFM

Supervision/ICR
Alejandro Alcala Gerez                 Senior Counsel             LEGES
                                                                           Sr. Transport
Elisabeth Goller                         TTL (Spn)                LCSTR
                                                                            Specialist
                                                                           Sr. Transport
Anca C Dumitrescu                        TTL (ICR)                LCSTR
                                                                            Specialist
 Keigsner Alfaro                Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
 Fabienne Mroczka              Financial Management Specialis     LCSFM
 Maria Catalina Ochoa
                                    Transport Specialist          LCSTR
Sepulveda
Veronica Ines Raffo            Senior Infrastructure Specialist   LCSTR
Jorge M. Rebelo                          Consultant               LCSTR
Lelia S. Werner                    Sr. Finance Assistant          CTRLN
Melanie Glass                            Consultant               LCSTR   ICR Co-Author
Katya Kuang Idba                         Consultant                       ICR Co-Author


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                    US$ Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                                    196.92


                                             32
  FY07                             40.64
  FY08                            120.03
                    Total:        357.59
Supervision & ICR                 328.87
                    Total:        686.46




                             33
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                     GEF Completion Report
                         Sustainable Transport and Air Quality (P096017)
                                      Contribution of the Recipient

Introduction and Role of the Clean Air Institute
A recent report from the MDBs to the G20 has highlighted: “Some regional projects have the
potential to be transformational in helping to provide the access to markets and essential services
critical for promoting inclusive and sustainable growth. Effective implementation of such projects
will catalyze more domestic resources and interest towards regional integration initiatives”. Also,
“regional projects tend to take longer and cost more to prepare. The report highlights the need to
“introduce incentives for staff to focus on leveraging rather than lending resources and to
undertake complex catalytic and regional projects.”6

This report describes the experience of the Clean Air Institute (CAI) in executing the Regional
Project of the Sustainable Transport and Air Quality Program (STAQ Program), implemented by
the World Bank with funding from the Global Environment Facility. The STAQ Program has
been an unprecedented effort for addressing urban transport and climate change issues at a Latin
American scale, combining local, national and regional efforts. The role of CAI was to provide
day-to-day coordination and technical support for the STAQ Program including, among other
responsibilities, implementation of regional activities and taking necessary steps to ensure
sustainability of relevant program activities.

As part of this story, there is a need to provide some background information about the historic
relationship between the World Bank and the Clean Air Institute (CAI). In the 1990s, the World
Bank provided support to Mexico City and Santiago de Chile to implement successful transport
and air quality projects that led to major interventions for addressing urban air pollution issues.
Realizing the importance of disseminating lessons learnt and catalyzing actions to face raising air
pollution challenges, the World Bank and six of the largest cities of the region launched the Clean
Air Initiative for Latin American Cities (CAI-LAC) 7 . The World Bank took responsibility to
operate CAI-LAC’s Technical Secretariat, which for several years was instrumental in channeling
technical assistance, training, regional workshops and other resources to support CAI-LAC
members to prepare and implement air quality improvement plans and projects.

In 2003, the World Bank and CAI-LAC members decided to move the CAI-LAC’s Technical
Secretariat away from the World Bank, aiming to strengthen its institutional framework and
regional ownership, as well as to attract new funding for ensuring financial sustainability. In July
2005, the World Bank called for proposals to host the “Clean Air Initiative Center” and as a result
of a competitive process, the Breakthrough Technologies Institute (BTI) was selected. In April



6
  Infrastructure Action Plan. 2012 Follow-Up Report. Submission to the G20 by the MDB Working Group On
Infrastructure. April 2012.
7
  Original CAI-LAC members include Buenos Aires, Lima, Mexico City, Santiago, São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Bogota also joined later.


                                                      34
2006, BTI facilitated the incorporation of the Clean Air Institute as a non-profit 501 (c) 3
organization under the District of Colombia’s laws.

Although this process of moving CAI-LAC’s Technical Secretariat didn’t imply any transference
of budget nor resources to BTI, the World Bank issued on July 2006 a press release stating: “The
World Bank will continue to be engaged with the Clean Air Initiative agenda through investment
operations related to urban transport, energy, and environment; and through development of
policy lending operations directly related to enhancing air quality management in the region.”8
To this end, in 2006, the World Bank selected CAI to execute the Regional Project of the STAQ
Program, which was based on discussions with the National Executing Agencies, as well as with
participating cities. Key technical agencies and donors in the region also endorsed the Clean Air
Institute to execute regional activities. However, original expectations from the World Bank staff
to get the STAQ Program approved in the second half of 2006 didn’t materialize.

Finally, the World Bank and the Clean Air Institute were able to sign a Grant Agreement in
February 2009 for executing the Regional Project. However, CAI was still required to sign a
memorandum of understanding (MoU) with one of the National Executing Agencies (NEA) as a
condition to declare the grant effectiveness. None of the NEAs had formalized their own grant
agreements by then, which was out of the control of CAI. The Project became effective on June
25, 2009 and received its first disbursement of US$ 300,000 on August 3, 2009. However, CAI
was not allowed to work on components 2 and 4 until signing a cooperation agreement with at
least one NEA, which was achieved in December 2009 with Mexico. Subsequently, the
memorandums of understanding with Argentina and Brazil were signed in March 2010 and
October 2010. Conditions for a full implementation of the overall STAQ Program were met in
late 2010. As a result of the prolonged delay of the STAQ Program approval and start up, interest
from potential donors in the Program rapidly diminished. In addition, it also resulted in changes
of priorities at the national and local level in participating countries and cities which later on
impacted project implementation.

Despite these delays and obstacles, the Regional Project has significantly contributed to foster
sustainable transport and climate change at a regional level, in compliance to the objectives of
both the Regional Project and the overall STAQ Program. In addition, CAI became a fully
independent and internationally recognized organization that has shown a strong resilience and
taken important steps to ensure sustainability of its program and the achievement of its mission.

Implementation of the Regional Project and the Role of the STAQ program
This and following sections highlights key achievements, and summarizes important lessons
learnt, challenges, and barriers experienced by the Clean Air Institute during the implementation
of the STAQ Program’s Regional Project.




8
 http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/COUNTRIES/LACEXT/0,,print:Y~isCURL:Y
~contentMDK:20993269~menuPK:258568~pagePK:2865106~piPK:2865128~theSitePK:258554
,00.html



                                               35
Component 1: Evaluation and improvement of existing methodologies to assess and
    demonstrate benefits of transport interventions.
Key achievements
As detailed in Annex 2, CAI successfully identified, evaluated, and improved access to
methodologies, and approaches to assess impacts and demonstrate benefits of transport
interventions, engaging multiple partners and leveraging additional sources of funding. CAI
implemented a broad dialogue with key experts and organizations involved in developing and
implementing transport intervention assessment tools. In addition, CAI associated with various
organizations to implement methodologies in particular projects and locations, including a co-
benefits approach that went beyond the original scope of the Program that was limited to assess
greenhouse emissions.

Significant highlights from this Component were the implementation of an Integrated
Environmental Strategies approach to assess emissions, ambient air, health and economic impacts
of transport interventions from a co-benefits perspective, linked to assessments of major transport
projects in Bogota and Medellin. This included partnerships with the Inter-American
Development Bank, the Government of Bogota, local academic institutions, the Aburrá Valley
Metropolitan Authority, and the US Environmental Protection Agency. CAI was also involved in
an international collaboration coordinated by WRI to develop the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Mitigation Accounting Initiative (under final review at time of writing). CAI provided technical
input and reviewed chapters on baseline emissions estimations, ex-ante and ex-poste emissions
estimations and drafted a transport case study for calculating emissions from the implementation
of a BRT. CAI also pilot tested the Protocol in Medellin. The protocol will provide the first
framework for assessing GHG impacts from policies and the aim is for it to be adopted as an
international standard for such assessments, supporting developing countries.

Lessons learnt
During the STAQ Program preparations in 2006, the Bank originally detected a lack of coherent
and consistent methodologies for estimating GHG emission reduction from transport measures.
By 2009/2010 when the project implementation finally began this need had evolved and changed
significantly since the initial inception of the Program in 2006. However, CAI took advantage of
multiple existing discussions and developments among the numerous entities interested in
addressing this methodology gap, as well as the absence of consistent data to evaluate climate and
air pollution impacts of transport investments and land-use strategies. CAI activities have
provided valuable outputs for the identification and implementation of “internationally
recognized and demonstrated methodologies suitable for project assessment and integrated city-
wide assessment of benefits and co-benefits of urban transport investments in Latin American
cities”, as well as a clearer understanding of their scope and limitations. Furthermore, these
lessons learned on assessment methodologies enabled CAI to become a key partner in national
initiatives for preparing Transport NAMAs (like in the case of Mexico funded by GIZ and the
USAID) and a variety of projects in which an Integrated Environmental Strategies approach is
needed (like in Mexico and Medellín, funded by the federal and local governments, respectively).




                                                36
Component 2: strengthening planning and implementation capacity of local and
    national level institutions.
Key Achievements
CAI delivered a successful program of capacity strengthening which supported the specific
objectives of the component as well as two key programmatic Objectives 2 and 3 (see Section 3).
Significant highlights from those listed in Annex 2 were reaching more than 1,300 individuals
across the region with CAI’s capacity strengthening program through a mixture of workshops,
hands-on training clinics, on-line webinars, and a major regional conference, all covering a range
of sustainable transport, climate change and air quality topics; and successfully provided to World
Bank and participating cities with substantial specialized technical assistant requirements of the
Component to help them negotiate obstacles and move forward more effectively with their
sustainable transport agendas, most significantly, for example, with being instrumental in the
enacting of a law to mitigate climate change in Belo Horizonte and facilitating access to Clean
Technology Funds for introducing natural gas buses and refueling stations at the Lincoln Ruiz
Cortines’ BRT corridor in Monterrey.

In addition to the work completed the following activities are those that are continuing beyond
the STAQ program and are relevant for continuing to implement the requirements of this
Component whilst ensuring the longer term sustainability of CAI:
• Integration of long term sustainability measures to strength and improve the Mexican
     Program “Transporte Limpio” by the creation of a national network of new trainers on eco-
     driving techniques through the implementation of the Efficient Drivers Program (CONDUCE
     Program) pilot phase. CAI intends to expand this initiative over the next 12 to 18 months and
     beyond with governmental and private funders, with targeted focus on Mexico and Colombia
     in the short term.
• Partnering with IADB, particularly with the Inter-American Institute for Economic and Social
     Development (INDES) training program: “Leading the sustainable development of Latin
     American cities: Program for sub-national management teams”, to develop the module on
     “The environmental challenge of sustainable development”.
• Working with UNEP and the Intergovernmental Network on Air Pollution for Latin America
     and the Caribbean, strengthening capacities to improve air quality management and related
     issues in the region including a strong component on sustainable transport.
Lessons learned
The training activities as envisioned by the Program had been a comprehensive “train the
trainers” approach, addressing a variety of technical subjects. CAI began to work with GIZ to
develop such a training program, but the Bank’s implementation team provided directions to scale
down this approach and, as a result, CAI delivered a less comprehensive training program as side
events to other conferences. These programs were one-off events that lacked continuity or
comprehensiveness and so to provide a more structured training framework. CAI was also able to
develop and launch successfully an interactive Knowledge Platform accessible through CAI’s
website.

With respect to the technical assistance program (TA), the approach outlined in the GEF STAQ
project document was that CAI would build up a framework of experience through its TA



                                                37
activities that would form the basis for knowledge sharing activities which CAI would deliver. In
practice, however, the anticipated role of TA in fostering a unique frame of reference for
knowledge-sharing was not fully materialized, for a variety of reasons. First, CAI were requested
to limit TA to only the GEF-funded activities of the country projects and should not be involved
in technical assistance for the IBRD components of the country projects. Second, the local
authorities in charge of the implementation of the GEF country projects did not have a clear
understanding of the role of the Clean Air Institute and the Regional Project to the extent that it
was perceived as a duplication of the country projects activities. Third, the projects of the
participating cities in the GEF STAQ program ended up being rather small. As a result, most of
the TA provided was useful for specific cities and projects, but did not have a critical mass of
cities to allow for the generation of a regional approach for a knowledge-sharing program.



Component 3: Fostering the adoption of regional, national and local policies that
    mainstream climate change and air quality considerations into transport, land-
    use, and energy planning.

Key achievements
Conditions that led to the creation of CAI-LAC in the late nineties drastically changed in recent
years with the emergence of a variety of organizations and movements dealing with climate
change and related issues, which have attracted the attention of local and national governments,
as well as the multilaterals and other donors. In addition, climate change issues increased in
importance in lieu of air quality which ceased to be a substantial part of the agenda until its very
recent reemergence. Despite this new arena, the Clean Air Institute has been able to expand and
strengthen the CAI-LAC Network. CAI has also played a key role in pushing forward and
building partnerships and collaborative efforts with other regional and global efforts. For
example, CAI is working as a Non State Partner of the Climate and Clean Air Coalition
partnership (CCAC); has supported UNEP in the implementation of the Intergovernmental
Network on Air Pollution for Latin America and the Caribbean, including the preparation of its
Proposed Regional Action Plan, which includes a substantial chapter on sustainable transport and
air quality; was selected as one of the four Civil Society Observers to the Climate Investment
Fund (CIF), which promote policies and actions leading towards more energy-efficient and
cleaner urban transport systems in Latin American cities; and is also a member of the SLOCAT
network and of the United Nation’s Secretary General Work Group on Sustainable Transport.

A number of activities at regional, national and local scales are continuing beyond the STAQ
program, ensuring the long term sustainability of CAI:
• Preparation of a book on air quality in Latin America, which is expected to be launched in
    early 2014 in an international workshop to be held in Lima under the auspices of the World
    Bank.
• Development of the National Agenda for an Environmentally Sustainable Mobility in Mexico
    as part of the Mexican National Development Plan 2013-2018. The CAI was instrumental in
    the development of this Plan and is involved in its implementation in the administration
    2013-2018.



                                                38
•   Preparation of a Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Action for Urban Freight Logistics in
    Mexico. This project is funded primarily with MLED and SEMARNAT and is due to
    continue into 2014.
• Assessment of TDM policies for the Valley of Mexico Metropolitan Zone and the Valley of
    Toluca Metropolitan Zone in Mexico.
• The third phase of the development of an integrated environmental strategy assessment for
    the Sustainable Urban Mobility Plan in the metropolitan area of Medellin will be developed
    in early 2014.
Lessons learned
The objective was to build awareness and foster policy dialogue at the national and local levels
involving key government decision makers and other stakeholders, to advance the agenda for
introduction of incentives for more rational use of motor vehicles and facilitate introduction of
more fuel efficient and cleaner technologies.

This component faced three key constraints. First, GEF funding of the CAI-LAC network or
activities that could be said to be building the CAI-LAC network was quite limited. Second, this
component required the services of an outreach and communications specialist for the Program,
but this was never approved by the TTL of the Regional Project. Third, the appropriate niche for
the CAI-LAC network was still to be understood due to the emergence of a number of initiatives
and networks in Latin America focusing on Sustainable Transport, including, the CAF mobility
observatories, the Environmentally Sustainable Transport Forum for Latin America, the SLOCAT
network, the EMBARQ-related Centers for Sustainable Transport, and others.

Despite these constraints, the Clean Air Institute sought to expand and strengthen the CAI-LAC
Network. After successful implementation of the Regional Conference on Sustainable Transport,
Climate Change and Air Quality in Rosario, Argentina in 2011, CAI launched a “Call for Joint
Regional Action to Improve Urban Air Quality whilst Mitigating Climate Change,” seeking to
build on the foundations established by the original Clean Air Initiative, and to consolidate the
efforts made over recent years to expand the CAI-LAC Network. 35 organizations responded to
this call and became members of the new phase of the CAI-LAC network.

Component 4, Project implementation monitoring and support.
Key achievements
This component was intended to provide operational stability to the overall implementation of the
GEF STAQ program by providing project implementation monitoring and support for
implementation of particular components. In practice Bank TTLs were already carrying out
standard implementation support and supervision of the individual country projects. CAI’s initial
efforts to carry out supervision activities were deemed a duplication and inefficient use of
resources. It was decided that the TTLs would carry out implementation support activities, and
provide regular input – in the form of Aide Memoires and Implementation Status Reports – to the
Clean Air Institute to allow for a regional overview and coordination. However, this information
was not supplied on a regular basis, so CAI was unable to provide consistent programmatic
monitoring to the GEF STAQ program.




                                                39
CAI provided outstanding support to the World Bank in supporting the assessment of the STAQ
Program activities in each of the cities and countries. CAI conducted environmental impact
assessments (GHG and local pollutants emissions) of Sustainable Urban Transport Interventions
of 14 GEF projects in 11 STAQ cities in Mexico, Argentina and Brazil. This helped the cities to
assess the potential impact of their projects and to report these findings to the GEF. CAI also
established a web-page that provides information on the cities which took part in the STAQ
Program and tracks the individual projects by country (as reported by the cities).

With a view to the sustainability of CAI, the IADB’s Office of Evaluation and Oversight (OVE)
has now hired CAI to provide technical expertise to evaluate impacts on greenhouse gas
emissions from selected transport projects, as part of major review on the climate change impacts
of IADB portfolio.

Lessons learned
This component suffered from a number of constraints. First, the design of the component was
too similar with that of Component 2. The distinction between efforts to strengthen planning and
implementation capacity of local and national institutions and the provision of “tailor made”
technical assistance to participating cities was somewhat artificial and difficult to maintain,
particularly given the relatively narrow scope of the windows under implementation and the
distinction established by the supervising TTLs that the technical assistance to cities in project
design, preparation, implementation, supervision, and evaluation, was only appropriately given to
the GEF-financed portions of those projects. Second, the operating costs assigned to the CAI
from project resources were too small to ensure adequate implementation and appropriate
compliance with World Bank fiduciary requirements.
Compliance with the objectives of the Project and key advances and developments
As described in the main body of the ICR there were three objectives as well as the four
operational components of the Regional STAQ Program. With no direct relationship between the
objectives and the components this matrix to some degree hindered the clear implementation of
the program with competing priorities across the Objectives and Components. This section
briefly presents the main achievements of the regional project in accomplishing its objectives.
Achievement of Objective 1. Establish a network of local and national government stakeholders,
international organizations and private sector entities to promote policies and actions leading
towards more energy-efficient and cleaner urban transport systems in Latin American cities.
In partnership with the CAI-LAC Network the CAI has been able to position air quality and
sustainable transport in the forefront of the environmental debate in Latin America, including the
importance of linking air pollution reduction measures to measures designed for climate change
mitigation. For example, CAI published “Air Quality in Latin America: An Overview. 2012
Edition” with an official launch in Mexico in April 23, 2013 attracting 60 participants from a
range of governmental and non-governmental organizations within Mexico, international
organizations and significant press coverage at a national and international level. CAI is also
preparing a draft book on air quality improvement measures in cooperation with the World Bank
which gathered experts from 7 cities across the region and members of the CAI-LAC Network to
pull together experiences on air pollution monitoring, dissemination and air quality management



                                                40
planning, including tackling emissions through the implementation of sustainable transport and
linking emissions reductions actions to GHG emissions actions.

As a civil society organization observer for Latin America and the Caribbean at the CIF 2012-
2015, the CAI has taken a leading role among the civil society observers to disseminate the
lessons learned from the implementation of the STAQ Program regarding the challenges that
countries and cities face accessing funding and implementing of their national and local
programs.

Achievement of Objective 2. Assist cities in developing sustainable urban transport strategies that
integrate climate change and air quality components.
The key PDO for this component was “To improve the capacity of cities to quantify the impacts
of transport policies on climate change and air pollution emissions”. Despite the challenges
described in Section 0, this objective was largely achieved through a series of activities under
CAI’s training and technical assistance program (T&TA). This program was comprised of tailor
made technical assistance, “face to face” training workshops and an interactive knowledge
platform accessible via CAI’s website.

Results from the T&TA program accompanied by intensive policy dialogues conducted by CAI
with STAQ program cities, others in the Region, and international organizations, allowed CAI to
successfully promote the integration of strategies to reduce greenhouse gases emissions and local
pollutants through sustainable transport and urban development strategies in countries and cities
detailed in Annex 2.

Currently, the Clean Air Institute is partnering with the Inter-American Institute for Economic
and Social Development (INDES) training program of IDB: “Leading the sustainable
development of Latin American cities: Program for sub-national management teams”, to develop
the module on “The environmental challenge of sustainable development”. The first face to face
training session will be held in November, 2013 and a one year training program will be
implemented in 2014 within the LAC region.

Achievement of Objective 3. Improving cities capacity to quantify the impacts of transport
policies on climate change and air pollution emissions.
This Objective overlaps Component 1, 3 and 4. As discussed elsewhere (Annex 2, Section 00 and
Section 0) CAI has developed specific methodological approaches to assess the greenhouse gas
and air quality emission reduction benefits of different urban transport investments; assisted with
international collaborations to develop a new assessment protocol; provided in person and online
training; undertaken assessment of GHG and air pollution impacts from GEF transport projects;
provided an online platform for information on emissions assessments, available tools and models
and an emissions factor database amongst others.

Bank performance
CAI would like to thank the World Bank staff for its continuous support for implementing the
regional project and its coordination. However, some aspects could have been improved to
strengthen the Program.




                                                41
The program itself was innovative, but proved to be difficult to implement, because of the need to
coordinate different teams with different agendas, and due to a conflict between the original high
level regional objectives and the component-based day-to-day requirements and activities which
were given more importance by the Bank. The program was also steered by the Bank towards
working on completing and improving day-to-day operational tasks. This meant that there were
limited resources, both time and funding, for addressing and implementing the higher level
Objectives and enabling the Program to foster development in a more strategic manner.

Outreach and communication activities should have been key to maintaining the coherence of the
program across the four different projects, World Bank, and national and international actors.
The project was designed without such a sub-component or specialist, and the need for such a
specialist was not recognized by the Bank. The lack of attention to outreach and communications
constrained the project from generating a sense of ownership of the lessons learned, knowledge
and experience gained, tools and other products developed within the participating cities and
organizations of the Program. Consequently, ensuring a long term sustainability of the Program
and engagement of additional funding was difficult.

As requested by and agreed with the TTLs of the STAQ program, the implementation of the
Component 4 of the STAQ regional project focused in the assessment of GHG emissions
reductions of the STAQ country projects which was very important to fulfill the reporting
requirements of the GEF implementing agency. However, the major contribution of the Regional
Project should have been an overall assessment of the technical execution of the Program to allow
the development of wider policy analysis, scale-up of potentially transformational projects, and a
long-term strategy to design and implement sustainable transport, climate change and air quality
related investments in the region. Providing such responsibility to the Program would have
allowed for wider reaching impacts and greater mobilization of the private sector financial
support.

Furthermore, operating costs assigned to the CAI from project resources were too small to ensure
adequate implementation of the project and appropriate compliance with World Bank fiduciary,
administrative and technical reporting requirements. This is particularly important considering
that CAI was set up external from the World Bank with no resources. Considering the size of the
grant for the Regional Project we consider that this was an unnecessary use of GEF funds and
could be better thought out for similar grants in the future. It is recognized that the set up of this
Program was unusual for the World Bank but an amendment of administrative and technical
reporting requirements to match the type of work being undertaken would have allowed more
resources to be spent on implementation.

CAI Performance
Throughout the implementation of this Project CAI has been able to put together a highly
qualified staff and an extended network of professionals in air quality, climate change,
sustainable transport, project management, operations and financing. This team has proven its
capabilities by driving the Project to a successful conclusion while finding new allies to provide
continuity to the Clean Air Institute programs.




                                                 42
The CAI has also adapted to changes in the international sustainable transport arena since the
original inception of the Program to ensure that the Program continued to provide important
contributions to the region whilst avoiding duplication of effort already being carried out by
others once the Program was finally realized.

These professionals also managed to obtain thorough knowledge of World Bank guidelines, rules
and procedures. This knowledge and experience gained has allowed the Clean Air Institute to
successfully prepare proposals and negotiate Grants with donors like USAID, US-Mexico Border
Environment Cooperation Commission (BECC) and the Environmental Protection Agency of the
United States (EPA), the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), United Nations (UN) and
local and private partners.

Conclusions
The STAQ Program was a pioneering effort in the transport sector of Latin America, with
ambitious objectives and an integrated vision of the sustainable transport and climate change
agenda. Its implementation represented new opportunities and challenges for all partners of the
Program, including the World Bank, National Executing Agencies, the cities and the Clean Air
Institute. A very important lesson learned from this project is that the definition of the objectives
and indicators needs to be in line with what can reasonably be expected and must show a certain
degree of flexibility to allow the Project to focus on delivering the expected outcomes rather than
specific indicators as well as to adapt to changes in needs of the countries and cities.

At the closure of the STAQ Program CAI is well equipped with a variety of knowledge products
and services, as well as with a highly qualified staff and a broad network of consultants and
supporters to implement its mission and ensure its continuity and sustainability. CAI has
substantially expanded its sources of funding and, for the period July to December 2013, its
project portfolio represents an income of over $800,000 with new contracts already inline for
completion for 2014.

The Clean Air Institute is playing a leadership role on expanding air quality efforts at a regional
scale. Under the auspices of UNEP, the CAI in collaboration of the Mexico’s National Institute of
Ecology and Climate Change have drafted a Regional Action Plan for Intergovernmental
Cooperation on Air Pollution for Latin America and the Caribbean, in consultation with the
Regional Intergovernmental Network on Air Pollution. The Forum of Ministers of Environment
of the Latin America and the Caribbean Region has endorsed this plan in their recent biannual
meeting, setting up a common agenda for the entire region to address air pollution and related
issued from a cobenefits perspective.

Sustainable transport and its links to climate change mitigation and air pollution improvement is a
key thematic area and major efforts are being conducted in different cities to serve as models to
foster regional efforts. CAI activities are taking advantage on the experience, approaches, tools
and multistakeholder network developed under the STAQ Program.

CAI is keen to expand its work on Freight Management. With support from USAID through
Mexico’s Program for Low Emission Development and SEMARNAT, CAI is implementing a
second of three phases for the preparation of a Freight Transport NAMA focused on logistics.


                                                 43
CAI is also finalizing the design of a MRV for Mexico’s Clean Transport Program and Fleet
Modernization Program, funded by GIZ. In addition, CAI is successfully implementing with the
Mexico-US Border Environmental Commission and SEMARNAT a training Ppogram on Eco-
driving focused in the Northern Border, which is aimed to be expanded to the rest of the country.
Discussions are being held with the “Corporación del Fondo Vial” to implement this program in
Colombia.

Other ongoing works include collaborations with the Mario Molina Center related to city wide air
quality plans and travel demand management policies, starting with the Metropolitan Areas of the
Toluca and the Valley of Mexico and aiming to expand this collaboration to other Mexican
metropolis. CAI is also in process to materialize collaborations with UNEP to address black
carbon emissions and to provide cities with guidance to formulate air quality management plans
focused on cobenefits, as well as to provide technical assistance to design and implement specific
policies and projects.

These and other efforts, complemented with CAI activities as a Member of the Climate and Clean
Air Coalition, observer of the CIF and other worldwide initiatives, are strengthening CAI’s
financial sustainability and its strategic role to develop and conduct regional processes to improve
air quality and mitigate climate change, by enabling, supporting and complementing national and
local efforts.

Final comments/Comments of the recipient on the Bank’s ICR
Two of the three Regional Project’s Objectives were fully met, whilst one was partially achieved,
resulting in this project earning the rating of “Moderately Satisfactory” (section 46 of ICR). This
rating takes no account of the significant work undertaken to achieve compliance with the four
Components despite the challenges highlighted in this document, with a significant number of
these Component activities not fitting within the framework of the Objectives. Completion of the
Components, however, was the day-to-day focus of the Bank and as such the rating should
include achievements within this aspect of the Program. The work within the Components made
considerable contribution to advancing sustainable transport in the region, and the Project was
able to identify strategic opportunities in on-going local and international initiatives and
institutions to partner with leading the Project to a successful implementation. Consequently, we
disagree with the World Bank final project rating of “Moderately Satisfactory”.




                                                44
                                                   Annex 5. Knowledge Platform Information

 PDOs
PDO 1                                                       Knowledge Platform Information

                                             - CAI-LAC – New Governance Documents
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/ial/

                                             - CAI-LAC – New Webpages
Establish a
 Network




                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/ial/

                                             - Preparation of AQ in LAC Report
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/calidaddelaireamericalatina/?pag=23&sec=289
Cities with enhanced capacities PDO 2




                                        - Emissions Assessments Knowledge Platform(Helpdesk)
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/helpdesk/

                                        - 11 Policy Papers
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/cops/documentos-de-politica/

                                        - Communities of Practice/Webinars
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/cops/
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/cops/webinars/

                                        - Data Base of Regional Experts
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/AsistenciaTecnica/

                                        - STAQ cities webpage
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/cai-f2.php?id_sitio=1&p_idioma=ESP&idp=39
 Cities applying PDO 3




                                             - Emissions Assessments Knowledge Platform
                                        (see Helpdesk)
assessment tools




                                             - EF Database
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/factoresdeemisionLAC/


                                             - On demand TA
                                        http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/AsistenciaTecnica/asistencia_contact.php




                                                                         45
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

   -   Project Appraisal Document and Aide Memoires of preparation and supervision
       missions, and ISRs in WBDoc
   -   CAI Reports and Papers http://www.cleanairinstitute.org/cops/documentos-de-politica/




                                           46
