Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14490-BO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOLIVIA
RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 15, 1995
Country Department III
Environment and Urban Development Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit = Boliviano
US$1 = 4.74 Bolivianos (March 31, 1995)
All figures in U.S. dollars unless otherwise noted
Weights and Measures
Metric
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DINASBA              National Directorate of Water and Sanitation
IDB                  International Development Bank
NFRD                 National Fund for Regional Development
NSUA                 National Secretariat for Urban Affairs
OPEC Fund            Fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PROSABAR             Project Management Unit within DINASBA
UNASBA               Departmental Water and Sanitation Unit
SIF                  Social Investment Fund
PPL                  Popular Participation Law
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme



Bolivia
Rural Water and Sanitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Credit and Project Summary ..................................                                  iii
I. Background ..................................I
A. Socioeconomic setting ..................................1
B. Legal and institutional framework ..................................1
C. Rural water and sanitation ............................. , , , , , ,   .    .    .    3
D. Lessons learned .............................4
II. The Project .............................5
A. Objective .............................5
B. Description ............................5
C. Costs ............................7
D. Economics ..7..........................7
E. Financing ..9..........................9
F. Environment ............................                                             10
G. Risks ............................ 11
III. Project Implementation ............................                                        12
A. Arrangements ............................                                            12
B. Selection criteria ............................. 13
C. Supervision ............................                                             13
D. Procurement ..........                                                               13
E. Disbursement ..........                                                              15
F. Audits .....................                                                         16
G. Reporting .....................                                                      16
IV. Agreements and Recommendation .,                                                            17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Bolivia from March 27 to April 7, 1995.
The mission was comprised of Messrs./Mmes. Abel Mejia, Caroline van den Berg, Eid Nouhra, Miriam Vasquez
(LA3EU); Jennifer Sara, Phillipe Auffret, Marco Quiroga (TWUWS); Mary L. Gonzalez (LATEN); Wendy
Quarry, and Roger Young (Consultants). Gianni Brizzi and Jennifer Sara were responsible for project preparation
until October 1994. Jose Decker (Coordinator), Alfonso Alvdstegui, Lourdes Elena Ruiz, Victor Moscoso, and
Abraham L6pez comprised the project preparation team in Bolivia. Vijay Jagananathan (TWLUWS) and Alex
Bakalian (LAIEU) are peer reviewers. The Sector Division Chief is Eugene D. McCarthy, the Project Advisor is
Robert Crown, and the Department Director is Paul Isenman.



Annexes
1. Bank Loans/ IDA Credits to Bolivia ..........................................                                                                                                                   21
2.     Experience from Previous Projects and Lessons Learned ..........................................                                                                                            22
3. Water and Sanitation Sector ..........................................                                                                                                                          24
4. Institutional Arrangements ..........................................                                                                                                                             25
5. Technology Options ..........................................                                                                                                                                    27
6. Project Design ..........................................                                                                                                                                       31
7. Technical Assistance ..........................................                                                                                                                                  35
8. Detailed Project Cost ..........................................                                                                                                                                42
9. Indigenous and Gender Issues ..........................................                                                                                                                         44
10. Economic Analysis ..........................................                                                                                                                                   50
11. Revenue Projections ..........................................                                                                                                                                  63
12. Eligibility Criteria ..........................................                                                                                                                                 67
13. Project Flows ..........................................                                                                                                                                       69
14. Implementation Manual Outline ..........................................                                                                                                                       74
15. Reporting ..........................................                                                                                                                                           77
16. Supervision ..........................................                                                                                                                                          79
17. Disbursement Schedule ..........................................                                                                                                                               81
18. Monitoring Indicators ..........................................                                                                                                                               82
19. Documents in Project Files ..........................................                                                                                                                          86
Maps ..........................................                                                                                                                                                    87
IBRD 27093



- iii -
Bolivia
Rural Water and Sanitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Bolivia.
Benificiary:         Small rural communities throughout the country.
Executing
agency:              The National Directorate for Water and Sanitation (DINASBA), the main
institution for the water sector, will be responsible for overall project
implementation. DINASBA will also manage the institutional component of the
project. The Social Investment Fund (SIF) will manage the investment component
of the project.
Amount:              SDR 13.4 million (US$20 million equivalent) including up to SDR 1.13 million to
be financed retroactively.
Terms:               Standard International Development Association (IDA) terms, with 40 years'
maturity and 10 years' grace.
Service charge:      0.75 percent, less any waiver.
Commitmentfee:      0.50 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Financing plan:      See para. 37.
Poverty category:    Since poverty alleviation is the main goal of the project, it targets the poorest rural
Bolivians, those in the highlands of the Sierra and Andean Valles, where the
population is entirely indigeneous totaling baout 3.7 million (either Aymara or
Quechua). The project will focus on the mobilization of communities involved and
on the active particiaption of women in the planning, execution, and operation of
water and sanitation facilities in all departments of the country.
Rate of return:     The internal economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be 13 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 14490-BO
Maps:               IBRD 27093
Project Identification
Number:              BO-PA-6206






I. Background
A.     Socioeconomic setting
1.     Bolivia's poor have borne the burden of the economic austerity programs of the past nine years.
The economic growth of the past five years, with per capita income increasing by one percent a year, has
not reduced poverty levels-more than 70 percent of the population still lives below the poverty line.
Despite the economic reforms made since the adoption of a new constitution in 1985, the country remains
one of the poorest in Latin America. Inequalities persist within the overall population and between urban
and rural dwellers. Health, nutrition, literacy, and water and sanitation indicators, among others, are still
very low. A recent report from the United Nations International Fund for Agricultural Development found
that 97 percent of the rural population-more than 3 million people-is living below the poverty line.
2.     The current administration supports the sound macroeconomic policies initiated by previous
administrations to accelerate growth and to reduce poverty, but it recognizes that high growth will not
reduce poverty unless its benefits are distributed equitably. Reforms were introduced in April 1994 to
achieve short-term improvements in the living standards of the poor, particularly in rural areas. The
Popular Participation Law is changing dramatically the allocation of resources among municipalities-an
unprecedented step toward more equitable and efficient use of fiscal resources.
3.     But the economy remains fragile. In 1994 the fiscal deficit-at 3.2 percent of gross domestic
product (GDP)-was significantly lower than in 1993. Yet, the external position is not strong, with the
trade balance recording a large deficit in 1994-the twelve-month current account deficit was 10 percent of
GDP at the end of 1994. The economy is also vulnerable to exogenous factors. Adverse changes in
international commodity prices and external aid had a severe impact on the economy, and this impact is felt
mostly among the poor, particularly in rural areas. Economic hardships and widespread poverty continue to
induce urbanization. Population growth in rural Bolivia has stagnated, while the urban population grows by
4 percent a year. As a consequence, the rural population comprised 41 percent of the country's total
population in 1993, from 59 percent in 1970.
B.     Legal and institutionalframework
4.     A major institutional restructuring of the water and sanitation sector was initiated in 1991. The
government removed itself from service delivery functions, previously under the Corporacion de Aguas
and the Directorate of Environmental Sanitation of the Ministry of Health, by transferring most activities
related to construction, human resources development, and service administration to the private sector and
nongovernmental organizations. In 1993 the government consolidated the responsibility for leading the
sector into the National Directorate for Water and Sanitation (DINASBA) in the National Secretariat of
Urban Affairs, under the Ministry of Human Development. At the department level, regional development
corporations, to be replaced by departmental governments as of January 1996 when the new
Decentralization Law enters into effect, created local water and sanitation units.
5.     DINASBA, created in November 1991, is the main institution for water, sewerage, and solid waste
services. Its responsibilities include prioritizing projects at the national level, preparing national plans and



-2 -
investment programs, coordinating regional and local programs, issuing and implementing governnent
financial policies, overseeing standards and norms, and promoting institutional development. DINASBA is
a weak institution and lacks the resources to formulate policies and to coordinate sector entities. It has
fourteen employees comprising two managers who are financed by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and other professionals with short-term contracts at salaries averaging US$300 to
US$400 a month. The project will support. technical assistance to strengthen DINASBA, leading to its
integration into the civil service program of the Government of Bolivia.
6.     The current administration has considerably reduced the investment financing role of the regional
development corporations, designating the provision of technical assistance to local governments through
Unidades de Saneamiento Basico (UNASBA). The corporations have been strengthening these units so
that they can implement national policies and sector strategies, formulate and prioritize plans and programs
at the department level, assist municipalities and local communities in designing and implementing
investment projects, and assist local organizations in the operations and maintenance of water and
sanitation facilities.
7.     Most government funding of water supply and sanitation programs is handled through two
financial intermediaries, the Social Investment Fund (SIF) and the National Fund of Regional Development
(NFRD). The SIF is responsible for administering government transfers to communities with fewer than
5,000 inhabitants. These transfers mainly originate from external resources and are generally in the form of
grants, consistent with the fund's mandate of promoting socioeconomic development through social
investments, including health, education, water, and sanitation. The NFRD is responsible for financing
investment projects in urban areas by providing loans to municipalities and municipal utilities, with
possible backing by the corresponding regional development corporation, or departmental government after
January 1996, when the municipalities lack creditworthiness. NFRD loans are often combined with
government matching grants for investment projects responding to specific priorities. Both funds are
supported by the International Development Agency (IDA).
8.     Bolivia launched a second-generation reform program in 1994. Capitalization and popular
participation underpin an ambitious strategy to remove the remaining structural constraints and to achieve
more rapid and equitable economic growth. These two elements represent a fundamental change in the
regulatory framework of public services, and the mandate of DINASBA and other sector entities should be
revised accordingly.
9.     A Sector Regulation Law was enacted in October 1994. This law proposes the creation of
independent sectoral regulatory institutions, under the Ministry of Economic Development, to promote the
competitiveness of key economic sectors and public utilities. The regulatory entity for water and sanitation
services, still to be created, could represent a major step toward modernizing the sector, since it will
provide a legal framework for a more efficient operation and allocation of resources, including private
sector participation. According to the law, the main responsibilities of the regulatory institutions will be to
oversee the quality of service provision, to approve service rates according to specific sector regulations, to
grant concessions for the provision of water and sanitation services, to process complaints from customers
and apply fines to utility operators, to advise the government on sector laws and decrees, and to prepare,
for executive approval, regulations, and technical norms.
10.    The Popular Participation Law (Ley 1551), passed in April 1994, to decentralize financial
resources and political power, is radically altering the powers and responsibilities of local governments. As
a result of the enactment of this law more than 200 new municipalities in rural areas were created for the
purpose of participating in the benefits of the revenue-sharing agreement provided by the law. This law also



-3 -
sets forward procedures for communities to obtain legal status as Organizaciones Territoriales de Base,
through which communities are organized according to their social and cultural heritage. Prior to the law,
there were only 100 municipalities. The law also transferred 20 percent of fiscal resources to
municipalities, to be spent according to an annual operating plan cleared by the regional development
corporations, approved by the central government, and under the supervision of Comites de Vigilancia
comprising representatives of the Organizaciones Territoriales de Base in each municipality.
11.    Nongovernmental organizations play an important role in the poor and rural areas of Bolivia.
These organizations manage about US$200 million a year from bilateral agencies and the government-a
considerable sum compared with the annual public investment budget of about US$500 million to US$600
million. About 400 nongovernmental organizations are organized in three networks: UNITAS (the National
Union for Social Work), ERBOL (Escuela Radiofonica de Bolivia), and AIPE (the Association of
Educational Institutions). These groups are coordinated by the national Coordinadora de Redes. There are
also about eighty nongovernmental organizations grouped in the Instituciones para el Desarrollo Social
(Institutions for Social Development) that are attempting to distinguish themselves from other
nongovernmental organizations by applying rigid professional standards, including external audits, and by
seeking sustainable development instead of charity.
C.     Rural water and sanitation
12.    Coverage. Water and sanitation coverage in Bolivia is low. According to the 1992 census,
coverage for the rural population is 24 percent for water and 17 percent for sanitation, compared with 81
percent for water and 63 percent for sanitation in urban areas (annex 3). Rural coverage has increased
slightly over the past decade, but it remains far below government targets and behind the rural water and
sanitation coverage of other Andean countries. In smaller communities and dispersed populations-80
percent of the rural population lives in communities with fewer than 250 inhabitants-water and sanitation
coverage has actually declined. Such communities represent more than 35 percent of the country's total
population. Even rural towns with water supply systems have poor service quality and unenforced sanitary
standards. Sewerage systems, where they exist, are unreliable, and sewage is often discharged into the
natural drainage system without any control. Most water sources, even in small, remote communities, are
highly polluted. A sample of 400 small water supply subprojects studied during project preparation found
that 85 percent had fecal contamination and required disinfection to meet Pan-American Health
Organization standards for safe human consumption (annex 5).
13.    The dismal state of water and sanitation services causes waterborne disease, the most frequently
reported illness in Bolivia. Enteric diseases are the second leading cause of death among all age groups, and
Bolivia has the second highest rate of infant mortality in Latin America-75 per 1,000 live births,
according to the 1992 census-with intestinal infections as the leading cause. In rural areas the lack of
adequate water supply facilities forces households to devote substantial time and energy to fetching water
from distant sources, which often are unfit for human consumption. This burden falls disproportionately on
women and children.
14.   Investment. The 1992-2000 National Water and Sanitation Plan gave priority to rural services and
to correcting the imbalance between water and sanitation coverage. The plan targeted public investment of
US$769 million for the eight-year period, with 70 percent coming from extemal financing. The plan also
proposed policy changes and capacity-building efforts to improve utility performance and the use of
resources. The plan wvas overly optimistic in evaluating the sector's capacity to absorb such investment,
and investments for 1992 were US$48.7 million and for 1993 US$56.4 million-consistent with historical



-4 -
investrnent patterns. The 1994 budget allocated 9 percent of public investment to water and sanitation,
about US$51 million. Of this, US$15 million went to expenditures in areas other than the departmental
capitals, including about US$10 million to rural communities with fewer than 5,000 people (annex 3).
D.     Lessons learned
15.    The rural water supply and sanitation sector has seen a multitude of projects with different policy
agendas and objectives driven by different donors and nongovernmental organizations. IDA financed water
and sanitation investments through four social investment projects, two with the now-defunct Social
Emergency Fund and two through its successor, the Social Investment Fund. Investments focused on poor,
rural and peri-urban areas. Since 1991 the UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation Program has
implemented a pilot project costing US$3 million to benefit about 60,000 people in the poorest
communities of the Department of Potosi. The project tested low-cost water and sanitation technologies,
developed innovative approaches to community participation, and implemented an extensive hygiene
education program. The experience gained in Potosi provides a sound basis for the proposed project, as
well as for the sustainability of future efforts (annex 2).
16.    The most important lessons learned from past projects are that:
* Communities should play a decisionmaking role over the life of the project, from planning to
operations.
* Community decisions should be based on the willingness to pay for different levels of service.
*  Even the poorest communities are willing to pay up to 30 percent of the capital investment
cost.
* Communities can be trained to administer and operate facilities with appropriate technology.
* Sustainability is improved when comununities finance and operate their facilities.
*  Rural water and sanitation projects should pay more attention to such activities as demand
generation, community mobilization, and training.
*  Training and hygiene education in the health, education and social sectors are essential to the
effective and sustained use of services.
*  Nongovernmental organizations seem to be effective in working at the grassroots level and in
most cases they have demonstrated efficiency and reliability in undertaking rural water and
sanitation programs.
*  Economic efficiency dictates that per capita investment ceilings for water supply and sewage
disposal be used as a selection criteria for individual subprojects.
*  Economies of scale can be achieved when subprojects are grouped, and when water supply and
sanitation is provided at the same time.
*  The participation of women must be actively encouraged, since they are usually the main users
of water, and to a large extent are responsible for hygiene practices within the family.
*  Technical support to operation and maintenance is required at the community, municipal, and
department levels.



-5 -
H. The Project
17.    The current project originated in 1993 when the government asked IDA to finance the rural
component of the national sector plan. Project preparation has been funded through three Project
Preparation Facility advances totaling US$1.7 million. The first advance was approved in July 1993, the
second in August 1994, and the third in July 1995. The UNDP contributed an additional US$150,000. The
staff of the project preparation team, paid for by the facility, was recruited by DINASBA in August 1993,
when project preparation activities officially started. In September 1994, sixteen nongovernmental
organizations were contracted to undertake all preparation activities at the municipal and department levels,
through a participatory process involving the authorities of local and regional water and sanitation units.
National and departmental workshops were held to ensure a collaborative process.
18.    The proposed project would be Bolivia's first large-scale, sector specific, rural water and sanitation
project. It would support the current administration's reform efforts in the areas of decentralization,
popular participation, policy fornulation, and public management. It is consistent with IDA's strategy for
Bolivia, which focuses on alleviating poverty and on improving the economic potential of marginal
populations, as stated in the Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Board on February 8, 1994. The
government is committed to an expeditious and effective implementation of the project. IDA assistance is
sought mainly because of IDA's experience in policy formulation and project implementation in the water
and sanitation sector. Advice is particularly needed for the coordination of the numerous multilateral and
bilateral agencies operating in Bolivia.
A.     Objective
19.    The project's goal is to alleviate poverty in rural areas by enhancing productivity through improved
health conditions and a more efficient use of the time saved collecting water. Specific objectives include
increasing the coverage and sustainable use of water and sanitation services in rural communities and
muncipalities, assisting the local water and sanitation units in developing the capacity to provide technical
assistance to municipal governments and local communities, supporting the sustainability of water and
sanitation services through extensive training of community-level operators and administrators, and
strengthening the capacity of DINASBA to formulate policies, prepare technical standards, and mobilize
financial resources.
B.     Description
20.    While the project aims to strengthen the institutional capacity of Bolivia to manage and develop
rural water supply and sanitation, investment activities initially will be targeted to four departments: La
Paz, Cochabamba, Chuquisaca, and Potosi. These departments were chosen by the govermment, assisted by
the project preparation team. These departments have large rural populations-totaling 2.4 million-and
poor water supply and sanitation coverage (annex 3). Their regional development corporations have been
actively involved in rural water and sanitation programs and have been committed to financing subproject
preparation from their own budgets, and have been assisting municipal governments and local communities
in sustaining and expanding these programs. As of January 1996, the departmental governments will
assume this responsibility according to the Decentralization Law, passed by Congress in July 1995. Project
design features, summarized in annex 6, include:



-6 -
*  strong community participation for improving economic efficiency and sustainability;
*  five-year municipal plans and annual operating budgets to ensure that the proposed investments are
a high priority for the community and the society;
*  low per capita grants to purgue least cost projects;
*  high financial contribution from municipalities and beneficiaries to ensure demand-driven
investments;
*  full cost recovery to attain long-term sustainability of services; and
* flexibility in project design and implementation to accommodate community demand.
21.    Focusing the first year of project implementation on a few geographic areas within each of the four
departments was critical to avoid dispersion of human and financial resources, to improve the effectiveness
of project preparation, and to ensure disbursement of funds early in the project implementation cycle. From
the second year of implementation, the project's investment activities will be expanded to other departnents
(paragraph 20), that have eligible rural water supply and sanitation projects, that are willing to finance
subproject preparation, and that can assist municipalities and communities in executing and operating the
projects (annex 12).
22.    The proposed project consists of a rural water and sanitation infrastructure program and an
institutional capacity-building program. The infrastructure component (74 percent of total project costs)
has two subcomponents. The first will provide water supply facilities-both gravity-fed and pumped-as
well as shallow wells with hand pumps and rainwater catchments. The second subcomponent involves
small-scale wastewater collection facilities, treatment and disposal systems, and latrines (annex 5).
23.    The technical assistance component (17 percent of total project costs) has three subcomponents.
The first component will finance project management to assist the institutions in charge of project
implementation. This component will provide up to 400 staff-months for project management, including
consultant services, equipment, and logistical support to DINASBA and the various departmental water
and sanitation units (UNASBA) throughout Bolivia.
24.    The second subcomponent will finance technical assistance to strengthen sector institutions and
communities in their capacity to provide safe, reliable and sustainable water and sanitation services. This
subcomponent finances capacity building activities that range from technical advice on operation and
maintenance, management issues, and financial planning to project dissemination and the promotion of
behavioural changes through hygiene and environmental education programs. It contains a number of
studies to strengthen the sector such as the design and implementation of a cost recovery study. It also will
finance the design and construction of low-cost technologies and community mobilization approaches for
specific rural water and sanitation pilot projects. In addition, this subcomponent will fund a number of
impact evaluation studies, workshops and a management information system to provide feedback so that
project implementation can be adjusted if necessary.
25.    The third subcomponent is a training program that will fund training to stakeholders and
institutions responsible for backstopping water and sanitation services. Municipalities and communities
will receive training for the administration, operation and maintenance, including tariff setting, and water
quality control. This subcomponent will also finance the training of operators and administrators in the
beneficiary communities to administer, operate and maintain water and sanitation services, including a
certification program that will test each trainee wvho has benefited from training, so as to ensure the quality



-7 -
and consistency of the training. Moreover, it will finance training to professional and manufactureres
associations to strengthen the human resources that work in the rural water and sanitation sector.
26.     The project will also finance the repayment of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance, and
the pre-investment studies of the infrastructure program (8 percent of total project costs).
C.      Costs
27.     The total project cost is estimated to be US$48 million (table 1). The foreign exchange requirement
is estimated to be US$6.9 million. Costs are based on end-1994 prices and do not include specific
allowances for inflation or physical contingencies because of the progra,mmatic nature of the activities
related to all project components-only the first-year activities have been fully determined. Cost estimates
for infrastructure components are based on per capita investment for a wide variety of technology options
and service levels obtained from engineering designs and similar works in Bolivia (annex 5). Institutional
development estimates are based on the terms of reference for each subcomponent and on current
consultant fees.
Table 1:       Project cost summary (millions of U.S. dollars)
Component                             Cost         Percentage
Infrastructure
Water supply                         26.1              54.4
Sanitation                            9.6              20.0
Subtotal                             35.7              74.4
Institutional
Project management                    1.4               2.9
Sector strengthening                  5.8              12.0
Training                              1.1              - 2.2
Subtotal                              8.3              17.1
Other
Project Preparation Facility advance  1.7               3.5
Pre-investment                        2.3               4.8
Subtotal                              4.0               8.3
Total                                 48.0               100
D.      Economics
28.     The economic justification for this project is based on the benefits it would generate in the form of
time savings, health benefits, productivity increases and insitutional benefits. Because water no longer has
to be carried over large distances, rural populations can achieve substantial savings of time. Access to
clean water, the use of adequately designed sanitary facilities and the adoption of improved hygiene
practices will have a positive impact on health. In addition, the project will also increase rural productivity
through the use of increased consumption of water for productive purposes, such as horticulture. The
project would also foster a number of benefits that are more difficult to quantify. These benefits include
the increased reliability of water supply, improved water quality, and the greater privacy of decent sanitary
facilities. The project would also generate long-run institutional benefits as community-based
organizations and municipalities leam to operate and maintain water and sanitation infrastructure.



- 8 -
29.     Time savings will be substantial as drinking water does not have to be hauled over large distances.
The time savings are converted into money terns by using an hourly wage rate. However, this technique
has its weaknesses as it is often women and children hauling water, whereas wage employment may not be
readily available in the rural communities that are targeted to be the beneficiaries of this project. Therefore
the time savings associated with carrying water will be converted into an adjusted wage rate that is equal to
only 60 percent of the rural wage rate. The major health benefits that are related to adequate water
supplies and sanitation are diarrheal diseases that primarily affect children under five years old. The health
benefits include cost savings as a result of reduced mortality, a reduction of the number of cases of diarrhea
that have to be treated in hospitals and health posts, and the medical costs of diarrhea that are cured
through informal treatments, such as ORS (Oral Rehydration Salts) or similar type of treatments.
Productivity benefits arise because part of the households use the increased availability of water for
horticultural purposes. The size of the plot used for horticulture, and hence the productivity benefits it will
generate, is dependent of the technology and service level chosen. In addition, some of the insitutional
benefits have been captured as the training of the certified operators will have a positive impact on their
income generating potential.
30.     The project offers various technologies for the provision of water supply and sanitation facilities.
As a consequence, the investment and operation and maintenance costs of the various technology options
will be different. In addition, due to the different service level that is offered, the benefits will also differ
per technology option. Therefore, an economic evaluation has been made for the different technology
options. The results are summarized in table 2.
Table 2:        Results of Economic Analysis for Water Supply Projects
for Different Technology Options and Service Levels (excluding SIF service fee, and institutional
benefits)
Technology Option  Population density  Scsricc Level      Net Present    Internal Rate  Cost-Benefit
Value (Bs)      of Return     Ratio
Gravity Systems    concenitrated,    liouse coinections       1,619          10.0%           1.00
witli treatnent
semi-dispersed    house conllections        14,333         13.4%          1.19
semi-dispersed    standpipes                2,228          10.8%          1.04
Pumped Systems     concentrated      house conlnections       11,352         10.6%           1.03
semi-dispersed    house cotunectionis      -22,486         7.5%           0.88
Spring protectioni  (semi)-dispersed  tap/standpipe           4,913          155.5%         11.07
Handpumps          (semi)-dispersed  YAKU hanidpump           2,186          29.6%          2.05
(semi)-dispersed  SOGA handpump             2,997          50.2%          3.38
(semi)-dispersed  BALDE handpump            3,102          53.9%          3.68
(senii)-dispersed  INDIA MARK Irm           1,920          14.8%          1.29
handpuiip
SpringE protection  (semi)-dispersed  no tap! no standpipe     -261           n.a.           n.a.
31.     All water supply options except for a pumped system with house connections in semi-dispersed
areas and spring protection without tap (or standpipe), are viable projects at the individual level (table 2).
They all generate high internal rates of return, especially the low-cost technology options handpumps.
32.     The total project consists of a large number of subprojects, both at the community and the
individual household level (annex 5). The total cost of this project amount to US$48 million (including
the institutional strengthening component). Based on the experiences of the pilot project and the SIF-
financed water and sanitation projects, a distribution of the total investment funds over the different



-9-
technology options has been made. The project investments will be implemented over a period of six
years. The base case scenario includes the benefits of time savings, health benefits, increased
productivity and are included. The net present value of the total project is Bs.31 million, the internal
rate of return is 13 percent and the benefit-cost ratio is 1.19.
33.    With the proposed tariff (i.e., the tariff based on operation and maintenance cost) all options are
viable from the point of view of ability to pay. In general, households using low-cost technologies will
spend up less than 3 percent of their income on water if the full cost of investment, operation and
maintenance would be charged. However, the more sophisticated technology options (such as those with
house connections) could eat up more than 10 percent of the monthly cash income of households. It is not
recommended to introduce these technology options in poor dispersed rural communities as it is likely that
these investments are not sustainable in the long run.
E.     Financing
34.    An IDA credit equivalent to US$20 million-including Project Preparation Facility funds of
US$1.7 million-will help finance foreign and local costs amounting to 42 percent of total project costs
(table 3). IDA will finance 100 percent of the institutional component and 28 percent of the infrastructure
component. SIF will provide US$ 10 million for parallel financing the infrastructure component of the
project from a specific allocation set for rural water and sanitation investments of a US$60 million IDB
loan to SIF, approved in May 1995. The OPEC Fund will provide US$5 million to cofinance the
investment component of the project. SIF and the OPEC Fund will provide the financing of the
infrastructure component against the same conditions as that of the IDA credit.
35.    The international donors will finance 70 percent of total investment costs (i.e., direct construction
costs plus the SIF fee), which are estimated at US$ 35.7 million. Municipalities will provide 30 percent of
the investment costs, of which 5 percent will be paid to the municipalities by the communities in cash. Each
community and its municipality will enter into an agreement, that stipulates the financial terms and
conditions of their contributions to the project. This agreement between community and municipality will
include an additional commitment for in-kind contributions (such as unskilled labor, and provision of local
materials valued against the rural wage rate) by the community to the municipality, equivalent to 15
percent of investment costs. Municipalities will treat the total investment as a municipal asset. The
departmental governments will finance the preparation of subprojects; these costs will equal to about 6.5
percent of direct construction costs.
36.    Municipalfinances. Since the adoption of the Popular Participation Law in April 1994, population
size serves as the basis for the distribution of intergovernmental transfers-fondos de coparticipacion-
increasing the municipal share of national revenue from 10 to 20 percent. In most municipalities, except in
department capitals, co-participation revenue has had a dramatic impact on financial capacity. This
revenue increased the average municipal revenue from US$2,500 in 1993 to US$75,000 in 1994.
Responsibilities also increased, to include the expansion and maintenance of physical infrastructure for
education, health, irrigation, and local roads. The redistributed revenue is earmarked for public
investment-only 10 percent may be used for current expenditures. The personnel costs of operating
transferred infrastructure continue to be borne by the central government. A revenue forecast for all
mumcipalities for the 1995-98 period is included in annex 11.
37.    Departmental Governments. Under the financial policy adopted for the project, regional
development corporations, to be replaced as of January 1996 by departmental governments (paragraph



- 10 -
20), do not bear a share of the investment cost. But they will fund all pre-investment expenses, which may
amount to 6.5 percent of the construction cost. Pre-investment decisions by departmental governments and
municipal investment priorities are consistent because departmental governments require prior approval
from municipal governments to make pre-investments in their jurisdiction. Therefore, pre-investment should
be included in the five-year municipal development plan and the corresponding annual operating budget
(paragraph 10). The role of the regional development corporations, according to the Decentralization Law,
will change drastically. As of January 1996, when the law enters into effect, it will eliminate the regional
corporations, absorbing their current functions into a restructured department-level government. Pre-
investment responsibilities will then be assumed by the departmental government; similarly, the institutional
functions and personnel assigned to the UNASBAs will be transferred accordingly.
Table 3:      Project financing (millions of U.S. dollars)
Component        IDA    OPEC-Fund     SIF/IDB  Dept. Govt's. Municipalities Communities
Infrastructure
Water supply     7.30       3.65      7.30                  6.51       1.30
Sanitation       2.70       1.35      2.70                  2.41        .48
Subtotal        10.00      5.00       10.00                8.91        1.76
Institutional
Project management  1.40
Sector strengthening  5.80
Training         1.10
Subtotal         8.30
Other
Pre-investment                                   2.30
PPF               1.70
Subtotal         1.70                            2.30
Total             20.00      5.00      10.00      2.30      8.91        1.76
38.    Social Investment Fund. The Social Investment Fund initiated operations in June 1991. The
creation of the fund followed the elimnination of the Social Emergency Fund, created as a safety-net
institution to generate employment for the poor during the first stage of structural adjustment (1985-89).
Employment generation through the Social Emergency Fund did not achieve the fund's objectives, but an
effective institution for social spending, managed by a cadre of motivated and well-paid professionals, was
created. In 1994 SIF's investments totaled US$24.6 million, and its operating cost was US$3.5 million, or
about 14 percent of investment costs. There is room for efficiency improvements at the fund, and
productivity should be stressed. Based on negotiations between the fund and several donors-including the
Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and multilateral institutions-projections were prepared for 1995-98
assuming an increase in investments to US$45 million to US$50 million, and operating costs of about
US$4.5 million per year, which results in an operating cost of less than 10 percent of its investment costs.
F      Environment
39.    The project is classified as category "B" under IDA's environmental guidelines. The only
foreseeable adverse impact is related to increased wastewater from small sewage collection systems,
particularly in communities with populations above 2,000. Similarly, minor sewage discharges into border



rivers are envisaged as potential adverse impacts. In such cases a simplified environmental impact
assessment would be conducted following procedures included in the Project Implementation Manual
(annex 14). Mitigation measures, including stabilization ponds where physically feasible and financially
viable, would be included into subprojects as a condition for financing. In such cases, investments in
wastewater disposal facilities might be treated as independent projects.
G.     Risks
40.    The project faces three main risks. The first risk relates to the speed of implementation of the
Popular Participation Law. The law, which legally recognizes and empowers local communities, was a
major reform with social and political consequences that are only now unfolding. This risk is minimized by
strengthening the institutional capacity of municipalities and communities to operate and maintain water
and sanitation services, and by fostering the participation of municipalities and communities in the
planning, design, administration, operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation projects, a goal
that also is supported by the recently approved Rural Communities Development Project (Cr-2772-BO).
41.    The second risk concerns the institutional weakness of the project entities. In terms of the sector's
institutions, DINASBA is weak. In addition, DINASBA has not assumed its policymaking responsibility
for the sector, instead concentrating its efforts on coordinating specific programs financed by international
agencies. The regional corporations, which will be replaced by departmental governments as of January
1996, have only recently been given the responsibility of providing technical assistance to local
governments. The corporations have acted mainly as project implementing agencies and have limited
experience in program planning, coordination, and supervision. This risk is minimized by devoting
adequate resources to strengthening DINASBA and the UNASBAs; this includes establishing specific
project units within each organization, and specific credit conditionality linked to progressive incorporation
of sector institutions, particularly DINASBA, into the Public Service Law.
42.    A third risk relates to the changed role of the municipality. The Popular Participation Law has
radically altered the powers, responsibilities and fiscal resources of the local governments. The increased
authority could result in the municipalities setting their own, politically motivated, agenda with regard to
the provision of rural water and sanitation services. However, this risk is minimized because of the use of
eligibility criteria for municipalities and communities to qualify for financing, which assures that the
project has to reflect the needs and preferences, and the willingness to pay of the community.



-12-
m. Project Implementation
43.    The borrower will be the Republic of Bolivia. The overall project execution will be under the
responsibility of the National Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DINASBA). The project will be
managed by a project management unit within DINASBA. The project management unit will be responsible
for overall management of the project, and will ensure compliance with the credit and project agreement
conditions.
A.     Arrangements
44.    DINASBA will be responsible for guiding, coordinating, and monitoring the implementation of the
overall project, and for managing the institutional component of the project. The Social Investment Fund
(SIF) will be responsible for managing the investment component of the project. Prior to credit
effectiveness, SIF and the Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary agreement under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA. As of January 1996, the departmental governments will assume the role of the regional
development corporations and be responsible for financing pre-investment of subprojects. A project
committee comprising representatives of the National Secretary of Popular Participation, acting as
chairman, the Under Secretary of Urban Affairs, the Under Secretary of Rural Development, the Social
Investment Fund, and each departmental government will oversee implementation of the project to ensure
proper coordination of implementation strategies and to monitor project performance. Terms of reference
for this committee, satisfactory to IDA, will be included in the implementation manual (annex 14). During
negotiations it was agreed that this project committee would be established not later than September 30,
1996.
45.    Project management. The project preparation team will be transformed into a project management
unit to implement the project. This unit, responsible for overall project execution, will be composed of a
project manager, an engineer with experience in rural water supply and sanitation, a community
mobilization specialist, and an information specialist. The infrastructure component will be managed by the
Social Investment Fund according to procedures satisfactory to IDA. The institutional component will be
managed by the project management unit through an agreement with the UNDP to be entered into not later
than two months after credit effectiveness. Terms of reference for the project management unit was agreed
on before credit negotiations. The main duties of the project management unit and the project committee
should be outlined in the implementation manual (annex 14).
46.    Legal documents and institutional agreements. Legal documents include a Development Credit
Agreement between IDA and the Republic of Bolivia (represented by the Ministry of Finance). The
Government would transfer to SIF the proceeds allocated to the investment component through a subsidiary
agreement. A model for the institutional agreement between DINASBA, the Social Investment Fund, and
each regional development corporation, or Department government in 1996, to execute the project, was
discussed and agreed during negotiations (annex 4).
47.    Special account. A special account will be established in U.S. dollars in the Central Bank of
Bolivia. The initial allocation-sufficient for about four months of expenditures--will be US$ 1.2 million.
The authorized allocation shall be limited to US$600,000 until the combined credit withdrawals have
reached US$5 million. Funds from the account will be available only for IDA's share of project costs. IDA



- 13 -
will replenish the special account as requested on receipt of evidence that expenditures made were eligible
for financing from the credit proceeds.
48.    Annual project review. A project review involving the government and IDA will be held each year,
not later than January 31, starting in 1997. This review is essential for project implementation. Draft terms
of reference for the review will be included in the implementation manual (annex 14). Moreover, the project
will finance a number of studies and a monitoring and evaluation system (annex 7), that will assist
PROSABAR, the rural water and sanitation sector in Bolivia and IDA in reviewing the project's
performance. In addition to the annual review, two workshops will be held. The first, to be held within
ninety days of Board presentation, will explain IDA procedures. The second will be at the beginning of the
third year of project implementation, to review and update the implementation manual and technical
standards. Outline terms of reference for the project review are included in annex 16.
B.     Selection criteria
49.    Investments for the first year of project implementation have been selected based on the demand for
water and sanitation services from communities, and municipalities and the departments have been selected
based on the total number of households without access to these services. The distribution of the different
technological options, service levels and community sizes of the first-year program is shown in annex 5.
Focusing first-year implementation efforts in departments in the Altiplano was critical for efficient use of
human and financial resources, and for applying the lessons learned from the Potosi pilot project. For
subsequent years (1996-2000) all departments and municipalities could be eligible for financing if they
meet the criteria presented in annex 12. These criteria will be revised annually to incorporate adjustments.
C.     Supervision
50.    The project management unit will supervise the project, including compliance with project and
institutional agreements. The project implementation manual (annex 14) will contain basic project
management procedures. The implementation manual should be formally adopted before credit
effectiveness. Annual reviews and supervision will be based on well-defined and measurable indicators
developed during appraisal. The project's perfonnance will be measured against a number of wcll-dcfined
and measurable monitoring indicators as well as a number of indicators which due to the demand-driven
character of the project can not be determined beforehand (annex 18).
51.    The supervision requirement for the project is estimated at fifty staff-weeks from credit
effectiveness to credit closing (four years). The professional expertise required to supervise the project
include an engineer with experience in rural projects, a sociologist or community development specialist,
and an institutional development expert. Supervision requirements will be intense during the first two years
of project implementation, when at least twelve staff-weeks will be needed annually (annex 16).
D.     Procurement
52.    Procurement for the institutional component will involve recruitment of national and international
consultants to provide training services and technical assistance, and small purchases of goods and
equipment. Implementation of the rural water and sanitation infrastructure program will consist of
contracts for civil works and for the procurement of goods and equipment. International competitive



- 14 -
bidding (ICB) will be used for civil works contracts financed by subgrants exceeding US$1 million, and for
goods and equipment financed by subgrants exceeding US$100,000. To the extent practicable, contracts
for goods and works financed by subgrants shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of US$1 million for works and US$100,000 for goods.
53.    All other procurement activities will be carried out through national competitive bidding (NCB),
with the exception of contracts for civil works financed by subgrants costing less than US$50,000 and for
goods and equipment financed by subgrants costing less than US$25,000. NCB procedures will be used to
the aggregate limit of US$5 million for civil works financed by subgrants and US$750,000 for goods,
equipment, and vehicles financed by subgrants.
54.    Contracts for small civil works financed by subgrants costing less than US$50,000 could be
awarded on the basis of at least three price quotations, or if only one quote can be obtained under direct
contracting, up to an aggregate amount of US$1 million. Contracts for works other than those financed by
subgrants will be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of at least three
price quotations. If only one quote can be obtained, works not financed by subgrants may be procured
under direct contracting up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$200,000. National shopping can be
used for goods financed by subgrants estimated to cost less than US$25,000, up to an aggregate amount of
US$250,000. Goods other than goods financed by subgrants will be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures.
55.    The Social Investment Fund, responsible for procurement of the investment component, has had a
well documented experience with IDA financed projects. Standard bidding documents already approved by
IDA under the Second Social Investment Fund project (C2532-BO) will be used for NCB procurement
under the proposed project. Since Bolivia's legislation with respect to NCB defers in part with IDA's
principles and rules of procurement, during negotiations agreement was reached with the Borrower on
principles and rules of procurement which shall expressly govern all procurement of goods and works
under NCB. IDA issued documents will be used for ICB procurement. Procurement for the institutional
capacity building program will be managed by the UNDP, under a management agreement with the
Bolivian Government. Supervision of procurement will be managed by the IDA's Resident Mission in La
Paz; a procurement assistant has been relocated to La Paz to assist the Project Implementation Manager
during the first year of project execution.
Table 4:      Project cost by procurement method (millions of US dollars)
Project Element     ICB            NCB          Other         Total
Civil Works          3.0          24.0          3.0 a/        30.0
(1.0)        (5.0)         (1.0)          (7.0)
Materials and Equipment  3.0      2.0           0.7 b/        5.7
(2.0)         (0.75)        (0.25)       (3.0)
Consulting Services                              12.3         12.3
(10.0)        (10.0)
Total                6.0          26.0          16.0          48.0
(3.0)        (5.75)         (11.25)      (20.0)
Figures in parenthesis are amountsfinanced by the IDA credit
a"SSmall works procedures (3 quotations) and direct contracting
b/ national shlopping



- 15 -
56.    In addition to reviewing the investment subprojects and associated community development
programs for the first year of project implementation, IDA will review ex-ante procurement documents for
contracts for civil works and goods financed by subgrants under ICB procedures and for civil works
contracts financed by subgrants costing more than US$250,000. Documentation for the other subprojects
will be available at the Social Investment Fund for IDA staff and auditors. IDA will review ex-ante all
procurement documents for goods and equipment contracts not financed by subgrants exceeding
US$50,000. IDA also will exercise prior review of the documentation and steps for the procurement of
consulting services costing US$25,000 or above for firms and US$5,000 or above for individuals. For all
other contracts and documentation, the Social Investment Fund will maintain those involving the rural
water and sanitation infrastructure program, and DINASBA and the UNDP will maintain those relating to
procurement of the institutional capacity building program to IDA's satisfaction, making them available for
inspection by IDA staff and auditors. The proposed review thresholds provide for prior review by IDA of
approximately 75% of the total value of IDA-financed contracts.
E.     Disbursement
57.    The IDA credit will cover up to 100 percent of the amount disbursed under subgrants which will
finance contracts for the construction of water supply and sanitation systems under the rural water and
sanitation infrastructure program, including discrete or bulk procurement of the related equipment; 100
percent of foreign and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for procurement of office
equipment, vehicles, and similar items related to the operations of the project implementing agencies; 85
percent of civil works for pilot projects that test and develop low-cost water and sanitation technologies
and/or methodologies for community mobilization in investment subprojects; 100 percent of contracts for
consulting services; 100 percent of travel costs for the institutional strengthening program; and 100 percent
of the UNDP fee.
58.    Disbursements for (i) civil works contracts financed by subgrants of less than US$250,000; (ii)
and goods contracts financed by subgrants of less than US$ 100,000; (iii) goods not financed by subgrants
costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or less; (iv) works other than works financed by subgrants; (v)
consulting contracts with firms and individuals costing less than US$25,000 and US$5,000 respectively;
and (vi) training, travel costs and the UNDP fee, will be made under the statement of expenditures
procedure. Advance contracting-about US$3 million-will be permitted, in accordance with the
disbursement categories and percentages as established in the legal agreement and provided that it follows
IDA's procurement guidelines. It is a condition of disbursement for the payments on account of a subgrant
that SIF and the corresponding eligible municipality have entered into a subgrant agreement under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
59.    Retroactive financing. Reimbursement of up to US$1.7 million will be permitted for expenditures
made in accordance with procurement procedures agreed to under the project from August 1, 1995,
provided that the credit is signed no later than July 31, 1996. If the credit is signed at a later date, the date
for eligibility of expenditures for retroactive financing will be modified so that the period covered by
retroactive financing is no longer than one year. Retroactive financing is recommended to ensure timely
provision of technical assistance for project management and procurement of investments already
negotiated with communities and approved by IDA during appraisal. The UNDP has offered the
Government of Bolivia bridge financing of up to US$3 million, to be reimbursed before December 15,
1996.



- 16 -
60.    Closing date. Project implementation is expected to last four years. Based on the assumption that
the credit will become effective in June 1996, the credit closing date will be December 31, 2000.
F      Audits
61.    DINASBA/PROSABAR, UNASBAs, the UNDP, the Social Investment Fund, and the other
entities concerned will maintain separate accounts for all project expenditures involving the use of IDA
credit proceeds. These accounts will be audited annually by external independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. The audits will include the special account and project account. All audit contracts will be awarded
prior to the end of the calendar year and the audit should be submitted to IDA for review and comment no
later than June 30 of the following year. All audit costs wvill be financed by Bolivia.
G.     Reporting
62.    DINASBA/PROSABAR will prepare a quarterly evaluation on the status of project
implementation (annex 15), based on monitoring indicators (annex 18), a summary of relevant statistical
and financial data for each project component and activity, major project achievements, possible issues
with remedial actions, and fulfillment of covenants. These evaluations Will be consolidated in a report
which will be submitted to IDA for review and comment no later than November 30 of each year of project
implementation, starting in 1996. This report will be formalized in standard fornats which were defined
and agreed during negotiations (annex 15). Each local unit also will prepare an annual operational plan
for the execution of activities under their auspices during each year of project implementation, including
guarantees of budget allocations for pre-imvestment financing. This plan will be submitted by DINASBA to
IDA for review and approval no later than December 15 of each year, starting in 1996.



- 17-
IV. Agreements and Recommendation
63.    During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from the government that:
(a)    The policy framework for rural water and sanitation investments is set forth in Ministerial
Decree, dated September 11, 1995.
(b)    The technical manual for the design of rural water and sanitation projects has been adopted
by means of a directive of DINASBA.
(c)    Project implementation agreements between the National Secretary of Urban Affairs, the
Social Investment Fund, and each departmental government, all satisfactory to IDA, have
been signed.
(d)    A project implementation manual, satisfactory to IDA, has been adopted by DINASBA.
(e)    The management team of PROSABAR, satisfactory to IDA, has been officially appointed.
64.    In addition, agreement was reached on UNDP financing-about US$320,000 in four years-of
independent monitoring and evaluation of the project, managed by the UNDP-World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program based in La Paz (annex 7).
65.    Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government of Bolivia should confirm that:
(a)    A project implementation manual, satisfactory to IDA, has been adopted by DINASBA.
(b)    At least three project accounts (UNASBA Accounts) have been opened.
(c)    A subsidiarv agreement between SIF and the Borrower has been signed.
66.    During negotiations, the following agreements have been reached:
(a)    UNDP and the Borrower shall enter into a management service agreement not later than
two months after credit effectiveness.
(b)    Prepare quarterly evaluations on the status of project implementation, which will be
consolidated in an annual report not later than November 30 of each year, starting in 1996.
(c)     Prepare an annual operation plan, not later than December 15 of each year, starting in
1996, which includes the activities to be carried out during the calender year following the
date of presentation of such plan.
(d)    Establish a project committee that will oversee the implementation of the project by
September 30, 1996.
(e)    Complete the design of a proposal to incorporate DINASBA's personnel in the Borrower's
Civil Service System by December 31, 1996.



- 18 -
(f)    Prepare and furnish an action plan, which shall include, inter alia, a timetable, for the
purpose of implementing the proposal to incorporate DINASBA's personnel in the
Borrower's Civil Service System by March 31, 1997.
(g)    Complete the design of a new cost recovery policy, not later than June 30, 1997;
(h)    Take or cause to be taken all necessary actions to adopt the cost recovery policy not later
than March31, 1998.
(i)    SIF and the corresponding eligible municipality have entered into a subgrant agreement
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Recommendation. Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$20
million equivalent, to be repaid over forty years, including ten years' grace, at IDA's standard rate.



- 19 -
BOLIVIA
RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANNEXES



- 20 -



Annex 1
Bank Loans /IDA Credits to Bolivia Water and Rural Sectors (1976-94)
As of January 1, 1995
Year   LUC no.     Original L/C  Disbursed Cancelled Borrower       Project Title                              Comments
Amount USS              (percent)
1976 L1211-BO        S9.5m       $6 43m      32    GOB      Ingavi Rural Development  The project benefited 10,000 families by establishing an autonomous
unit to provide production services, agncultural credit. and constructon
._______ ._______                                     of 20 deep wells for land irrigabon and dnnking water.
1976 L1324-BO       $11 .5m      $4 72m      59     GOB     Urban and Rural Communities Despite a five-year over-run. the project was successful in expanding
Waler Supply and Sewerage  and improving water supply services In rural areas at a reasonable cost
________  _______                              dunng polinical and economic diffiultiers (OED Unsatisfactory)
1979 C0933-BO        $3 Om       $1 99m      34    GOB      Omasuyos-Los Andes Rural  Technical services operated in the early years of the project. mcluding
Development              farmer training Male, female extension agents provided hornemaking
programs. The health infrastructure reached 4% of targets. the forestry
component was a failure
1979 C0948-BO        $9.0m        $9.Om       0    GOB      Santa Cruz Water Supply and Most components were completed five years later than the targeted
Sewerage                 completion date due to hyperinflation and other economic problems
I  ______                                             during 1982 - 85
1987 C1829-BO        S10m        $10 Om       0    GOB      Emergency Social Fund     The projects were successful tn mobilizing international support and
providing finance to income-generabng projects (OED Satisfactory)
1988 C1882-BO        $27m        $25 Om       0    GOB      Second Emergency Social   The credits financed 351 projects in the water and sewerage sectors
Fund                     totaling US$27 million benefiting 609.000 people (OED Satisfactory)
1988 C1842-BO        $15m          97%        0     GOB     La Paz Municipal          Delays, due to frequent changes in administration, that plagued
Development              implementation of the institutional, administrative, and financial
components, have been resolved. The project has been extended one
.________________________ year to allow for closing studies.
1990 C2119-BO        $35m          57%        0    GOB      Eastern Lowlands Natural  Social infrastructure implementation is progressing at a satisfactory
Resource Management and   rate. The issue of concern is the major problems with land demarcation
Agricultural Production   for the indigenous population.
1990 C2127-BO       $21 5m         93%        0    GOB      Social Investment Fund    Assists the government in its efforts to improve the coverage of basic
services, including the financing of projects in the water and sanitation
__________   _________             __________________________   ~~secto r.
1990 C2187-BO        $35m         42%         0    GOB      Major Cities Water and    The project aims at improving and expanding the water and sanitation
Sewerage Rehabilitation   services as well as the water utility in La Paz, Sta. Cruz, and
Cochabamba.
1993 C2532-BO        S40m         33%         0    GOB      Second Social Investment  Finance sub-projects in basic water supply and sanitation infrastructure
Fund                      combined with training of the communities in O&M and basic hygiene.
1994 C2565-BO        $42m          8%         0    GOB      Municipal Sector Development The project aims to promote efficient municipal management in support
of decentralization; improve resource mobilization and allocation for
municipal investment projects; and alleviate urban poverty and
encourage balanced regional development.
Li      ly'] -  Completed projects



- 22 -
Annex 2
Experience from Previous Projects and Lessons Learned
1.     Few projects and institutions have had an active presence in water and sanitation projects in
dispersed rural areas, which are the most deprived areas of Bolivia. IDA has financed water and sanitation
investments focusing on poor periurban areas through four social investment projects, two with the now-
defunct Social Emergency Fund (SEF) and two through its successor, the Social Investment Fund (SIF).
From 1991 to 1994, the Dutch government-through the UNDP (UNDP)-World Bank Water and
Sanitation Programn-financed the implementation of a pilot project to benefit people in the poorest
communities in the Department of Potosi. The experience accumulated in the Potosi project, which included
strong NGO participation, provided a sound conceptual basis for the preparation of PROSABAR. NGOs
like CARE, CCH, and PROANDES-UNICEF also have been successful in implementing projects in rural
Bolivia.
Yacupaj
2.     Yacupaj means "for the water" in the Quechua language. The Yacupaj pilot project began in 1991
with the objective of designing and testing strategies for the provision of sustainable water and sanitation
services to the dispersed rural population of the Altiplano. The project, which cost US$2.8 million, was
executed in four provinces of the Department of Potosi by the UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation
Program. In three years the project worked in 520 communities and trained 190 rural teachers, 200
infirmary assistants, 290 builders, and 600 operators. The project built and installed 220 water systems,
750 manual pumps, and 2,400 sanitation facilities, and benefited 31,000 inhabitants with water services
and 30,000 inhabitants with sanitation services. Furthermore, 85 percent of the population use and keep
their lavatories clean, 60 percent of women know how to treat illnesses like mange, diarrhea, and cholera,
and 30 percent of the users have varied their water use. They water orchards, use solar tents, and provide
their animals with water.
3.     Project implementation. The promotion stage began with NGOs visiting the communities to
explain the scope and benefits of the project, emphasizing the economic benefits of the project in terms of
health improvements and time savings. Once the communities had agreed to participate in the project the
process of demand generation was initiated. NGOs and community promoters organized hygiene education
activities. The promoters and NGO staff trained community members to identify their needs for basic
sanitation. Then, the comnunities were organized to initiate the work and the people elected representatives
to the water committees that were created. The community had to buy construction materials from local
shops, paying 30 percent of the costs. They also contributed labor and local materials to the scheme, with
the project paying the remaining 70 percent for non-local materials and cost of the mason. The average per
capita cost of water infrastructure investment has been US$12, demonstrating the feasibility of low-cost,
sustainable projects. During building of the works, the community elected people to be trained in operations
and maintenance. Once the construction was completed the project periodically monitored the use of the
works for three months. Project maintenance, water quality control, women's participation, promoter's
work, spare parts availability, and changes in hygiene habits were reviewed and modified when necessary.
Lessons learned
4.     The most important lessons learned from the above experiences and, in particular, from the Potosi
pilot project are:



- 23 -
*   Communities should be the final decisionmakers throughout the life of a project, from planning to
operations.
*  The process of commnunity mobilization, training, and demand generation is key to ensuring conscious,
active, and permanent participation of the community throughout and after project completion.
*  Even the poorest communities are willing to provide labor and contribute up to 30 percent of the
capital investment costs in cash and in kind.
*  The active participation of women, who are the principal water users, at all stages of the project was
key in ensuring the project's success.
*  Community members, especially women, can be trained to undertake management operations and
service maintenance activities.
*  Simple, low-cost, and easy-to-maintain technologies are key to the success of rural water and sanitation
projects.
*  The communities' contribution to the investment cost is key to creating a sense of belonging and
ensuring sustainability.
*  Training and hygiene education in the health, education, and sanitation sectors are essential to the
effective and sustained use of the services.
*  Technical support for operations and maintenance is required at the community, municipal, and
department levels; and, at the end of the project, the region must have adequate institutions to assist in
maintaining and expanding the systems.
*  NGOs seem to be effective in working at the grassroots level and in most cases have demonstrated
efficiency and reliability in undertaking rural water and sanitation programs.



- 24 -
Annex 3
Water and Sanitation Sector
Coverage
Department             Population                     Water %                  Sanitation %
Total     Rural     Urban     Total    Rural    Urban     Total    Rural    Urban
Chuquisaca     453,756    147,401   306,355     42.86    18.15    90.87     29.8     7.47     73.2
La Paz        1,900,786  1,193,821  706,965     62.18    23.69    87.44    36.97    15.09    51.34
Cochabamba    1,110,205   580,188   530,017     48.82    26.08    71.57    45.45    21.81    69.08
Potosi         645,889    216,835   429,054     43.36    21.67    90.09    21.63      7.2    52.71
Oruro          340,114    222,018   118,096     65.06    23.35     92.1    22.09     6.16    32.42
Tarija         291,407    159,438   131,969     62.77     25.4    92.02    49.52    19.16     73.3
Beni           276,174    182,748    93,426     37.19     3.98    54.62    65.54    41.25     78.3
Santa Cruz    1,364,389   982,396   381,993     71.94    33.65    86.44    67.75    37.25    79.26
Pando           38,072     10,001    28,071     25.59     5.92    76.96    48.36    33.27    87.76
Total         6,420,792  3,694,846  2,725,946   57.52    23.82    84.17    42.82    17.48    62.86
Base 1992
Investments USS '000
Department   Total          Urban             Rural
Total      %       Total i
Chuquisaca        414       213       51      210      49
La Paz         22,145    19,081       86    3,064      14
Cochabamba     15,876    12,208       77    3,668      23
Oruro          12,243    10,656       87    3,064      13
Potosi          3,973     2,724       69    1,250      31
Tarija          6,464     4,096       63    2,368      37
Santa Cruz     15,547    14,565       94      982       6
Beni              552       354       64      198      36
Pando             510       158       31     352       69
Totals         77,724    64,055       82   15,156      18
Base 1994



Annex 4
Institutional Arrangements
Organization Matrix
Government    Authority
Administration   Level                 Institutions
National    Presidency                                                       Presidency
Ministry      Human Deelopment        Presidency    Finance
Secrelary        Popular Parlicipation    SIF
Under-       Urban         Rural                     Public
Secretary   Development Development                 Investment
Directorate   DINASBA
PROSABAR
Department   Deparlmental                                                      Prefectura
Government                                                        UNASBA
Regional                                  SIF
Enlities
Local      Municipality                      Municipal Government
W&S Unit
Community                      Community GovemmenrlOTB
W&S Users Association
|            IPolicy Formulation
Project Implementation
Once Decentralization Law is passed



Annex 4
Institutional Arrangements
Functional Matrix
rO Leadership                       *  No objecton (according to ceilings)
0  Primary Responsibility          +   Support
X Shared Responsibility
0 Concurrent Responsibility
Institutions
National                           International
Function               1  2  3  4  5   6  7  8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23
Policy Formulabon                 0  X  X 9   9   X  X  X     El9    0              I  I     I
Project Implementation                                     X OC E       X X I                I
Investment                                                 E      O X X X X
Pre-investment                 =  =JIh                                     C =  _
Evaluabion                     =] =_                                    X
Approval                                                El 
Bidding                                                 0         X X X                     *m
Supervision                    _l                                    - I X
Follow-up                      __                             E0l    [El 00      I
Technical Assistance              _        _X X                         X     I
Prepare Terms of Reference                                    El     X     I =  =  =  =  X     _   =   =
Approval                                                  _   El     X                                                                         C
Bidding and contracts                                          X     El
Supervision                                                    x     El
Follow -Up                                            __             I     __
Monitoring and Evaluation                               l__       El                       X   Y  X
Training                                                         El     x    X   x    X   X      +
Reporting                                  [_                    El El    _X_
Auditing                                             0 -  - _0                             0
Accountability of Expenses                           0            0  0  0 _ _              0
Project Coordination              _  _        O     X      X         X
Institutlons
National Level                  Departmental Level   Local Level                     Intemational Level
Min. Human Development           I   Departmental Govemments     12 Municipal Govemment     15 UNDP              19
Min. of Sustainable Development  2   UNASBA                       13 W&S Unit               16 World Bank        20
Mn. of Finance                   3   Regional FIS                 14 OTB/Community Govt.    17 UNDP-WB Program   21
Secr. of Popular Participation   4                                   W&S Users Association  18
Under Sec. of Urban Development  5
Under Secr. of Rural Development  6
Under Secr. of Institutional Development 7
Under Secr. of Public Investment  8
SIF                              9
DINASBA                          10
|PROSABAR                         11 |                               |



- 27 -
Annex 5
Technology Options Description
Water supply
Technical option           Population             Service level           Population range       Systen       Responsibility for
density               indicated                                   ownership a/       0 & Mb/
Piped water   Gravity fed      Concentrated     -House connection w/ w/o water  Large                Municipal      Municipal
supply        system                            meter or regulator             2000 - 5000          Government      Government
._____________    -Multi-family stand pipe
Semi-dispersed   - House connection w/ w/o     Medium                Municipal       Community
regulator.                    500 - 2000            Government
- Multi-fanily stand pipe
-Combination (house connection
/ sand pipe).
Dispersed        -Multi-family stand pipes     Small                 Municipal       Community
.___________ _________.________._           _   <   500               Governm ent
Pump fed         Concentrated     -House connection w/ water    Large                 Municipal       Municipal
sytem                             meter or regulator            2000 - 5000           Govenmment      Govemnment
Semi-dispersed   -House corwection w/ water    Medium                Municipal       Community
meter or regulator            500 - 2000            Government
Small                 Municipal       Community
350-500               Government
Spring           Semi-dispersed/  -Multi-family stand pipes        5-25               Communal or     Communal or
protection wt    dispersed                                                            family          family
multi-farnily
stand pipe
Non-piped     Manmal purnps    Semi-dispersed   - Multi-fanily                    5-25              Communal or     Communal or
water supply  with excavated                    - Family                                            famnily         family
wells
prec1ion                                                                             .
Dispersed        - Multi-family
- Family
Ram water        Semi-dispersed   - Family                           Not deftned      Communal or     Communal or
- Communal                                          family          family
_  Dispersed       - Fannily                                         .
Sanitation
Technical Option          Population      Level of service  Population tange    Water service        System        Responsible
density          indicated                                              ownership       for O & M
Conventional                Concentrated       House             Morethan 1000     House connection    Municipal       Municipal
connection                                              Government      Government
Reduced diameter            Concentrated       House             More than 1000    House connection    Municipal       Municipal
connection                                              Government      Govermnent
Latrine                     Concentrated       Family              Per Latrine:    House connection,   Family          Family
(pour-flush latrine)                                                  2 - 10       standpipe,
handpump
Semi-dispersed    Family
._______ _  Dispersed      Family
VIP Latrine                 Concentrated       Family              Per Latrine:    House connection,   Family          Family
2 - 10       standpipes and
handpumps
Semi-dispersed    Fanily
I Dispersed         Family
a/ Investments are always registered as municipal assets; but ownership can be delegated.



Annex 5
Technology Options
Cost Structure
Technologyoption           I          2           3          4           5           6          7           8          9     |      10        11         12          13         14
Service type                                                                   Water Supply                                                                       Sanitation
System                Gravity w/  Gravity w/o  Gravity stand Pumps deep Pumps deep Manual  Manual      Manual     Manual      Spring     Spring      Sewerage & Latrines wet Latrines dry
treatment  treatment   pipe        well wI    well        pumps       pumps      pumps       pumps      protection w/ protection  treatment           (\AP)
disinfection           (YAKU)      (SOGA)     (BALDE)     (INDIA MARK stand pipe
111)
Connection type       House      House       Stand pipe  House      House       Individual  Stand pipe  Siand pipe  Sland pipe  Stand pipe           House
Density               High       Semi        Semi       High        Semi        Semi       Semi        Semi       Semi        Semi       Semi-disp. / High      Semi        Semi
dispersed   dispersed              dispersed  dispersed   dispersed   dispersed  dispersed  dispersed   dispersed              dispersed   dispersed
Ownership             Municipality  Municipality  Community  Municipality  Municipality  Family  Family  Family   Family      Family     Family      Municipality  Family   Family
Investment Percent
Local material                 2           3           3          1           2          4           6           9          4          4           4           5         17          15
Non locat materials            56         53          50         58          58         54          46         41          64         61          29          39         36          29
Unskilled labor                11         13          15         10           8          9          14          14          7          4           4          15         13          16
Skilled labor                   3          2           2           1          2           6          5           5          2           7          6           5          5           7
Tools & equipment               2          2           2          5           7           1          1      1    1                                             6          1           1
Fringe benefits                 8          9           9          7           5          8          10          11          5           6          5          11          9          13
Overhead                       13         13          13         13          13          13         12          12         13          13          7          13         12          12   tk
Tax                     S___ 5             6           6          5           5           5          6           6          4           5          3           6          6           7
US$Sbeneflclary                75         63          46         69          74          16         10          10         28          4           2          75         24          22
O& M Percent
Operation                      19         84          75         67          69                                                                               42
Administration                 19          3           4          3           3                                                                               21
Maintenance                    62         13          21         30          28        1W1 100                 100        100         100        100          37        100         100
USSlbeneficiary/yr.           2.5         2.1        1.2         3.1        4.1         1.3        0.6         0.6        2.4         0.2         0.1        0.9         1.3        1.3
Estimated demand %             10         10          23          1           4         14           4           1          1          4           1          3          12          12
Note:
* Investments will be registered as municipal assets; yet, ownership can be delegated.



- 29 -
Annex 5
Technology Options
Water Quality Standard
Substance           Units          Max           Max
recommended     acceptable
Physical properties
and organicleptides
Color               mg/pt/i                  5.00          20.00
Odor                                        none      acceptable
Flavor                                      none      acceptable
Turbidity            N.T.U.                  5.00          25.00
Total solids         mg/dm3                500.00        1500.00
Conductivity        Ohms                 _
Chemical properties
Alcaline hydroxide  mg CO3Ca/l               0.00         120.00
Alcaline carbonate   mg CO3CaA               0.00         250.00
Alcaline bi-carbonate  mg CO3Ca/l          100.00         800.00
Total hardness      mg CO3Ca/l          -0.5/+0.5^
Saturation index                            7-8.5        6.5-9.2
pH range (min - max)
Chemical substances
Arsenic              mg As/I                 0.00           0.05
Barium              mg Ba/I                  0.00           1.00
Cadmium             mg Cd/I                  0.00           0.01
Calcium             mg Ca/l                 75.00        200.00
Cyanide             mg CN/I                  0.00           0.05
Residual free chlorine  mg Cl 2/I            0.20           1.00
Chlorides           mg Cl/I                200.00         500.00
Copper              mg Cu/I                  0.05           1.50
Crome                mg Cr+6/l               0.00           0.05
Florides             mg F/I                  1.00           1.50
Total iron           mg Fe/i                 0.30           1.00
Magnesium           mg Mg/l                 30.00         150.00
Manganese            mg Mn/I                 0.05           0.50
Mercury             mg Hg/l                  0.00           0.00
Nitrates             mg N03/l                0.00          45.00
Nitrites            mg N02/l                 0.00           0.05
Lead                mg Pb/I                  0.00           0.10
Selenium            mg Se/l                  0.00           0.01
Sulphate            mg S04/l               200.00         400.00
Zinc                 mg Zn/l                 5.00          15.00
Bacteriological Quality
Total coliform       NMP/100 ml              0.00          10.00
Fecal coli           NMP/100 ml              0.00           0.00
*Desirable
Based on PAHO standards



- 30 -
A.     Trenching
Activity            hr/m3
Soft soil, 0 -1 m                3.00
Semi-hard soil, 0-1 m            3.50
Semi-hard soil, 0-2 m            5.00
Semi-hard soil, 2-4 m            7.00
Hard soil, 0-1 m                 5.00
Hard soil 0-2 m                  7.00
Rock                             8.00
Structures, semi-hard soil, 0-2 m  4.50
B.     Filling
Activity              hr/m3
Loose soil                       1.5
Machine compacted                1.6
With meshed soil (not supplied)  4.5
Manual compacted                 3.5
C.     Lying pipe n/hr
Pipe        PVC (B&S)            PVC              PE               G.I.
dimension                       (Threaded)_
1/2"             29              26               42               14
3/4"             29               26              40                14
1,,             25               24              33                10
1 1/2"            25              29                                 5
2"              17               20                                3
2 1/2"            10              12.5                              2.7
Glossary
PVC        Polyvinyl chloride pipe
G..        Galvanized iron pipe
PE         Polv ethelyn pipe, high density
B&S        Bell & spigot, cement joints
FC         Fast coupling



- 31 -
Annex 6
Project Design
1.     Most rural water and sanitation investments in Bolivia have been selected almost entirely for their
technical merits, with limited consideration of their sustainability or economic efficiency. The assumption
underlying such projects is that people have basic needs for water and sanitation that should be met,
independent of the actual demand and willingness to pay for such services. Investment decisions often are
based on poorly defined poverty assessments, which has led to low service coverage, inefficient investment,
and inadequate sustainability of services.
2.     In the absence of a policy framework for rural water and sanitation, many institutions make
investments based on their own experience and policy agenda. This approach results in externally
determined levels of service that do not reflect local desires. For instance, non-governmental organizations
like CARE favor gravity-fed water supply systems and individual connections with per capita costs ranging
from US$50 to US$200. But the UNDP-World Bank Potosi project chose more cost-effective technologies,
generally shallow wells and hand pumps shared by three to five families, with per capita construction costs
ranging from US$15 to US$40 (annex 2). The Social Investment Fund is more concerned with the
transparency and speed of the procurement process and the quality of supervision for social spending
projects. The fund pays little attention to sustainability, and its per capita costs for rural water supply
range from US$70 to US$120, including a management fee of 6 to 15 percent. Few projects receive cash
contributions from beneficiaries, but in-kind contributions of unskilled labor and local material normally
are provided, particularly in smaller communities. Regional corporations financed up to 25 percent of
investment costs until 1993, and municipalities have done so since 1994.
3.     Design principles. Community participation is the primary design principle for improving
sustainability and economic efficiency. Participation should go beyond the traditional community-based
participation model, narrowly defined as the mobilization of local groups to ratify decisions made by
outsider planners, to include ownership of, responsibility for, and decision making about water supply and
sanitation services. The proposed project will make full use of the participatory planning process devised in
the Popular Participation Law, through which communities-organized through the Organizaciones
Territoriales de Base-express their demand for water and sanitation services, take responsibility for the
management of such services, and are willing to invest in capital and recurrent costs.
4.     A second design principle is to ensure that the proposed investments are a high priority for the
community and the society. The project relies on the five-year municipal development plans and annual
operating budgets prepared by each municipality in collaboration with their Organizaciones Territoriales
de Base and Comites de Vigilancia. These plans, cleared by the regional corporations and approved by the
national public investment secretariat, allow the use of funds transferred to municipalities (paragraph 10).
The 1994 plans gave high priority to water supply and to a lesser extent to sanitation, second only to
production infrastructure and rural roads. In addition, the selection process for municipalities and
departments now allows for departments to be replaced if they lack sufficient funds to finance pre-
investment or have a history of poor performance, according to simple and transparent rules of the game
(annex 12).
5.     Least-cost and demand-driven investments can be ensured by defining low per-capita investment
grants and by maximizing the financial contribution of municipalities and communities to the project.
Grant caps also help to rectify allocative distortions of scarce public subsidies to the water and sanitation
sector. These grants were established based on the analysis of 227 rural water projects financed by the



- 32 -
Social Investment Fund from 1990 to date (table 1), and on engineering estimates obtained of about 300
small water projects during project preparation (table 2). According to the analysis of PROSABAR water
projects which were prepared under the technical criteria aiming at least-cost and demand-driven
investment, a grant cap for water supply of US$ 50 per-capita was initially established. However, after
numerous discussions with the SIF, grant caps to initiate project implementation were set at US$ 70 per-
capita for water supply, based primarily on the analysis of SIF's projects. For sanitation systems and for
latrines, values of US$ 65 per-capita and US$ 65 per-unit were set respectively. The actual investment
subsidy received by the beneficiaries will be probably lower as the project Will finance either the grant cap
or 70 percent of investmnent costs whatever is the lower value. It is expected that in he second year of
project implementation a lower value, prepared by the PROSABAR team, will be adopted for water
systems because better cost information will become available, while at the same time higher efficiency will
result in a reduction of investment cost and hence a lower investment ceiling. The financial contributions of
municipalities and communities were established by analyzing their actual payments to recent projects, and
by their willingness to accept the project's financial rules. Willingness to pay for water is high-a January
1994 survey of 604 households in peri-urban areas of Cochabamba found that households without
connections to public water systems pay water vendors US$3 per cubic meter, compared with US$0.34 per
cubic meter for households connected to the water network. Families that depend on water vendors spend,
on average, 8.2 percent of their disposable income on water.
6.     To attain long-term sustainability of water and sanitation services, even in rural areas, full cost
recovery should be pursued. Otherwise, operations and maintenance of infrastructure assets will not be
possible. This is a difficult issue for most water and sanitation projects. Communities often assume that
social infrastructure automatically will be replaced--after it has consumed its useful life--with government
support and financing. But during appraisal it was demonstrated that the long-run marginal costs of a wide
range of low-cost technologies could be afforded even by the poorest rural communities-even those with
an annual per capita cash income of US$96 (annex 10). The project will support the development of a cost
recovery policy for rural water and sanitation services, including the operational and institutional
arrangements that will be required to implement this policy. Field studies should be conducted during the
first two years of project implementation to complete the analysis made during project appraisal. Willing
municipalities and communities should test operational arrangements before the policy is launched for the
entire country.
7.     A third important element of project design emerges from the highly dispersed nature of rural
communities in Bolivia and the large economies of scale which can be achieved by grouping together
communities into packages for service delivery. This not only substantially reduces project preparation,
bidding, implementation and supervision costs, but it also promotes investment sustainability as
neighboring communities are trained together with the municipal government, thereby creating a mutual
support and technical assistance system which they can draw upon at a later date. The need for project
efficiency must be compatible with the demand-responsive nature of the project. Community, municipality
and departmental eligibility criteria have therefore been established which will bring into balance these two
concerns (see Annex 12).
8.     Project rules and the adaptive approach. Because it is difficult to predict community demand, the
financial policy and the eligibility criteria will require flexibility in project planning and implementation.
The project will rely on lessons learned in earlier phases of project execution to guide the planning and
implementation of subsequent activities. To support this "learning by doing" approach, an effective
monitoring and evaluation system will monitor project implementation. In addition, special process and
impact evaluation studies will verify if the desired incentives are in fact created by the project rules.
Lessons will be analyzed and applied to adjust project strategies and policies.



- 33 -
9.     The Social Investment Fund. The SIF will be responsible for administering the investment
component of the project. SIF established itself as an effective institution to manage social spending, with
an excellent record in IDA-financed projects. It uses IDA-approved procurement procedures and is quite
familiar with the IDA requirements for disbursement of funds, reporting and auditing. SIF also attracts
qualified personnel through competitive consulting contracts. Although political interference is common
through changes in top management, it is apparently less frequent than in most public offices in Bolivia.
The Board of SIF meets three times a week, and is accountable for the approval of all investment projects,
through simple and transparent rules. Moreover, SIF has been instrumental in policy formulation in social
sectors, especially in rural areas, because of the structural weaknesses of most sectoral institutions in
Bolivia.
10.    Until recently the cost of running SIF has been funded by the same credits and grants designed to
finance social investments, through specific components for institutional building and strengthening. Since
the approval of the Popular Participation Law, SIF is proposing to finance its operations by accounting 90
percent of investments from grants and credits from the central government and 25 percent from municipal
contributions. The excess 15 percent will finance operational cost, overhead, and a preinvestment fund.
11.    For this project, the SIF will continue to operate under this procedure. However, agreement was
reached during appraisal between the SIF, the National Secretary of Urban Affairs, the National Secretary
of Policy and Social Investment, and IDA to monitor operational costs and overhead based on productivity
indicators which introduce clear efficiency incentives and accountability (annex 18). This agreement is also
designed to a progressive decentralization of the operation of SIF, and a closer interaction with sectoral
institutions, by clearly separating policy formulation functions from investment implementation (annex 13).
12.    The gross cost of SIF was estimated at 6.3 percent of investment (US$32.0 million) distributed into
operational cost 3.5 percent, overhead 2.0 percent and logistic cost 0.8 percent. However, SIF claims that
its actual operating costs is closer to 13%. Operational cost includes direct personnel cost for evaluation of
investment proposals, management of bidding process including preparation of tender documents, follow-
up of construction execution, and quality assurance of the overall procurement process. Logistic cost
includes per-diem fees inside Bolivia, communication expenses, and vehicles.



- 34 -
Annex 6
Analysis of Cost per Capita for Bolivian Water Supply Projects
Table 1
FIS Project Cost Analysis
Based on actual construction costs without grant-cap policy
100
90 -
80
70
*~60
lm  40                                      JBeneficiaries
30
.....USS Amount
20
10
9       40      52       61      71      84       95      107     123     145      192     252
Per-capita Investment
Table 2
PROSABAR Project Cost Analysis
Based on engineering estimates and grant-cap policy
100%
90%
80%
70%
u
.2 60%
v 50%
> 40%   <  |Beneficianes
30%
.%-j'' USS amount
20%
10%
0%
1     15    25     33    40     44    49    58     63    74     84    98    106   122    151
Per-capita Investment (USS)



- 35 -
Annex 7
Technical Assistance
A.     Project Management
A.1    Support to DIXASBA/PROSABAR (US$1, 125,000)
1.     The PROSABAR staff assigned to the central project office in DINASBA will be funded through
credit proceeds, and will include the following professional and support staff: a coordinator, a community
mobilization specialist, a technical and engineering advisor, an administrator, a computer
assistant/monitoring specialist, two secretaries, and a messenger. An advisor will also be recruited for one
year to assist in project start-up activities, as well as other short-term consultants to be hired according to
specific demands approved by IDA. Office operating expenses and a small amount of equipment will also
be included in the technical assistance component. DINASBA will provide office space, furniture, and
equipment (most of which was procured through PPF funds) and pay all utilities as an input to project
management. Terms of reference for all consultants will be included in the project implementation manual.
A. 2   Support to the United Nations Development Programme (US$275, 000)
2.     Justification and design. The UNDP has a large and effective operation in Bolivia. It participated
the Potosi pilot project (annex 2) and managed the two PPFs for project preparation (paragraph). The
Government of Bolivia and the UNDP had agreed to a bridge financing for about US$3.0 million to initiate
project implementation. Moreover, during appraisal agreement was reached between the Government of
Bolivia, UNDP and IDA to request UNDP's assistance as a disbursement agent for the institutional
component of the project, under similar arrangements used for management of the PPF advance. The
administrative cost for UNDP--calculated for four years--will be funded by the project, including one full-
time project officer--equivalent to about US$40,000 a year--and 50 percent of a administrative assistant.
B.     Sector Strengthening
B. I   Capacity Building (US$1, 400, 000)
3.     The bulk of support to project management at the department level will be provided as of January
1996, by the departmental governments. In addition to office space, furniture, a four-wheel drive vehicle,
and operating expenses, each departmental government will provide the following full-time staff in the
LTNASBA unit: one director, one engineer, one social scientist, one computer specialist, one administrator,
two drivers, and one secretary.
4.     Credit proceeds will fund a technical advisor and a social advisor in each UNASBA for three years
and will provide resources for the purchase of a four-wvheel drive vehicle, water-quality testing equipment,
a computer, a printer, and a telephone and fax for each UNASBA. These advisors will be jointly recruited
by the departmental government and the DINASBA/PROSABAR team and will report to the departmental
government. Terms of reference will be included in the project implementation manual.



- 36 -
B.2    Project Dissemination (US$1 70,000)
5.     Public relations and emphasizing stakeholder consultation and dialogue contribute greatly to the
potential for sustainable implementation and demand generation. This is particularly true for projects that
require attitude changes on the part of beneficiary groups and implementation agencies. PROSABAR is a
participatory project that involves attitude changes at two levels: civil society and institutional. The civil
society (beneficiaries) must take on new responsibilities: they must participate in project design in a
democratic and participatory way, and they must assume responsibilities for deciding technical options and
assume (sustainable) responsibility and ownership for service administration, management, and operation.
At the institutional level PROSABAR, UNASBA, municipalities, and community organizations must
understand the concept of community participation and facilitate its implementation.
6.     Recognizing this, communication inputs for PROSABAR have three types of implementation:
communication for public relations, communication for consultation, and communication for change in
attitudes, ideas, and beliefs. Communities must change from being passive beneficiaries to active and
responsible managers of water systems, and project implementation agencies at the institutional level must
learn to become facilitators of the community participation process.
7.     Implementation of these different types of conmmunication will take place in two phases (roughly
corresponding to the phases of the project cycle). The first and second levels, involving communication
activities for public relations and awareness raising, will begin at project start-up in each department and
will last for six months. The third level of developing communication activities for changes in attitude will
begin after six months of raising awareness in each department. This will include communication packages
for communities in hygiene education, decision making, civil responsibilities, and so on, as well as
communication initiatives with project implementation agencies at the institutional level.
8.     Public relations. This initiative will develop a logo for PROSABAR (through a competition
involving communities and municipalities, as a way of starting owvnership); prepare printed pamphlets and
posters on PROSABAR conditionalities; distribute material to institutions (UNASBAs, municipalities, and
communities); and hold launching workshops with stakeholders on PROSABAR and its conditionalities.
9.     Consultation. This will involve surveying communication initiatives of other organizations (United
Nations Children's Fund, Johns Hopkins, ERBOL, and so on) for lessons leamed and deliver public
relations material for inclusion in their communication activities; and developing a relationship with local
radio in each province (or municipality) and preparing public service messages on PROSABAR and its
conditionalities for broadcast. This effort will be coordinated with each municipality since the broadcast
also will contain the time and date of a follow-up meeting for community leaders. In addition, the project
will prepare cassettes on PROSABAR for use at markets and health posts, and will distribute public
relations material at the same time.
10.    Changing attitudes. Attitudes will be changed by identifying target audiences at the community
and institutional levels. Using rapid appraisal methodology-and information from other project
intermediaries---this wvill assess the knowledge, attitudes, and practices of each group. At the community
level this initiative will develop four pilot radio packages through the association of local educational radio
stations (ERBOL), making use of soap operas and dramas to involve communities in the design for hygiene
education, project management, the role of women, and so on. At the institutional level this initiative will
develop discussions with stakeholders to assist their understanding of the community participation model
and to learn their fears and constraints. Finally, the initiative will use hand-held camcorders to film group



- 37 -
discussions at all levels and play them back to the groups to promote further discussion.
B. 3          Community Development (US$3, 300, 000)
11.    The lessons learned, particularly over the past decade, indicate that the sustainability of water and
sanitation services is contingent on a careful balance between resource allocation for service delivery and
development of local capacity. Consequently, a major focus for PROSABAR is technical assistance for
community development. This capacity-building goes beyond technical advice on operations and
maintenance, management issues, and financial planning, moving into the realm of behaviors and attitudes.
12.    The community development program will be dedicated to funding activities at the community level
that will ensure the quality, sustainability, and effective use of the infrastructure. Intermediary
organizations (annex 9) will be contracted at the department level by the UNASBAs to assist the
comrmunities in implementing the following .4;Livities:
*  analyzing and selecting the desired level of service;
*  collecting baseline socioeconomic and water resource data;
*  ensuring the full participation of all community members;
*  developing a financing plan for both capital and recurrent costs;
*  organizing a water committee for construction and operations and maintenance;
* undertaking hygiene and environmental education and promoting behavior change;
*  where appropriate, assisting in self-construction or community supervision of the contractors during
works construction;
*  establishing a tariff structure and financial management scheme for water and sanitation;
*  training community operators in operations and maintenance and in the importance of a water quality
control system;
*  ensuring links between the community and municipal government, through the semiannual completion
of water system monitoring sheets.
These activities require interventions in the communities before, during, and after system construction, and
require the establishment of trust and confidence between the community and the intermediary.
13.    Ideally, one large intermediary would be contracted per department, on an annual basis and for a
defined number of communities and municipalities. This intermediary could use several smaller
intermediaries for the implementation of project activities in smaller geographical areas. Given that there
are few qualified intermediaries in Bolivia and that this type of scattered work may not be financially
attractive to international firms, in some instances intermediaries will have to be hired to implement smaller
packages, of a minimum fifteen communities. Terms of reference for selecting the intermediary will be
agreed to before credit negotiations, and will be included in the project implementation manual.
B. 4   Management Information System (US$100, 000)
14.    Following a programmatic approach, whereby lessons learned during early stages are fed back into
project implementation, the project will require a powerful management information system (MIS), to track
investments and contracts and to analyze data relating processes and costs to physical results and impacts.



- 38 -
15.    The MIS for the project, which is being developed during project preparation, will build on the
system used by the Social Investment Fund to track investments and contracts (this system is being
evaluated and probably will be upgraded during the next six months), and will incorporate a few additional
indicators that are required for IDA's and PROSABAR's reporting requirements (annex 15, 18). The
system needs to be as simple as possible and each indicator needs to be justified in terms of who will input
the data and who will use it. Additional community-level baseline and impact assessment data will be
collected during project implementation and used for impact evaluation, however, this will be maintained at
the UNASBA level in order to reduce the amount of information contained in the project's MIS.
16.    The MIS will be installed in each UNASBA and users manuals produced. Programmers will be
trained, including those assigned from the UNASBAs. In addition, the MIS will need to be evaluated and
improved after the first two years of project implementation.
B.5    Water Quality (US$150,000)
17.    The water quality program of the project will involve the monitoring of the quality of drinking
water through the collection and analysis of water samples in the project communities. This program is
designed in two phases the first is under the responsibility of the UNASBAs and municipalities; the second
under the municipalities and the communities. Collection of samples will be a responsibility of
municipalities and communities with guidance, coordination, and quality control of the UNASBAs.
Laboratory analysis of water samples will be financed through the project for a maximum of two years in
each municipality. Municipalities will assume the cost of analysis after two years. Private labs and
universities will be selected on a competitive basis to perform the analysis. The project will supply field
water testing equipment to each UNASBA qualified to the program (component B. 1). Sampling procedures
including frequency are included in the Project Design Manual. Water standards are included in annex 5. It
is estimated based on recent experiences in Bolivia that analysis will cost about US$15 per sample, on the
average.
B. 6   Research and Development (US$200, 000)
18.    A limited amount of resources is available for testing and developing low-cost water and sanitation
technologies and/or the design of methodologies and training materials for the participation of communities
in investment subprojects. The results of these pilot activities will be disseminated and eventually
mainstreamed into the investment package. Examples of pilot projects include low-cost deep well
technologies, hygiene and environmental education classes in municipal school districts as a complement to
the PROSABAR investment program, water quality testing directly by the municipal government,
educational field days at local markets using women's groups, and so on.
19.    The funds will be available from DINASBAtPROSABAR based on proposals submitted by the
UNASBAs, although proposals also may be prepared directly by municipalities or intermediaries. Each
pilot project will have the following steps: project design and proposal preparation, agreements reached
with the relevant partner agencies (for example, the National Secretary of Education, the National
Secretary of Rural Development, and so on), project implementation, result evaluation, documentation and
dissemination, and a proposal for scaling up.
B. 7   Impact and Process Evaluation (US$200, 000)
20.    Given the programmatic nature of PROSABAR and the wealth of experience that will be acquired
through the decentralized implementation model-which will make use of a wide array of intermediaries



- 39 -
from the private and non-governmental sectors-funds will be allocated to undertake special impact and
process evaluation studies to identify and share best practices.
21.    Three categories of evaluation will take place: institutional performance, project rules and
policies and impact on beneficiaries. The first will evaluate the adequacy, incentives and dynamics of key
institutions to provide/support water and sanitation services, including DINASBA, PROSABAR,
UNASBA, regional and municipal government, and community organizations. It will evaluate the decision
making process for effective implementation of the project and for sustainability of services, and will
include specific impact indicators of process efficiency at different stages of the project implementation
cycle (annex 18). The second will monitor the application of the project rules: the financial policy,
eligibility and prioritization criteria to ensure a demand-driven approach and the integration of training and
community development with the investments. Based on the results achieved, the rules may be modified
during project implementation. The third will evaluate impact on beneficiary communities: time used in
hauling water, water consumption patterns, hygiene and health improvements, etc. Independent consultants-
auditors would be hired in a competitive basis to perform impact evaluations, with results presented on
public hearings.
B.8    Studies (US$280,000)
22.    The three primary studies will be to: (i) assist the government in developing a regulatory
framework for the sector (linked to the SIRESE - law on sector regulation- initiative); (ii) elevating the
importance of the water and sanitation sector within the executive structure and integrating the lead sector
agency (DINASBA) into the civil service reform process; and (iii) developing a cost recovery policy for
rural water and sanitation (annex 6). These activities will be implemented by national and international
consultants. Although the NSUA will be directly responsible for preparing the terms of reference and
contracting and supervising the work, DINASBAIPROSABAR will administer the funds as part of the
project's technical assistance component.
B. 9   Monitoring and Evaluation
23.    The monitoring and evaluation activities of the project have three clients: IDA, to measure project
performance; PROSABAR, to learn lessons from experience and feedback for improved project
implementation; and the water and sanitation sector as a whole, to elevate project results to national policy
formulation. PROSABAR will have primary responsibilities for project monitoring and evaluation. The
resources allocated and the activities performed in the Management Information System (B.4), the Impact
Evaluation (B.7) and Workshop (C.5) subcomponents of the project will all contribute to the monitoring,
evaluation and result analysis of the project. Furthermore, the activities relating to project monitoring'and
evaluation will benefit from direct technical assistance provided by the UNDP-World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program, based in La Paz. UNDP is providing $320,000 over four years to support this
assistance.
C.     Training
C.]    Municipal and Departmental governments (US$400, 000)
24.    Although the municipal governments will receive initial training from the contracted intermediary
in facility administration, operations, and maintenance as part of the community development program (see
section B.3), it is important that long-term institutional links be established between the municipal



- 40 -
governments and the UNASBA in order to ensure the sustainability and monitoring of state-funded sectoral
investments. In addition to the UNASBA being able to provide a technical assistance and backstopping
function, the following areas of long-term support need to be provided to the newly emerging municipal
governments: tariff setting, water quality control, sector information system and monitoring of municipal
and community system functioning, and assistance in investment and replacement planning and financing.
25.    This technical assistance program is designed to be demand responsive to both the UNASBAs and
the municipal governments. A fixed sum will be set aside in DINASBA/PROSABAR, and will be available
upon request from the UJNASBAs through the submission of short proposals for specific interventions.
Funds will be available to finance consultancy services, equipment (such as for water quality testing,
computer software, and training materials), and seminars and workshops. The demand eventually will have
to come from the municipal governments, who will be required to share costs and to buy into this technical
assistance.
C. 2   Community Organizations (US$270, 000)
26.    Although most rural water supply projects in Bolivia contain intensive programs for training
community water committees and system administrators and operators in simple operations and
maintenance tasks, these are short-term, one-shot courses implemented during the construction period.
Furthermore, no program exists in Bolivia that tests, certifies, and registers system operators.
27.    Not only would a certification program be a first step toward ensuring that staff being trained
through any investment activity (government-sponsored or non-govenmmental) has developed the required
skills to perform their tasks, a testing program of this nature could be used to evaluate the quality and
guarantee the consistency of the training imparted by the wide range of intermediaries hired throughout the
project implementation phase.
28.    An initial consultancy, estimated at US$15,000, would undertake three principal tasks: defining the
skills required for operators and administrators for different technology options and population sizes,
identifying key indicators that would be used to test and certify trainees (these should be practical);
identifying institutional options for implementation of the program, specifying one coordinating agency at
the national level (possibly the Association of Water Utilities), determining the role of the UNASBAs and
municipal govemments, identifying potential institutions that could deliver the training and certification,
and developing a specific workplan and budget for the certification program. It is expected that one
national agency would undertake testing and certification programs within each of the departments
participating in PROSABAR.
C. 3   Professional and Manufacturers Associations (US$ 70, 000)
29.    With the objective of strengthening the human resources that work in the sector, PROSABAR will
promote at least two courses a year, each lasting three days, with intemationally recognized professors.
Participants will pay the full cost of the course, and the course will be certified by the World Bank.
Planning of these courses will be on an annual basis, in accordance with the identified demand of Bolivian
sector professionals and manufacturers associations. The course contents will respond to themes such as
management of rural water and sanitation projects, appropriate technologies, participatory approaches
leading to sustainability, monitoring and evaluation of projects, and wastewater treatment.
C. 4   Implementing Agencies (US$150 000)



- 41 -
30.    At the institutional level, planners and decision-makers (DINASBA) should be trained on sector
problem analysis, solution identification, policy formulation, and strategy development. Other institutional
actors (UNASBA, municipal governments,and communities) require sensitization to PROSABAR and
community participation issues, understanding of participatory methodologies and interpersonal
communication skills, adult education techniques, and appreciation of the complexities of PROSABAR
implementation and the Popular Participation Law. The intermediaries also need exposure to participatory
rural appraisal, participatory training (such as the SARAR techniques developed in the Potosi pilot
project), and rapid rural appraisal methods.
C.5    Workshops (USS210,000)
31.    Workshops are an effective tool to coordinate and exchange experiences in development projects.
In demand-driven projects this is an essential feature of the design to incorporate lessons learned in earlier
phases of project execution to guide the planning and implementation of subsequent activities. Three kinds
of workshops will be organized, as follows:
*  General evaluation. At the end of each year, but before presentation of annual consolidated report to
IDA, a workshop will be held to evaluate project performance and proposals for adjustments.
*  Specific evaluation. Workshops will be organized on-demand to review specific topics, including
among others: the financial policy, approaches to community mobilization, the design manual, etc.
* Lessons learned. Annual workshops might be organized for project entities, consultants, and NGOs, to
exchange experiences and lessons learned.
All workshops will be documented and summary reports will be distributed upon request. A small fee will
be charged to cover publication expenses.



Annex 8
Detailed Project Cost
Project Investment Plan
Component                   USS       %       1a3           1SS4         1996         1996         1997         1998         199          2000         Total
1. Infrastructure Component
A Water Supply                         26,061,000  54.3                                292,000    5,110,000    7.300,000    7,300,000    3,869,000    2,190,000    26.061.000
8. Sandation                            9,639,000  20.1                                108,000    1,890,000    2,700,000    2,700.000    1,431.000      810,000     9,639,000
Component sub total                    36,700,000  74.4                                400,000    7,000,000   10,0    0     10,000,000   6,300,000     3,000,000   3C,700,000
11. Institutonal Component
A Project Management
A.1 DINASBAIPROSABAR                    1,125,000   2.3                                             300,000      250,000      250,000      250,000       75,000     1,125.000
A.2 U.N. Development Program             275,000    06                                  25,000       50,000       50,000       50.000       50,000       50,000      275,000
Sub total                1,400,000   2.9                                 25,000      350,000      300,000      300,000      300.000      125.000     1.400.000
B Sector Strengthening
B.1 Capacity Building                   1,400,000  2 9                                              670,000      365,000      365,000                               1,400,000
B 2 Project Dissemination                170,000   0.4                                 50,000       30,000        30,000       30,000       30,000                   170,000
B.3 Community Development               3,300,000  6 9                                 100,000      750,000    1,100,000      650,000      400,000      300,000     3,300,000
B.4 Management Information System        100,000   0 2                                              40,000        10,000       10,000       10,000       30,000      100,000
B.5 Water Quality                        150,000   0 3                                              50,000        25,000       25,000       25,000       25,000      150,000
B 6 Research and Development             200,000   0.4                                              20,000        30,000       50,000       50.000       50,000      200.000
B.7 Impact Evaluation                    200,000   0 4                                               40,000       40,000       40,000       40,000       40,000      200,000
B.8 Studies                              280,000   0 6                                              50,000       150,000       40,000       40,000                   280,000
Sub total                5,800,000  12.1                                150,000     1,650,000    1,750,000    1,210,000     595,000      445,000     5,800,000
C Training
C.1 Municipal and Regional Govemment     400,000   0.8                                              60,000       100,000       80,000       80,000       80,000      400,000
C 2 Community Organizations              270,000   0 6                                              30,000        40.000       50,000       70,000       80,000      270,000
C.3 Professional and Manufacturers Associatio  70,000  01                                           30,000        10,000       10,000       10.000       10,000       70,000
C.4 Implementing Agencies                150,000   0.3                                              50,000        50,000       50,000                                150,000
C.5 Workshops                            210,000   0 4                                              50,000        50,000       30,000       30,000       50,000      210,000
Sub total                1,100,000   2 3                                             220,000      250,000      220,000      190,000      220,000     1,1 0,000
Component sub total                     8,30,00    17.3                                1 76,00W   2,220,0W     2,300,000    1        ,730,00W  1086,000  790,0W     8,3W,0W
111. Preinvestment                      2,300      4.8                                 4W00W00      40W,00W      6W,0W_       CW,0W0       300,00W                  2,300,000
IV. PPF IProlec Preraton and Start-up)  1,700,000  3.5      2,0W         700000       800,000
ToPar                                  48,000,0W   100 _    20000        700,000     1,776,000    9,620,000   12,S00,000   12,330,000     6,686,000    3,790,0     48,00,000



Annex 8
Detailed Project Cost
Sources of Financing
Component                  Project Cost     %           IDA                   OPEC Fund        %         Parallel       %       Departm.ntat MunilcIpalities CommuntIes   NSUA I       Regional
usS                                                                      Funds (SIF-              Governments     125%)         (5%)       DINASSA     Governments
1 Infrastructure Component
A Water Supply                             26,061,000         54 3    7,30D.000        36 5    3,650.O0O        73.0     7.300,WW        73.0                 6,507,950     1,303,050
B Sanitation                                9,639,000         201     2,700,OD        13.5    1.350,000        27.0    2,700,00         270                   2,407.050      481,950
Component sub total                       3J.700,000          74.4   10,000.000        50.0    5,000,000         100    10,000,000         100                 8,915,000     1,785,000  . ..... _   '   . .......
11. Institutional Component
A Project Management
A 1 DINASBAIPROSABAR                         1,125,000         2.3                                                                                                                           4%00
A 2 U N Development Program                   275.000          0 6
Sub total                   1,400W,W0         2 9    1,400.000          7 0                                                                                                 40,000
3 Sector Strengthening
B 1 Capacity Building                        1,400,000         2 9                                                                                                                                     3,000,000
B 2 Project Dissemination                     170,000           0 4
B 3 Community Development                   3,300,W00          6 9
B 4 Management Information System             100,000          0.2
B5 WaterQuality                               150,000          0.3
B 6 Research and Development                  200,000          0 4
B 7 Impact Evaluation                         200,000          0 4
B 8 Studies                                   280,000          0 6
Sub total                   5,800,000         12 1   5,800.O00         29 0                                                                                                            3.000,000
C Training
C I Municipal and Regional Government         400,000          0 8
C 2 Communnty Organzations                    270,000          0 6
C 3 Professional and Manufacturers Associatjons  70,000        0 1
C 4 Implementing Agencies                     150,000          0 3
C 5 Workshops                                 210,000          0 4
Sub total                   t.100.000         2 3    1,100,000          5.5
Component sub total                         8.300,000         17.3 t   ,300.000        41.5                                                                                                  40.00W    3.10.0001
Ill. Prelnvestment                          2,300.000          4.8 f                                                                              2,300,h00 
IV. PPF (Prolect Preparation and Start-up)  1,700,000          3.5    1,700,000         8.5
Total                                      48.000,000          100   20.000,000         100    5,000,000         100    10,000,000         100    2,300,000     8,915,000    1,785,000       4,0       3,0W,00
Counterpart Expenses, not included in project cost



-44-
Annex 9
Indigenous and Gender Issues
Strategies to Facilitate Community Participation
1.    Information and understanding of communities is the first step toward achieving demand generation
and sustainable use of water and sanitation systems. The informnation gathered also establishes baseline
data for further work on designing technical assistance and capacity-building components. Efforts to
facilitate community participation in indigenous communities are constrained by the lack of a
comprehensive definition of indigenous peoples to clarify the different ethnic groups that reside within
project communities. To address this issue, this annex provides an overview of the indigenous peoples in
Bolivia. The annex analyzes whether the needs and perspectives of communities, particularly indigenous
communities, have been taken into account in project design. It also outlines the project's strategy for
bringing about community participation and demand generation.
2.     The definition used to identify indigenous peoples determines the quality of data. Although Bolivia
has large indigenous communities, the definition used in recent censuses (1988 and 1992) and household
surveys is superficial. First, because language is the key indicator to identify whether a person belongs to
an indigenous group. Second, because it only covers people over six years of age. Third, because the term
campesino has been used in Bolivia as synonymous with indigenous peoples, thus transforming an ethnic
concept into an occupation and class category.
3.     An operational definition must be composed of a set of indicators that captures the socioeconomic
characteristics and cultural uniqueness of an ethnic group. The Popular Participation Law defines
indigenous peoples as the descendants of populations living in a geographic region before or during
colonization and that currently live within the national territory. They have their own history, social
organization, language, and culture, identify themselves as members of an indigenous group, and may
retain all or part of their social, economic, cultural, and political institutions. This more comprehensive
definition must be taken into account by the Bureau of Census.
4.     Demographic and socioeconomic assessment. Bolivia is a multiethnic, multilingual, rural country.
There are more than thirty vernacular languages. Most of them are versions of Quechua and Aymara; other
linguistic families include Arawakan, Chapacuran, Uru-Chipaya, Mataco-Maca, Paonan, and Tupi.
According to the 1992 census, about 63 percent of the population is rural. Indigenous peoples account for
about half of the total population and 65 percent of the rural population. Quechua (58 percent) and Aymara
(40 percent) are the predominant indigenous ethnic groups. The Quechua monolingual-speaking peoples
account for 28 percent of the total population; Aymaras monolingual-speaking account for 19 percent.
About 38 of the rural population is Quechua monolingual, about 23 percent is Aymara monolingual.
5.     Beginning in July 1995, PROSABAR will operate in the departments of La Paz, Chuquisaca,
Cochabamba, and Potosi, covering 33 percent of the national territory. It also will cover most of the rural
population. In Chuquisaca, for instance, 67.5 percent of the population is rural. Although population
density is very low in Bolivia (6 persons per square kilometer), PROSABAR will deliver services to the
most highly populated departments, such as Cochabamba (20 persons per square kilometer) and La Paz
(15 persons per square kilometer). PROSABAR will be implemented in the most indigenous departments of
the country. Potosi, Cochabamba, and Chuquisaca are Quechua territories; La Paz is basically an Aymara
territory. In Potosi 76 percent of the total population is indigenous, 67 percent are Quechuas, and 85
percent live in rural areas. In Cochabamba 66 percent of the population is indigenous, 6 Ipercent are
Quechuas, and 79 percent live in rural areas. In Chuquisaca indigenous peoples account for 54 percent and



-46-
appropriate technical options. PROSABAR will continue strengthening popular participation, building up
the capacity of NGOs to promote active beneficiary participation. The objective is to stress community
ownership to ensure long-term institutional sustainability once the project is finished. PROSABAR
organized a workshop with thirty NGOs that are evaluating the effectiveness of participatory approaches to
determine ways of improving them, and to disseminate the approach to be used in PROSABAR for
community mobilization.
12.    Since data and specific information are needed to understand the culture of indigenous groups and
the role of women in their societies, PROSABAR should work with NGOs to build up local information
systems. By organizing surveys, PROSABAR will systematically consult, monitor, and evaluate the
effectiveness of beneficiaries' involvement. The results will be used to strengthen the institutional capacity
of NGOs to work with communities. A series of short workshops and seminars will be organized to ensure
that ethnic minorities and women are represented in local committees and that their voice is taken into
account in all phases of the project. The evaluation of their participation will contribute to the capacity of
NGOs to promote beneficiary involvement.
13.    As the Secretaria Nacional de Participaci6n Popular (SNPP) has expressed-and IDA and
PROSABAR concur-that the biggest challenge to promoting community participation involves building
consensus among stakeholders, particularly among local institutions such as municipalities and
UNASBAS, in the meaning and development of participation and ownership. Changing the mentality of
these institutions, which have been steeped in centralist, top-down approaches for decades, is a major
challenge.
14.    A clear understanding of the meaning of community participation and its importance is crucial to
the success of the project. The process of defining conmnunity participation within the project will begin
with training the PROSABAR team. All stakeholders (including PROSABAR) must share the same
conceptual and methodological framework. Workshops will be organized among PROSABAR officials and
local stakeholders to discuss community participation and what it means and to participate in SARAR
techniques to get a feel for the methodologies used in the field to help bring about community
decisionmaking.
15.    The Government of Bolivia has recognized that effective community participation requires giving
back to people and communities their right to make decisions that affect their lives. The Popular
Participation Law outlines a participatory planning process through which Organizaciones Territoriales de
Base (OTBs) can express their demand for services in health, education, sports, and infrastructure (roads).
About 20 percent of funds normally allocated to regional development corporations have been sent to
municipalities to implenment this participatory process, which PROSABAR strongly supports.
16.    Relationships between PROSABAR and local organizations (OTBs, UNASBAS, municipalities,
regional development corporations) will be assessed and strengthened. PROSABAR will help to build the
capacity of local organizations, organizing seminars and workshops to provide technical assistance in such
areas as community participation techniques (including social and cultural assessment, social behavior,
consultation meetings, gender issues, and ethnic and gender participation in local committees) and
management skills (including administration, finance, and maintenance). Even though the regional
development corporations have started providing courses on administration, accounting, and so on, there is
a major need to assist municipalities in changing attitudes, to help them respect indigenous knowledge, to
leam skills in communication planning, and to fully understand the community participation process. This
same type of capacity-building is required for the UNASBAs, who will be playing an increasingly
important role in PROSABAR (annex 7).



-45-
are mainly rural Quechuas (51 percent). The Aymaras live on the Antiplano, the Andean highlands, a
geographical zone of about 170,000 square kilometers at medium elevation of 4,000 meters above sea
level, spread out over Lake Titicaca, extending into the south of the country. In the department, La Paz, 59
percent of the population is indigenous, 51 percent is Aymara, and 70 percent reside in rural areas next to
the lake.
6.     The lack of water and sanitation systems are crucial social problems in Bolivia. Only 24 percent of
the rural populations have access to clean water and just 18 percent have latrines. The water and sanitation
systems are particularly weak in the four PROSABAR departments. In Chuquisaca, for example, 56
percent of the population is rural and only 18.2 percent has access to clean water and 7.5 percent has
latrines. In La Paz only 24 percent of the rural population has clean water and 15 percent has latrines. The
situation is worse in Potosi-only 7 percent of rural people have latrines and 22 percent have a water
system. The child mortality rate in rural areas is 100 per 1,000 live births in Chuquisaca, 129 per 1,000 in
Potosi, 94 per 1,000 in Cochabamba, and 81 per 1,000 in La Paz.
7.     Twenty percent of the total population and thirty-seven percent of the rural population is illiterate.
PROSABAR will be implemented in departments with the highest illiteracy rates. Illiteracy in Chuquisaca
is 54 percent, and in Potosi it is 5 1 percent, representing the highest illiteracy rates registered in rural areas
in the entire country.'
8.     IDA and PROSABAR agree that it is critical to understand the culture and forms of social
organizations of indigenous groups, and that it is key to understand the role of women in indigenous
societies and in the PROSABAR project. In the Aymara communities 40 percent of the population are
women, is the Quechua population 58 percent is female. In indigenous societies leadership and participation
in decisionmaking processes are activities confined to males. Although women play the primary role in
resolving water and sanitation needs for their families, they play no role in decisionmaking. Women are
responsible for disposing child feces, implementing proper hygiene practices, carrying and using water, and
deciding how best to use their time and energy. Male migration and absence during harvests mean that
women and children remain in villages by themselves, adversely affected by inadequate water and
sanitation systems. Despite these circumstances, they have no formal represenitation in local water and
sanitation committees. Since women migrate less than men, they are the key stakeholders for institutional
and management sustainability. National counterparts and local NGOs should be encouraged to involve
women in decisionmaking processes to improve project sustainability and economic efficiency.
9.     Several water projects show that there is a cause and effect relationship hetween participation and
project performance (Isham and Narayan 1995). Encouraging beneficiary participation through active local
NGOs brings to the vanguard such key issues as the importance of incorporating indigenous culture and the
role of women into the design and management of a project.
10.    The skills of the users, predominantly women, at the local level have to be expanded and
upgraded. Women should be trained in planning, implementation, management, and monitoring of
sanitation, hygiene, and water services. Additional training for community organization also is needed. At
the national level government planners and decisionmakers should be trained on sector problem analysis,
solution identification, policy formulation, and strategy development. Gender awareness needs to be
promoted at the local level.
11.    Community participation. PROSABAR has successfully incorporated communities' views and
preferences into project design. Umbrella and local NGOs have played a key role in promoting beneficiary
participation and in creating water and sanitation local committees in charge of identifying and selecting



-47-
17.    PROSABAR has recognized the need to work through intermediaries such as NGOs or private
consultants to strengthen community-based organizations and to mediate between community groups and
government. Although this is a widely recognized model that has worked for a variety of Bank-financed
development programs, it is still a critical issue. In the selection of NGOs it is always necessary to evaluate
which sectors are included or excluded. For PROSABAR it is important to work with NGOs that are
legally established, that maintain mature relationships with the government, that have equal gender
representation, and that take ethnic issues seriously. It is crucial to work with NGOs that have a great deal
of accountability and that democratically consult beneficiaries (attachment 1).
18.    The role of intermediaries is to serve as interlocutors between IDA, PROSABAR, and the
beneficiaries. Internediaries should contribute to strengthening the ability of communities to control health
aspects of their lives by making informed choices on water systems and sanitation interventions. The
relationship that must be built between communities and intermediaries cannot be rushed, nor does it
necessarily conform to an extemal schedule. For this type of relationship to develop it is important that the
same intermediary be involved with the community from the beginning of the project through the post-
investment phase (attachment 2).
19.    Experience in other projects has led to the understanding that the use of communication methods
for awareness raising, consultation, and public hearings contributes greatly to the potential for sustainable
implementation. This is particularly true for projects that require behavioral change on the part of
beneficiary groups and implementors.
20.    It is recommended that the social component of PROSABAR be strengthened by the addition of
one staff member with a social focus. A team of two people strengthening the social process is much more
effective than one person working alone. Moreover, the technical assistance component of PROSABAR
focusing on the social component requires additional staff to coordinate workshops, backstop
intermediaries responsible for training, prepare terms of reference, and so on.
Table 1:
Percentage of Ethnic Group and Gender Indigenous Population, 1992
Total Population  Total    Quechua    Aymara     Guarani     Others
Indigenous
Population
Total        49.0       28.1       19.3       0.8        0.5
Males        48.0       28.0       20.0        0.8        0.5
Females       49.0       28.4       19.3        0.7        0.4
Gender Composition within indigenous population by ethnic roup, 1992
Indigenous    Quechua    Aymara  | Guarani     Others
Population                       l
Total        58.0       40.0   1    1.6       0.4
Males        58.0       40.0   j    1.7        0.3
Females       58.0       39.0   1    1.5        1.5
Percentage of Ind enous Group by Urban and Rural Area
Indigenous     Urban      Rural
Population
Total        37.4       62.6
Quechua       55.0       45.0
Aymnara       43.5       56.5
Guarani        1.0       99.0
Others        0.5        99.5



48-
Criteria for Intermediary Selection
Experience                                      The potential intermediary will have been actively and
demonstrably effective in at least one of the following
fields over the period of one year:
* community development and social mobilization;
*  provision of water supply, sanitation, or related
facilities (such as education, health, and so on); or
.planning and project development at the grassroots level.
Legal status                                    Intermediaries would be duly registered.
Affiliation                                     Intermediaries would not have partisan political
affiliation or be subject to the directions of any foreign
government.
Membership                                      Except in gender-specific organizations, membership
would be open to men and women.
Financial management                            Potential intermediaries would have a bank account
(current) in sound operation, an adequate and open
accounting system, and a record of sound financial
management and stability.
Management and administrative capacities        The intermediary would have proven management and
administrative capabilities sufficient to plan, supervise,
and monitor activities pertaining to social mobilization.
Accountability                                  The executive of the organization will have been elected
by the membership through an open process and will
have demonstrated accountability through verifiable
reports.
Technical competence                            Ideally, the intermediary will have sufficient technical
know-how or experience to assist the community when
interacting with the contractor over project design
Deployment                                      The intermediary will be able to deploy field staff to
rural areas for extended and intensive community level
work.



-49-
Social Strategy Matrix
Dissemination               To begin generating demand, PROSABAR should initiate public relations and
awareness raising for PROSABAR (and conditions) and communication through
printed material and mass media (local radio). Community interest in
PROSABAR could be generated by announcing local consultation meetings
between municipal government and community leaders to explain PROSABAR
and its conditionalities.
Community request           The capacity-building process begins by strengthening municipal governments'
ability to facilitate the consultative process through participatory meetings and
interpersonal communication skills. After the participatory consultation meetings
between municipal government and community leaders on PROSABAR
conditionalities, the community leaders should go back to the community to
explain PROSABAR conditionalities. The communities can then decide whether
to continue; if so, they submit a written request. The municipalities consolidate
the requests, analyze their potential, and send the requests to UNASBA.
UNASBA contracts an intermediary to work with communities under clear terms
of reference.
Pre-investment              The intermediary works with communities to establish:
* baseline data (social and demographic);
*  community organization (gender awareness);
* technical choice and cost recovery mechanisms;
*  agreement between communities and   municipal governments on
coparticipation;
that the community contributes 5 percent of costs and the municipal
government contributes 25 percent of costs;
Municipal governments send the package to UNASBA and the Social Investment
Fund, and the fund contracts construction.
Investment and construction  Construction begins with 30 percent (community and municipality) of total costs
according to technical options. Construction is supervised by the community and
intermediary. The intermediary continues the process of capacity-building by
performing management, administration, and accounting duties, as well as
hygiene education. The communication pilot project on attitudinal change begins.
Post-construction           *   Municipal government and UNASBA approve the scheme after three or
four months.
* The intermediary continues capacity-building with the community,
providing financial management, operations and maintenance, and
supervision of scheme operators.
* Pilot communication initiative continues.



-50-
Annex 10
Economic Analysis: Methodology and Results
A. Introduction
1.     The economic rate of return was calculated by comparing the costs and benefits of household water
and sanitation services in two scenarios: one in which the project is implemented and one in which the
project is not implemented. All costs and benefits used in the analysis are expressed in constant prices of
April 1995. The financial prices were converted into economic prices by adjusting them for the impact of
taxes and subsidies. In addition, shadow prices for unskilled labor was estimated at 0.70. The shadow
price of the exchange rate was calculated at 0.95.
2.     One of the main characteristics of the PROSABAR projects is its demand driven character. The
rural population is given the choice to select from different technological options. Moreover, even in those
cases where technology options for water supply are completely dictated by the available water resources,
communities will have the possibility to choose from different service levels, which include house
connections, standpipes and handpumps. For all these technology options and service levels, costs and
benefits were calculated. Because each technical option has its own economic characteristics, and the mix
of subprojects to be financed under the project will be demand-driven, calculating the overall costs and
benefits of the total project is difficult. However, based on the experience gained in the Yacupaj pilot
project and the SIF-financed rural water supply and sanitation projects, we have developed a possible
configuration of the different technology options and service levels, which has been used to calculate the
costs and benefits of the total project.
3.     The demand for sanitary facilities appears to be more limited than that for water supply, especially
in low-density, small rural settlements. Although there are substantial health and environmental benefits
associated with the improvement of sanitary facilities, it is quite likely that demand for this type of services
has to be generated through an extensive process of education and information. In the calculation of the
costs and benefits of the total PROSABAR project, the costs and benefits associated with the different
sanitary options have been included.
B. Calculation of Project Benefits
4.     The economic justification for the project is based on the benefits it would generate in the form of
time savings, health benefits, productivity and institutional benefits. The implementation of the
PROSABAR project will make water available closer to where households need it. Thus, households can
substantially reduce the time needed to travel to and from water resources. These time savings from
improved water supplies are a major benefit, especially for the women as hauling water is primarily their
responsibility. Distances to water sources vary considerably. In the Yacupaj project, rural dwellers had to
haul water over distances up to 9 km. Currently, rural households spend on average almost one hour per
day on fetching water. It is obvious that time savings vary considerably depending on the service level that
the conmmunities will select. One of the major problems in estimating time savings is the lack of reliable
data with regard to the consumption of water. This problem is aggravated by the fact that water
consumption patterns in Bolivia substantially differ between climatic zones. In the Altiplano, water
consumption could be as low as 5 lcd, whereas in the milder valleys water consumption could be close to



-51-
20 to 25 lcd. It has therefore been assumed that households consume on average 15 lcd. The value of time
savings for the economic analysis is based on the assumption, that women can use the time savings by
diverting their time to productive activities. Economically productive work, such as farming, livestock
maintenance and cottage industries is valued at the wage rate in rural communities which is given at Bs. 10
per day. This wage rate is adjusted as it is assumed that only 60 percent of the time savings can be used
productively against the prevailing rural wage rate. Subsequently, this wage rate is converted into an
economic rural wage rate.
5.     There are also health benefits associated with improved water supply and sanitation. The major
disease related to inadequate water supplies and sanitation are diarrheas that primarily affect children under
5 years old. The health benefits which have been calculated only involve the health benefits that affect
young children. The impact of improved water supply on the number of episodes of diarrheaic diseases of
children under 5 years old will depend on the service level chosen. In the case of standpipes and
handpumps, the number of episodes will decline, but the decrease will be limited because water still has to
be hauled over a certain distance. Based on the results from an evaluation study of the Yacupay pilot
project, episodes of diarrhea will decline by about 50 to 55 percent for handpumps and standpipes. The
number of episodes will decrease by about 90 percent in the case of house connections'.
6.     The first health benefit relates to saved lives. Each year, about 15,000 children under five years old
die of diarrhea2. For each technology and service level, infant mortality due to diarrheal diseases has been
calculated. A second benefit relates to the cases of diarrhea wvhich are registered in hospital and health
posts and are subsequently treated. The number of cases actually treated in hospitals and health posts is
low. The costs associated with this treatment is calculated at Bs.60. These costs do not include transport
cost to and from the hospital or health post, and therefore underestimate the actual health benefits. A third
benefit relates to the costs of diarrhea that do not receive formal treatment, but involve medical costs
anyway. According to the already-mentioned evaluation study that took place in a number of communities
that were served by the Yacupaj pilot project, about 68 percent of the households used ORS (Oral
Rehydration Salts) or similar type of treatments to cure diarrheas. The costs of ORS are estimated at about
Bs.1.50 per episode.
7.     In the Yacupaj evaluation study, 12.7 percent of the households used the increased availability of
water for horticultural purposes. The size of the plot used for horticulture, and hence the productivity
benefits it will generate, is dependent of the technology and service level chosen. The produce has been
valued against financial product prices that have been converted into economic prices.
8.     The institutional strengthening program would generate long-term institutional benefits as
communities and municipalities learn to operate and maintain water and sanitation infrastructure. A large
number of community operators would be trained and certified (annex 18). It is assumed that these
operators will benefit individually from this training program as their position in the rural labor market
would improve. It is assumed that the average income of these certified community operators is 50 percent
higher than that of unskilled rural labor.
9.     The project would also foster a number of non-quantifiable benefits. The unavailability of reliable
data, however, has precluded a quantitative estimation of these benefits. They include improved water
quality, and benefits associated with the institutional strengthening of the capacity of communities and
I This figures is consistenit withl the average incidence of diarriheal diseases in areas with highi piped water supply coverage.
2 Instituto Latinoamneiicano de Investigaciones Sociales y Centro de Estudios para el Desarrollo Laboral y Agrario, Informe
Social Bolivia: Balance de Indicadores Sociales. La Paz, 1994.



-52-
municipalities to plan and manage their water supply and sanitation services. Increased water quality does
not only relate to quality in terms of taste, clarity and odor, but also refers to the increased reliability of
water supply services. Moreover, the institutional strengthening program could also have a positive impact
on the implementation of other rural development projects.
C. Project Cost
10.    The investment costs of water supply and sanitation schemes include domestically and
internationally produced materials and equipment, unskilled and skilled labour, overhead cost and the cost
of pre-investment. The latter includes amongst other the costs of technical designs and community
mobilization. The investment costs of the different technology options have been adjusted in view of the
experiences of NGOs involved in the sector and the Social Investment Fund. The investment costs vary for
each technology option, whereas the population density of the area in which the project will be implemented
is also a major determinant of the operation and maintenance cost (Annex 5). In the investment cost a
service fee for the Social Investment Fund is also included, which will cover the costs for the technical and
financial evaluation of the pre-investments, and the technical supervision of the investments. This fee has
been estimated at 10 percent of construction costs. In addition, the investment cost for the institutional
strengthening program has been included.
11.    Operation and maintenance costs have been based on engineers' estimates. These costs include
operational costs, administration costs and maintenance costs. In gravity systems, operation and
maintenance costs are about 3.3 percent of investment costs, but for standpipes the operation and
maintenance costs are only 2.6 percent of total investment costs. Pumped systems are in general more
expensive due to the high cost of electricity. In concentrated areas, operation and maintenance costs make
up 4.5 percent of total investment costs. In semi-dispersed areas, the lack of economies of scale becomes
obvious and operation and maintenance costs increase to 5.5 percent. Handpumps are a low-cost
technology and operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement of pumps) are less than 1 percent
of total investment costs.
D. Internal Economic Rate of Return
D. I   Individual Projects with Different Technology Options and Service Levels
12.    The evaluation of the economic viability of the project includes benefits from time savings, health
benefits and productivity increases, the total investment costs (including the institutional strengthening
program), and operation and maintenance costs projected for the period under review. A discount rate of 10
percent is used to calculate the net present value resulting from the project. To reflect true costs and
benefits, financial prices have been transformed into economic prices. Investment and operation and
maintenance costs are adjusted for the impact of subsidies and taxes, and shadow prices have been used.
13.    All water supply options, except for pumped systems with house connections in semi-dispersed
areas and spring protection without tap or standpipe, are viable projects at the individual level.3 Hence,
pumped systems with house connections in semi-dispersed areas and spring protection without a tap or
standpipe are not recommended to be used as they are in general not economically viable. In all other
3 It should be noted however, that pumped systems witl house connections under a different set of assumptions, e.g. with
regard to the distance to the original water source, could become a viable optioni, whereas spring protection without a tap
includes some healtlh benefits which could not be estimated due to lack of data.



-53-
cases, the options generate high internal rates of return. The results also indicate that handpumps generate
very high levels of return, especially the locally manufactured handpumps.
Table 1:       Results of Economic Analysis for Water Supply Projects
for Different Technology Options and Service Levels (excluding SIF service fee)
Technology        Population        Service Level        Net Present     Internal      Cost-Benefit
Option             density                               Value (Bs)      Rate of       Ratio
..........................................................................................................................Re tu rn
Gravity Systems    concentrated,    house connections          1,619        10.0%          1.00
with treatment
semi-dispersed    house connections        14,333        13.4%           1.19
semi-dispersed    standpipes               2,228         10.8%           1.04
Pumped Systems     concentrated      house connections       11,352         10.6%          1.03
semi-dispersed    house connections       -22,486         7.5%          0.88
Spring protection  (semi)-dispersed  tap/standpipe           4,913         155.5%          11.07
Handpumps          (semi)-dispersed  YAKU handpump            2,186         29.6%          2.05
(semi)-dispersed  SOGA handpump            2,997         50.2%          3.38
(semi)-dispersed  BALDE handpunip          3,102         53.9%          3.68
(semi)-dispersed  INDIA MARK III           1,920         14.8%           1.29
handpump
Spring protection  (semi)-disprsed  no tap! no standpi2e  --- -261           n.a.          n.a.
D.2     Total PROSABAR Project
14.    The total project consists of a large number of subprojects, both at the community and the
individual household level (i.e., latrines). The total cost of this project amounts to US$48 million
(including the institutional strengthening component). Based on engineer's estimates, a distribution of the
total investment funds over the different technology options has been made. Before project implementation,
it is assumed that 27 percent of total infrastructure investment funds wvill be directed to sanitation. The
remainder will be aimed at improvements in water supply. It is obvious, that the application of investment
funds over the different technology options and service levels could change due to the demand exercised by
the communities. The project investments will be implemented over a period of six years. It is obvious that
a cost-benefit analysis that will include all the costs related to water supply and sanitation investments and
the institutional strengthening program, but only captures part of the benefits will result in relatively low
values of net present value and internal rate of return. Such a calculation can therefore be seen as a
minimum or base case scenario.
15.    The net present value of the water supply component of the project is Bs.77 million, while the
internal rate of return is 23 percent, and the benefit-cost ratio 1.74. The net present value of the overall
project (including sanitation investments and institutional strengthening program) is Bs.3 1 million, the
internal rate of return is 13 percent, and the benefit-cost ratio is 1. 19.



-54-
D.3    Sensitivity analysis
16.    In the sensitivity analysis the impact of a number of variables has been tested. These variables
comprise the impact of cost overruns, project delays, lower time savings, the impact of health benefits, and
the impact of productivity benefits, the impact of the service fee for the Social Investment Fund.
17.    Impact of cost overruns. The project's sensitivity to cost overruns has been tested. The switch
value (i.e., value when the project turns not viable) for cost overruns of total investment is about 19
percent. If investment costs increase by more than 19 percent, the project will turn out to be not
economically viable.
18.    Impact of project delays. When the project is delayed by one year, the net present value will
decrease to Bs.24 million, the internal rate of return will be 13 percent, while the benefit-cost ratio will be
1.16.
19.    Impact of changes in time savings. One of the uncertainties in the calculation of the time savings
is the wage rate of women in rural communities. In the base case scenario, it is assumed that 60 percent of
the time savings could be used productively against the prevailing wage rate. The switch value for daily
rural wages for women is Bs.4.67. Hence, if less than 47 percent of the time savings can be valued against
the rural wage rate, the project loses its viability.
20.    Impact of lower health benefits. Data on the direct relationship between morbidity and mortality
reduction and improved water supply services are rather scattered. For the sensitivity analysis, it has been
assumed that the incidence of diarrheal diseases is not affected by improved water supply and sanitation
and hence no health benefits are generated. Without health benefits, the net present value is Bs. 16 million.
The internal rate of return is 12 percent, and the benefit-cost ratio will be 1.10.
21.    Impact of lower productivity benefits. Data on the productive use of water for horticultural
purposes has been only documented in the evaluation study of the Yacupay pilot project. However,
when none of the households will use the increased water consumption for productive purposes instead
of the 12.7 percent found in the Yacupaj evaluation study, the project still maintains its validity. In the
absence of productivity benefits, the net present value is Bs. 11 million, the internal rate of return is 11
percent and the benefit-cost ratio is 1.07.
22.   Impact of SIF service fee. The service fee for the Social Investment Fund has been estimated at
10 percent of the direct construction cost. However, if the SIF could increase its efficiency in carrying
out its services to a level comparable to that of more efficient social investment funds, the project
feasibility would increase significantly. The most efficient social investment funds charge service fees
of 5 percent of investment cost. In the case of a service fee of 5 percent, the net present value of the
project would increase to Bs.41 million, and the internal rate of return would rise to 14 percent.
23.    Impact of changes in institutional benefits. When the income of trained community operators
increases by 100 percent, the net present value of the project increases to Bs.48 million, and the
internal rate of return will be 15 percent.
24.    Impact of consumer surplus. Little is known about the current water consumption pattern in rural
areas that have already been provided with water supply systems. Data are scattered, and usually more
based on impressions than actual investigations. Because of the problems with data accuracy, results have
been tested in a different way too. A constant price-elasticity demand curve for the different types of



-55-
techr.ologies and service levels was estimated using data from other countries. The price elasticity of
demand for house connections has been estimated at -0.30, for spring protection and/or standpipes at -0.40
and for handpumps at -0.704. Based on this methodology, the net present value of the project is Bs.35
million, the internal rate of return is 14 percent and the benefit-cost ratio is 1.22. Table 7 shows the results
of this methodology. The cash payments of the rural dwellers have been used as a proxy for direct-use
benefits. These cash payments include the operation and maintenance costs. In addition, the consumer
surplus has been calculated. This methodology results in a higher net present value than the base case
scenario. The difference is due to the fact that the base case approach does not cover all benefits of the
project but is limited to time savings, health benefits and productivity increases, while the calculation based
on the demand curve should include all project benefits.
E. Cost Recovery
E. I   Long-Run Average Incremental Costs
25.    Incremental costs in water supply and sewerage systems result from new investment and the
operation and maintenance of this additional capacity. Investment or capacity costs for water supply
consist of investments for institutional development (including community mobilization), and the
construction of piped and non-piped water systems. In some cases, old systems will be rehabilitated.
Rehabilitation investments are considered equivalent to investments in water intake. Systems which require
rehabilitation are characterized by rationing. Rehabilitation will therefore result in increased water supply.
For sanitation, capacity costs include investments for the construction of sewerage systems in concentrated
areas and the construction of latrines in semi-dispersed and dispersed areas. Total capacity costs are equal
to the sum of capacity investment costs and incremental operation and maintenance costs. The net present
value of these costs is calculated using an assumed opportunity cost of 10 percent.
26.    Long-run average incremental costs have been calculated as the ratio of the sum of the present
value of capacity costs, plus incremental operating and maintenance costs to the sum of present values of
the incremental volume of water. The long-run average incremental costs are computed based on
incremental water consumption. For sewerage and latrines, the average incremental costs are calculated at
an annual basis on a household level.
4 In a study in Nepal, the price elasticity for gravity (or spring protection) schemes was estimated at around -0.40; whereas for
handpumps, price elasticity ranged from about -0.60 to -0.72. The price elasticity for house connections is based on earlier
studies for urban water supply in Latin America. However, as this service level shall only be provided in peri-urban areas,
the use of this price elasticity value seems justified.



-56-
Table 2:       Long-Run Marginal Cost of Water
(in Bs per m3 of water consumed)
Technology Option   Population       Service Levcl  LRAIC    Proposed        Percentage of cost
density                                  (O&M)           recovery b/
Tariff at      (including communities'
contribution to
investment.)...............
........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... .................................. 
Gravity Systems     concentrated     house          2.32     0.55           40.9%
connections,
with treatment
semi-dispersed   house           1.96     0.46           40.8%
connections
semi-dispersed   standpipes      2.99     0.62           38.8% c/
Pumped Systems      concentrated     house          2.25     0.68           46.2%
connections
semi-dispersed   house           2.65     0.89           48.7%
connections
Spring protection   (semi)-dispersed  with tap      0.27     0.07           44.4% c/
Handpumps           (semi)-dispersed  YAKU          1.41     0.82           74.5% c/
handpump
(semi)-dispersed  SOGA           0.86     0.37           60.5% c/
handpump
(semi)-dispersed  BALDE          0.79     0.35           62.0% c/
handpump
(semi)-dispersed  INDIA MARK     2.24     1.49           84.4% c/
III handpump
Spring protection   (semi)-dispersed  wvithout tap  ___0.24  0.08           54.2% cf
Note:
a/ Proposed tariff is the tariff that at least covers the operation and maintenance cost of the technology option
selected. It does not include the cash and in-kind contribution to investments.
b/ Cost recovery index includes the operation and maintenance cost plus the communities' contribution to
investment (i.e., 20 percent of investment, of which 5 percent in cash and 15 percent in kind). The better
performance of low-cost technologies in cost recovery is due to the definition of the proposed tariff. For the
pumped systems and handpump options, the proposed tariff does not include only operation and maintenance
costs, but also the replacement of the pump which is a major deterrninant in the total cost.
c/ This figure does not include the cost of hauling for these alternatives.
27.     Table 2 shows that in none of the water supply options is full cost recovery being implemented.
The customary proposed tariffs meet the operation and maintenance cost of the systems. However, the
tariffs do not generate sufficient resources to enable communities and/or municipalities to replace
investments after their useful life. It is evident, that the lack of cost recovery will jeopardize the long-term
sustainability of the water supply systems. Lack of cost recovery has two major drawbacks. First, if only
operation and maintenance costs are charged, communities will choose piped water systems which have in
general low operation and maintenance cost systems. Although table 2 shows, that operation and
maintenance costs for handpumps are lower than that of piped systems, this calculation does not include the
costs associated with hauling water. If these costs are included, the price per cubic meter water could
increase by Bs.2 to 3. In addition, if only operation and maintenance costs are taking into account the
communities with handpumps pay a higher proportion of the total cost of water services than communities
with piped systems as is shown in table 2. Because it is likely that communities that opt for handpumps are



-57-
poorer than those selecting more capital-intensive water supply systems, this approach has some equity
implications. Hence, the importance the project assigns to full cost recovery (Annex 6).
Table 3:      Long-Run Marginal Cost of Sanitation
in Bs per household per year
Technology Option   Population       Service Level LRAIC     O&M        Percentage of cost
density                                  Tariff     recovery
(include, communities'
contribution to
investment)
Conventional        concentrated     house         163.65   21.00       32.9%
sewerage                             connections
Latrines with       semi-dispersed   household     119.61   30.00       36.3%
hydraulic seal                       latrine
VIP-latrines       semi-dispersed    household    173.19    30.00       29.8%
latrine
28.    Table 3 shows that cost recovery in conventional sewerage is a major problem with the proposed
tariffs. The proposed tariff, that comprises the operation and maintenance cost, covers only 13 percent of
the total costs. The performance of latrines in cost recovery is significantly better. If the investment
contribution is included, the difference between low- and high-cost technologies is considerably smaller.
Just as has been previously observed in water supply projects, the communities which opt for low-cost
technologies end up paying a higher proportion of total cost than the communities which select conventional
sewerage.
E. 2   Cost Recovery and Ability to Pay
29.    It is difficult to determine the capacity to pay for water and sanitation services, especially in rural
areas. Income data are only scarcely available. In addition, the seasonality of income and the importance of
subsistence income further complicate the estimation of the ability to pay. The latter will require flexibility
with regard to the payment of tariffs.



-58-
Table 4:       Ability to Pay for Water and Sanitation
( as a percentage of cash household income)
Technology Option        Population     Service Level  Percentage of income  Percentage of income
density                      spent on water, based  spent on water, based
on LRAIC              on O&M tariff
................~~~............................................................................................................................................................................................................
WATER SUPPLY
Gravity Systems          concentrated,  house         11.2% 1/               2.6%
with treatment  connections
semi-dispersed  house         9.4% 2/               2.2%
connections
semi-dispersed  standpipes    6.0%  2/              1.2%
Pumped Systems           concentrated  house          10.8% 1/               3.3%
connections
semi-dispersed  house        12.7% 2/               4.3%
connections
Spring protection        (semi)-       with tap       0.5%                  0. 1 %
dispersed
Handpumps                (semi)-       YAKU           2.3 %                  1.4%
dispersed      handpump
(semi)-        SOGA           1.4%                  0.6%
dispersed      handpump
(semi)-        BALDE          1.3%                  0.6%
dispersed      handpump
(semi)-        INDIA          3.6%                  2.4%
dispersed      MARK III
handpump
Spring protection        (semi)-       without tap    0.3%                  0. 1%
dispersed
SANITATION
Conventional sewerage    concentrated  house           8.7% 1/               0.9%
connections
Latrines with hydraulic  (semi)-        household      2.8%                  1.3%
seal                     dispersed      latrines
VIP- latrines           (semi)-         household      2.6%                  1.3%
dispersed      latrines
Note:
1/ The actual income in these concentrated areas that are likely to be small urban towns, is probably higher than
the assumed monthly household income of US$ 40 per month. In these areas, monthly household cash
income could be closer to US$ 100. In that case, the percentage of income spent on water is far less than the
figure presented in the table.
2/ These options are not recommended for areas where the assumed monthly household income is only US$ 40
per month as they are not sustainable in the long-run.
30.     In table 4, the ability to pay for the different technology options has been determined using an
average cash income of US$ 40 per month per household -- equivalent to an annual per capita cash income
of US$ 96.
31.    With the current proposed tariffs, the operation and maintenance costs customary for the different
options do not differ substantially. Especially not, when for handpumps and standpipes the economic cost



-59-
of hauling water are included. Rural communities have the ability to pay for all technology options and
service levels offered if only the operation and maintenance costs of these services are charged. As ability
to pay is lower than the often used rule of thumb of 5 percent (i.e, households should not spend more than 5
percent of their cash household income on water and sanitation services), possibilities exists to increase the
proposed tariffs accordingly. The table also shows that full cost recovery can be achieved for low-cost
technologies. However, subsidies will be needed to ensure the sustainability of piped water systems.
Policy Implications
32.    Cost recovery in rural water and sanitation projects is a key issue. If users of water and sanitation
investments do not pay the full cost of these services, the long-term sustainability of these services is
jeopardized. Therefore the project will pursue a full cost recovery. The project finances a study that will
develop a cost recovery policy for the rural water and sanitation sector based on field studies that will be
conducted during the first two years of project implementation. Table 5 shows the policy options for cost
recovery in the rural water and sanitation sector. It suggests that there are two policy options with regard to
cost recovery: full or partial cost recovery. It indicates the implications of each policy option, and assesses
the respective roles of central government, municipalities and user conmuunities.
Table 5:       Policy Matrix for cost recovery for rural water and sanitation projects
Policy Options   Implications                                Strategy
Full cost        *   individual projects are expected to fully  *  municipalities and user communities
recovery            recover investment and operation and         must be informed, and committed to full
maintenance (O&M) costs over the expected   cost recovery at the start of the project
life of the project                      *  municipalities must set tariff rates based
*   investment and O&M cost are met through     on full cost recovery principles
user fees and/or taxes, which are adjusted for  *  municipalities must adjust tariffs
inflation                                   regularly in line with inflation
*   full cost recovery will generate more funds  *  municipalities must set aside the
than is needed for operation and            additionally generated revenues in an
maintenance; therefore an investment fund   investment fund, that has to be separate
has to be set up                            from the general municipal budget
*   full cost recovery may exceed the ability and  *  in case, the central government is
willingness to pay for water and sanitation  setting aside an investment fund, this
services, especially for capital intensive water  fund could become a revolving funrd
supply and sewerage systems                 resulting in increased coverage
O&M cost         *   tariffs will be set at a level that will at least  *  municipal government must decide on
recovery             cover O&M cost                              the tariff, that has at least to cover O&M
*   partial cost recovery will generate insufficient  cost
funds for the replacement or rehabilitation of  *  tariffs have to be regularly adjusted in
the investment when its useful life has been  line with inflation
exceeded, thus jeopardizing the long-term  *  municipal, regional or central
sustainability of the project               governments have to take responsibility
*   recovery of only O&M cost will result in    for the replacement of investment
distortions as it disfavors technology options  through subsidies/grants
with high O&M cost (handpumps)
*   recovery of only O&M cost will have equity
implications as poorer communities opting
for low-cost handpumps will pay a higher
proportion of total cost



Annex 1
BOLMA
RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table 6: Results of the Economic Analysis
Base Case Scenario
in constant prices of April 1995 (in Bs)
Year            Time          Health      Productivity  Institutional  TOTAL   Investment   Institutional  O&M Cost     TOTAL COST    NET BENEFIT.
Savings        Benefits      Benefits     Benefits   BENEFITS      Cost       Investment  ._.
1995              0             0             0           0           0     3,146,370      4,621,500           0       7,767,870    (7,767,870
1996         499,852        67,464        70,387      36,000     673,703   29,103,920     10,522,800       97,596     39,724.316   (39,050,613
1997       5,164,470       696,494       727,236     642,000    7,230,200  41,689,399     10,902,000     1,000,359    53,591,758    (46.361,558
1998       11,935,217     1,609,616     1,680,659   1,476,000  16,701,492  41,689,399      8,200,200     2,293,506    52,183,105   (35,481,613
1999       18,813,964     2,155,531     2,649,291   2,280,000  25,898,786  22,024,588      5,142,900     3,586,653    30,754,141    (4,855,355
2000       22,576,757     2,586,637     3,179,150   2,691,600  31,034,143  11,798,886      3,744,600     4,254,658    19,798,145    11,235,999
2001       24,708,003     2,830,815     3,479,261   2,917,200  33,935,279         0                      4,480,346     4,480,346    29,454,934
2002       24,905,667     2,853,462     3,507,095   2,917,200  34,183,424         0                      4,279,379     4,279,379    29,904,045
2003       25,104,912     2,399,757     3,535,152   2,917,200  33,957,021     45,170                     4,078,413     4,123,583    29,833,439
2004       25,305,752     2,418,955     3,563,433   2,917,200  34,205,340    402,813                     3,958,054     4,360,867    29,844,473
2005       25,508,198     2,438,307     3,591,941   2,917,200  34,455,645    740,336                     3,769,938     4,510,275    29,945,370
2006       25,712,263     2,457,813     3,620,676   2,917,200  34,707,953.  2,180,932                    3,581,949     5,762,881    28,945,072
2007       25,917,961     2,477,476     3,649,642   2,917,200  34,962,279   2,638,319                    3,393,959     6,032,278    28,930,001
2008       26,125,305     2,497,295     3,678,839   2,917,200  35,218,639   2,516,125                    3,294,644     5,810,769    29,407,870
2009       26,334,308     2,517,274     3,708,270   2,917,200  35,477,051   1,222,323                    3,241,439     4,463,762    31,013,288
2010       26,544,982     2,537,412     3,737,936   2,917,200  35,737,530    675,675                     3,241,439     3,917,115    31,820,415
2011       26,757,342     2,557,711     3,767,839   2,917,200  36,000,092    238,120                     3,241,439     3,479,559    32,520,533
2012       26,971,401     2,578,173     3,797,982   2,917,200  36,264,755    679,200                     3,241,439     3,920,639    32,344,116
C)
2013      27,187,172      2,598,798     3,828,366   2,917,200  36,531,536    842,106                     3,241,439     4,083,545    32,447,991
2014       27,404,669     2,619,589     3,858,993   2,917,200  36,800,451  (3,923,771                    3,241,439     (682,331     37,482,782
Net Present Value    143,837,508    15,162,970    20,254,501  16,585,864  195,840,844  109,764,181   31,996,639    22,609,426    164,370,246    31,470,598
Net Present Value  31,470,598
Rate of Return        13.4%
Benefit-Cost Ratio      1.19



BOLIVIA
RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Table 7: Results of the Economic Analysis
Base Case Scenario based on Demand Curve Estimation
In constant prices of April 1995 (in Bs)
Year          Direct-use    Consumer      Institutional  TOTAL      Investment  Institutional  O&M Cost    TOTAL COST    NET BENEFIT
benefits In cash   surplus      benefits     BENEFITS      Cost     Investment __.___________
1995              0             0              0           0    3,146,370    4,621,500            0       7,767,870     (7,767,870)
1996         152,329       484,107        36,000      672,436  29,103,920   10,522,800        97,596     39,724,316    (39,051,880)
1997        1,573,862     5,133,989      642,000    7,349,851  41,689,399   10,902,000      1,000,359    53,591,758    (46,241,907)
1998        3,637,234    12,170,285     1,476,000  17,283,519  41,689,399    8,200,200      2,293,506    52,183,105    (34,899,586)
1999       4,911,447     19,467,248     2,280,000  26,658,695  22,024,588    5,142,900      3,586,653    30,754,141     (4,095,447)
2000        5,893,737    23,360,697     2,691,600  31,946,034   11,798,886   3,744,600      4,254,658    19,798,145    12,147,889
2001        6,450,105    25,565,947     2,917,200  34,933,252          0           0        4,480,346     4,480,346    30,452,907
2002        6,501,706    25,770,474     2,917,200  35,189,381          0           0        4,279,379     4,279,379    30,910,002
2003        5,527,601    25,976,638     2,917,200  34,421,439      45,170          0        4,078,413     4,123,583    30,297,856
2004        5,571,821    26,184,451     2,917,200  34,673,473     402,813          0        3,958,054     4,360,867    30,312,606
2005        5,616,396    26,393,927     2,917,200  34,927,523     740,336          0        3,769,938     4,510,275    30,417,248
2006        5,661,327    26,605,078     2,917,200  35,183,605   2,180,932          0        3,581,949     5,762,881    29,420,725
2007        5,706,618    26,817,919     2,917,200  35,441,737   2,638,319          0        3,393,959     6,032,278    29,409,459
2008        5,752,271    27,032,462     2,917,200  35,701,933   2,516,125          0        3,294,644     5,810,769    29,891,164
2009        5,798,289    27,248,722     2,917,200  35,964,211    1,222,323         0        3,241,439     4,463,762    31,500,448
2010        5,844,675    27,466,712     2,917,200  36,228,587     675,675          0        3,241,439     3,917,115    32,311,472
2011        5,891,433    27,686,446     2,917,200  36,495,078     238,120          0        3,241,439     3,479,559    33,015,519
2012        5,938,564    27,907,937     2,917,200  36,763,701     679,200          0        3,241,439     3,920,639    32,843,062
2013        5,986,072    28,131,201     2,917,200  37,034,473     842,106          0        3,241,439     4,083,545    32,950,928  c
2014        6,033,961    28,356,250     2,917,200  37,307,411   (3,923,771)        0        3,241,439     (682,331)    37,989,743  -
Net Present Value     34,714,109    148,524,528    16,585,864  199,824,501  109,764,181  31,996,639    22,609,426   164,370,246    35,454,255
Net Present Value  35,454,255
Rate of Return        13.9%
Benefit-Cost Ratio      1.22



-62-
Table 8
Regression Analysis between
Diarrheic Episodes of Children Under Five Years Old and
Water Supply Coverage
Departnent - Population  Population   Episodes Episodes
n_:_-._._.         c       5 years     (in'000 per child
lieni             1      4,1/    Y            -7:      2
Chuquisaca        499,297     76,392      250        3.27
Cochabamba      1,221,630    186,909       157       0.84
E I AItD          446,189     68,267       121       1.77
La Paz          1,645,368    251,741       114       0.45
Oruro             374,249     57,260       170       2.97
Pando              41,893      6,410       136      21.22
Potsi             577,861     88,413      345        3.90
Santa Cruz      1,501,325    229,703       196       0.85
Ta rija           320,654     49,060       185       3.77
TOTAL           6,823,283   1,043,962    1,901         47
Note:
The departments of Riberalta and Tupiza with a total population of 240,000 are not included in this calculation.
Regression Output
Constant                        21.29316
Sid ErrofY Est                  4.237516
R Squared                        0.58262
No.ofObservations                     10
Degrees of Freedom                     8
XCoeflicient(s)       -31.8545
SFi Err of Coef.      9.532332
-3.34174



-63-
Annex 11
Revenue Projection
Fiscal Transfers to Municipalities
Actual and Projected (USS '000)
Departmen of La Paz                        ____________
PFovince               Municipality           Population              Actual                         Pro .cted   ____
_____________  ______________________  __________ 1991  1992   1993    1994    1995    1996 11997 11998
MURILLO           La Paz                             723,750   14,566  21,802  25,113  18,092  16,428  19,559  23,057   26,935
Paica                                4,808                              53     109     130     153      179
Mecapaca                             7,605                              83     173     206     242      283
Achocalla                           15,447                             170     335     417     492      575
____________  El Alto                            40,9         59     47      54    4.3     9.0    10,98   1291     15,00
INGAVI            Viacha                              54,761               51      5     602   1,243   1,365   1,545     1,733
Guaqul                               5,810                              64     132     145     164      184
Tiahuanawu                          13,151                             144     299     328     371      416
______________Desaquademo                          4       _315        7       8      48      99     1081    122      137
CARANAVI          Camanavi                                    ___           2      3     473     978  1,074    1216   1J364
AROMA             Sica-Sica(V.Aroma)                  19,582                    -        214     444     469     534      603
Umala                                6,605                              72     150     167     190      214
Ayo-Ayo                              6,407                              70     145     162     184      208
Calamarca                            9,716                             107     220     245     279      315
Patacamaya                          15,546              1 1     13     171     353     392     447      505
Colquencha                           5,850                              64     133     148     168      190
Collana                              2-2423                                     46      77,     88       99
INQUISIVI         Inqtisivi                           15,195                             167     345     370     414      459i
Quime                                7,395                              81     188     180     202      224
Cajuata                              9,228                             101     197     225     252      279
Colquin                             17,052                             1871    387     415     465      516
lcJhoca                              6,685                              73     152     163     182      202
Licoma                               1 790 ____20                               53      44      491      54
OMASLIYOS         Achacachi                           44,866                4       4    4931 1,018     1,116   1,262    1,415
______________Ancoraimes                          23      __837                      317     654     717     811      909
LARECAJA          Sorata                              16,073                             175     328     451     527       611
Guanay                              27,319                             300     620     726     84       982
Tacacoma                             6,881                              75     156     183     214      247
Tipuani                             13,708                             150     311     364     426      493
Quiabaya                             2,212                              24      50      59      69       80
______________Combaya                              2       _569 _                     27      951     441     51       6
MANCO KAPAC       Copacabena                          13,573                1       1    149     308     337     381      426
San PedroTriquina                    5,490                              60     125     136     154      172
___________   Tito Yupanki                         1       _491                       16      34      37      42       47
MUNECAS           Chuma                                8,605                              94     195     212     239      266
Ayata                                5,140                              56     117     127     143      159
______________ Aucapata                            4,075     _                        45      93     100     113      126
PACAJES           Coro Coro                           11,915                             132     209     308     344      3.81
Caquiaviri                           5,978                              71     248     245     274      303
Calacoto                             7,144                              78     162     173     194      214
Comanche                             5,008                              55      95     121     136      150
Charana                              2,473     106      83      96      51      56      60      67       74
Waldo Ballivian                      1,336                              15      30      32      36       40
Nazacara de Pacajes                  4,258                              41       3       3       4        4
Santiaa ode Calla a                  5,239  _   _                       57     1801    108     1211     133
CAMACHO           Puerto Acosta                       33,560                             369     624     818     915     1,015
Macamoco                            18,844                             207     428     460     514      571
______________Pto.M.C.-Challapata                  1,8              -                 2      163      26      3        33.
FRANZ TAMAYO      Apolo                               12,520                             137     284     319     365       4151
Pelechuco                                                               53     116     124     142      161
LOAYZA            Lunbay                                8,591                             94     195     212     239       266
Sapahaqui                            5,865                              97     201     219     246      275
Yaro                                 6,756                              74     146     167     188      209
Maias                                1,938                              21      51      48      54       60
Cairoma                              9.5                               10_29_3_28_9
SUR -YUNGAS       Chulumani                           11,101                2       2    122     252     285     328       373
Irupana                             11,929                             136     271     406     466      531
Yanacachi                            4,059                              45      92     104     120      137
Palos Blancos                       12,643                             134     287     226     260      296
La Asunta                                                              13__-   j 4  27  313.   360      4101
LOS ANDES         Puicarani                            23,608                            259     447     596     680       768
Laja                                15,391                             169     349     389     443      500
Batallas                            19,983                             220     443     505     576      650
Plo. Perez                           3        __19-                     35     1721     81      921     104
NOR YUNGAS        Coroico                               9,478               2       2     104    231     248     287       330
Coripata                            1        ___27-6                   113     233     268     311      357
ITURRALDE         Ixiamas                              3,366                              37      82      90     106       124
______________San Buenaventura                     5       _095                       56,    105     137.    161      187
B.SAAVEDRA        Gral.Perez (Charazani)                8,406                             92     191     212     242       273
Curva                                                                   17__  - -6      40      46       52
G.VILLARROEL      S. Pedro de Curahuara                 3.659                             40     124      89~     99       110
Pape[ Pampa                          6,827                              75     114     166     185      205
Chwacalla                                   ____      -       -         13      27      29      33       36
G.J.M.PANDO       Santiago de Machaca                  3,735                              41      85      91     101       112
1Catarora                               842 1   __9                              19      20      23       25
ITOTAL            I______________                   1,892,760 1 4,3     22.396, 25,7971 31A322  4~3,13 491,9311 680671   66940



-64-
Department of Cochabamba
Province              Municipality          Populatton              Actual                        Projected
1994      1991    1992 r 1993     1994   1995    1996    1997    1998
CERCADO          Cochabamba                         412917   3768     5,392   6        551      4   11,207  13,299  15,639
QUILLACOLLO      Quillacollo                         69,027     322    408     524     759   1,567   1,871  2,219    2,608
Sips Sipe                           30,007                            220    454     814     965    1,134
Tiquipaya                           13,371              6       8     147    303     362     430     505
Vinto                               20,573              2       3     226    467     558     661     777
Colcapirtua                         22,219      98    218     280     262    504     602     714     840
CAMPERO          Aiquile                             20,795              2       2     228    472     517     588     662
Pasorapa                             4,612                             51    105     115     130     147
Omereque                             4,951                             54    112     123     140     158
AYOPAYA          Independencia                       28,548                            314    648     712     810     913
Morochata                           26,049                           286     591     650     739     833
CHAPARE          Sacaba                              69,517      26     50      64     764   1,546   1,908  2,276    2,691
Colomi                              13,425                            147    305     368     440     520
Villa Tunan                         50-175                            551   1,139  1,377   1,643 
PUNATA           Punata                              23,134              2       3     254    698     601     698     803
Villa Rrvero                         5,718                             63    135     149     172     198
Villa J.Q.Mendoza                   16,176                            178    194     420     488     561
Tacachi                                422                              5     10      11      13      15
Villa G. Villarroel                  1,952                             21     39      51      59      68
ESTEBAN ARCE     Tarata                               8,406              4       5      92    191     211     241     272
Anzaldo                             10,088                            111    223     253     289     327
Arbieto                              7,816                             86    177     196     224     253
Sacambe                              3       -407                      37     84      86      98     110
GERMAN JORDAN Cliza                                  15,838                            174    360     400     458     520
Toco                                 6,380                             70    145     161     185     210
Tolata                               5,287                             80    120     134     153     174
CAPINOTA         Capinota                            15,721      30    105     136     173    357     396     452     512
Santivanez                           6,332                             70    144     159     182     206
Sicava                               2391                             26      54      60      69      78
TAPACARI         Tapacari                            19,202                            211    436     471     531     594
CARRASCO         Totora                              14,087                            155    320     376     443     516
Pojo                                 5,612                             62    403     150     176     206
Poroma                              12,799                            141    290     342     402     469
Chimore                              6,519                             72    194     174     205     239
Pto. Villarroel                     38,797            _    _          426    559   1,03       9 1    ,42
ARANI            Arani                               13,159                            145    299     345     402     464
Vacas                               10,172   -                        112    231     266     310     359
ARQUE            Arque                                6,820                             75     155    168     189     212
Tacopaya                            11,429           -                125    259     281     317     355
BOLIVAR          Bolivar                              7,081                             78    161     174     197     220
TIRAQUE          Tiraque                             31,315                            344    711     820     956
MIZOUE           Mlzque                              20,176                            222    458     517     603     696
Vila Vila                            4,170                             46     95     107     125     144
Alalay (Ayopampa)                    3,613                             40     82      93     108     125
TOTAL                                              1,120,206  4,243   6,90    7,968  16,260  26,199 SS              40,802
Department of Tarija
Province              Municipality          Population              Actual            |           Projected           |
19911   1992   1993    1994    1995 1 1996    1997     1998
CERCADO          Tanja                              106,241     438    584     609   1,896   2,457   2,971           4160
ARCE             Padcaya                              13,616                           150    309     359     418      483
Bermedo                             31,097     155    286     299     348    706     820     955    1,103
GRAN CHACO       Yacuiba                              45,892    104     142    149     519   1,072   1,245   1,472   1,724
Carapan                              7,816                             86    177     212     251     294
Villa Montes                        20,904       4      9       9     230    444     567     670     785
AVILEZ           Urnondo                               9,596                           105     244    249     288      329
Yunchara                             6,614              _              73     124    172     198     227
MENDEZ           San Lorenzo                         18,568                            204    421     482     557      638
Tomavapo (El Puente)                11,300                            124    256     293     339      388
O'CONNOR         La Moreta (Entre Rios)               17,763                           195     403    460     531      608
TOTAL            I         __                        289,407    701   1022     ,06   3,930   6,614   7              10,739



-65-
Departrent of Oruro
Province              Municipality          Population              Actual                        Pro *cted
1991    1992   1993    1994    1995   1996 1 1997      1998
CERCADO          Onuro                         197,672          831   1,218   1,278  3,184   4,487   5,234  6,090    7,023
Caracollo                     10,175                                  112    231     269     313     361
El Choro                                     -       -                 65    134     156     182     210
ABAROA           Challapata                    20882                                   229    526     526     597     671
P.DALENCE        Villa Huanuni                 19,674                                  216    447     482     539     598
Machacamarca                 5.218                                     57    119     128     143     159
POOPO            Villa POOOO                   5,856                                    65     134    148     167      187
Pazna                        8,088                                     88    183     202     229     257
Antequera Boliver             1,483          _                         38     79      87      99     111
TOMAS BARRON     Eucali,otus                   5,045                      3 1    3      55     114    134     155      179
SEBASTIAN PAGA Santiago de Huar                9,977            138    213     224     109     175    251     285     321
S.PEDRO TOTORA DTotora                         4,040                       157                  92    100     113      126
CARANGAS         Corque                        6,184                                    67     140    143     159      175
Choquecoca                    1 746                                    19     40      42      47      52
SAJAMA           Curahuara de Carangas         4,092             11      18     19      52      93    102     115      128
Turco                         3,799                                    42      86     94     106     119
LITORAL          Huachacalla                   983                                      11      22     24      27       30
Escara                        446                                       5     10      11      12      13
Cruz de Machacamarca          190                                       2      4       5       5        6
Macays                       92                                         1      2      11      13      14
Esmeralda                     376                                       4 4    9       9      10      11
SAUCARI          Toledo                        5,569                                    61     126    137     153      170
SUR CARANGAS     Andamarca                     3,003                                    33     68      24      27       30
Belen de Andamarca            1,021                                    12     23      32      35       39
LADISLAO CABRE Salinas de G.Mendoza            5,761                                    63    131     139     155      171
PamDa Aullagas                1.602                                    17     36      39      43       48
MEJILLONES       La Riera                      751                                       8      17     19      21       24
ATAHUALLPA       Sabays                        2,074             64     101    106      95      47     52      58       65
Coipaza                       406                                      16     34      28      31      35
NOR CARANGAS     Stago. de Huayila             4,900                                    54     ill    118     13       145
TOTAL            I    _   _    _33_,9931 1,0441 1,564                         1,631  4,836   7,719   8,746  10,062  11,477
De partrent of Pando
Province              Municipality          Population              Actual                        Projected           |
1991     1992    1993    1994    1995   1996 1 1997     1998
NICOLAS SUAREZ Cobija                          10,001            59    453      26     120     227    266     312      361
Porvenir                      4,645                                    50    105     124     145     168
Bolpedra                      1,129                                    12     26      30      35      41
Bells Flor                    2,67                                     29     61      71      83      97
MANURIPI         Puerto Rico                   3,679                                    40      83     92     104      117
San Pedro (Conquista)         1,347                                    15     31      34      38      43
Filadelfia                    2-334                                    25     53      58      66      74
MADRE DE DIOS    Pto.G.Moreno                  3,659                                    40      83     91     104      116
San Lorenzo                   2,421                                    47     55      60      69      77
Sena                          2017                                     22     46      50      57      64
ABUNA            Buena Vista                   1,245                                    24      28     31      35       39
Humaita                       1 407                                    15     32      35      40       44
GRAL. P. ROMAN   Nueva Esperanza               555                                       6      13      14     15       17
Lom AAta                      961                                      10     22      23      26      29
rOTAL            __38,072                                        69    453      26     465    864     980   1,128    1,287



-66-
_______________Departmenof Santa Cruz                                 ____________
Province               Municipality            Population  ____         Actual                         Projected
_________ ________ ______  _ ________ 1991  1992   1993    1994    1995    1996  1 1997     1998
A.IBANEZ          Santa Cruz de la Sierra              711,205   5,750   7,798  12,030   15,489  16-,143  20,100  24,233  28,953
Cotoca                                19,631               1       2     216     446     555      669      799
Porongo (Ayacucho)                     8,272                              91     188     234     282      337
La Guardia                            21,988      27      52      80     259     499    1,005   1,211    1,447
El Tomo                               23A52 ____        -       -        242     535     283      342     408
WARNES            Wamer.                                38,285              29      45     421     869     993    Q~? 14    .1
VELASCO           San Ignacio                           28,292               1       2     311     717     766      905    1,058
San Miguel                             8,423                              93     191     228      270     315
San Rafael                          6~          -       -1-               68f     66     1681     199     232
ICH-ILO           Buena Vista                           10,784                             118     245     282     327      375
San Carlos                             6,594                              72     416     172     200      229
Yapacani                              32,-06                             353     462     839     973     117
CHIQUITOS         San .Jose                             14,372               1       1     158     326     396     472      556
Pailon                                12,901                             142     293     356     423      499
Robore                                152461                             16_ -   7  346  420     500      590
SARA              Portachuelo                           20,359               3       4     224     462     517     59U      668
Santa Rosa                                   ___             ____        102f    210     235     268      303
CORDILLERA        Lagunillas                             2,230                              24      96      60       70       82
Charagua                              13,495                             148     421     362     426      496
Cabezas                               22,168                             243     389     596     701      816
Cuevo                                  3,210                              35      73      86     101      118
Gutierrez                              4,966                              55     230     133     157      183
Camin                                 39,128      58      79     122     430     725    1,051   1,235    1,439
______________Bovuibe                                3      _431         3       5      38      78      92i    108      1261
VALLEGRANDE       Vallegrande                           15,573               2 -     3     171     353     387     438      490
Trigal                                 2,891                              32      66       72      81       91
Moromoro                               3,863                              42      88      96     109      122
Postrer VaIle                          4,846                              20      42      46       52       58
Pucara                                          -       -7-               28      58      64       72       81
FLORIDA           Samaipata                              9,142                             100     207     233     266      302
Pampa Grande                           6,389                              70     145     163     186      211
Mairana                                5,712                              63     130     145     166      189
______________Ouirusillas                            1__507                             17      34      38      44       50
OBISPO SANTIST    Montero                               58,569      52      67     103     644    1,329   1,534   1,780    2.047
GralISaavedra                         11,639                             128     264     305     354      407
______________Mineros                               34,42  _   __        5       8     378     782     902    2~07     1,20
NUFLO CHAVEZ      Concepcion                            15,006            -       -        165     341     424     511      610
San Javier                             8,039                              88     183     227     274       327
_______ _______ San JulIian                         37.963  __ _     _ _ _417                  862    1,7     119       .4
ANGEL SANDOVA San Matias                                -0 95117                                   243     280      325      374
MANUEL CABALL     Comarapa                              11,846                    -        1301    269     307     354       406
Saipina                                4_22___                            46      96     110      127      145
GERMAN BUSCH      Puerto Suarez                         17,494     407     555     856     2121    397      482     574      677
______________Puerto Qujiarro                        7      ___32       41      63      91     180     219     260      307
GUARAYOS          Ascencion de Guaray                   11,137                             122     253      315     379      453
Urubichi                               4,738                              52     107      134     161      192
_____________IEI Puente                              5__603                             55     114     142      171     205
ITOTAL             _______________                    1.367,961   j,24    8,3    13 325  2267     098     762 
Deprtnent of Beni          _____        _______
Province               Municipality            Population     -         Actual                         Prolpcted
_____________  _____________________   No. Habit.   1991    1992     1993    1994    1995    1996    1997     1998
CERCADO           Trinidad                              57,328     245     355     121     769    1,301   1,799   1,830    2,141
_____________San Javier                              5      ___00             -67              132     156     185      217
YACUMA            Santa Ana                             2506         4      1 2       4    275     569      644     800      936
VACA DIEZ         Riberalta                             52,774      53      75      26     560    1,198   1,357   1,685    1,971
Villa Bella                           31,877      44      77      26      46      94      107     133      155
G3uayaramenn                   I______             1       8       3     3051    629     715      8851   1,3
ITENEZ            Magdalena                             1630   ____                        179     3701     419     5201     609
GRAL. JOSE BALL Reyes                                    6,153               1               76     156     177     220      257
Rurrenabaque                                                              99     206      233     289      338
San BoRja                             24,251               5       2     266     550     623      774      906
Santa Rosa                                              -       -1282            164      191     230      269
MARBAN            Loreto                                 3,679                              40      83       94     117      137
____________  San Andres                             8      __271                       91     188     212     264      309I
MAMORE            San Joaquin                            42547                                      97      110     137      160
San Ramon                              4,713                              52     107      121     151      176
________      ~~PuertoSiles                          1       __0-7-                     1 2     24      27      34       40
MOXOS             Son Ignacio                           17        __60-2-                  207 i   400      485     562      657
TOTAL              __________                 _        2-6-6,3-70-  3571   6341    181    3,1911 6,6      7,470   8,816   10,313



-67-
Annex 12
Eligibility Criteria
1.    Investment for the first year of project implementation, 1995, was selected during project
preparation in specific municipalities of the departments of Potosi, Chuquisaca, La Paz, and Cochabamba.
These departments and municipalities were chosen based on poverty indicators, including a five-year infant
mortality rate above 80 per 1,000 live births and an illiteracy rate above 50 percent. Focusing the first year
of project implementation on departments located in the Altiplano was critical for efficient use of human
and financial resources, and for applying the lessons learned from the Potosi pilot project.
2.     For the subsequent years of the project, 1996-2000, all departments and municipalities could be
eligible for financing if they meet the following criteria. These criteria will be revised annually during
project review by DINASBA/PROSABAR, the project committee, and IDA, to incorporate adjustments if
they are required following the flexible approach to project design outlined in paragraph 20 of the Staff
Appraisal Report.
Departments
3.     Entry criteria. Eligibility of new departments will be decided during the annual project review.
From the second year of project implementation any department is eligible for financing if the
corresponding departmental government complies with the following criteria:
*  The organization of the UNASBA and the appointment of the minimum staff required to manage the
PROSABAR under stable labor conditions, and with qualifications satisfactory to
DINASBA/PROSABAR. Staff includes a manager, one engineer, one social worker, and support staff.
*  The signing of an agreement with the Sub-Secretariat of Urban Affairs, the Sub-Secretariat of Public
Investment and Extemal Financing, and the Social Investment Fund for project implementation.
*  For 1995, the commitment of at least US$ 100,000 in the approved budget from the previous year to
finance pre-investments, normally scheduled for September of each year. These funds should be
deposited in a separate bank account managed by UNASBA, and are subject to project auditing
procedures.
*  Starting in 1996, pre-investment activities will be financed by Regional and Municipal Governments
and external resources (NGOs and others). These funds should ideally be deposited into the UNASBA
account in order to ensure standardized project preparation procedures and quality control.
4.     Exit criteria. During project review compliance with these criteria will be revised as follows:
*  A minimum staff, equivalent to at least fifty staff-months a year, has been allocated to PROSABAR
subprojects.
*  A satisfactory amount has been contracted out to prepare subprojects.
*  A satisfactory statement on the use of the project account has been prepared.
5.     If performance at the department level is not considered satisfactory by DINASBA/PROSABAR
and IDA, the financing of additional subprojects in the department and the provision of technical assistance
to UNASBA could be stopped, after consultation with the project committee. In such an event
PROSABAR would withdraw from the department after concluding projects whose implementation already
had started. PROSABAR would withdraw with the staff it had assigned and the equipment it had allocated
to the UNASBA.



-68-
Municipalities
6.     After the first year of investment, all municipalities will be eligible for financing under the
following criteria:
* Presentation to UNASBA of a batch of subprojects for at least 10 communities.
* Subprojects have been included in the municipal operating plan for the year.
* The plan has been cleared by the department and the central government.
* Pre-investment funds are available.
* The municipality agrees to a cash contribution of at least 20 percent of project cost, according to the
financial policy for the sector.
* There are assurances that cash contributions from the community will be obtained on time.
7.    If performance at the municipal level is not considered satisfactory by DINASBA/PROSABAR
and IDA, the financing of additional subprojects and the provision of technical assistance to the
municipality could be stopped, after consultation with the project committee. In such an event PROSABAR
would withdraw from the municipality after concluding projects whose implementation already had started.
Communities
7.     Communities would be eligible according to the following criteria:
* The total population of the community is below 5,000.
* Priority has been assigned to a specific community by its corresponding municipality, and it has been
included in the municipal operating plan.
* A subproject has been prepared or funds to finance pre-investment have been identified.
* The community has selected the technology and service level, and is fully aware of cost implications
and financial contributions.
* The community is willing to contribute in cash with at least 5 percent of the project cost and 15 percent
in unskilled labor and local materials to the municipality.
* An agreement has been reached between community leaders and municipal authorities regarding project
implementation and financial contributions.
* The community knows the government policy for rural water and sanitation.
Subprojects
8.     A project is eligible if it:
* Meets all previous criteria.
* Follows the participatory process established by the Popular Participation Law.
* Is demand oriented, that is, reflects the desires and willingness to pay of the community.
* Is accompanied by a community training and education process, developed by UNASBA and funded by
the technical assistance program.
* Has been prepared based on the design manual of DINASBA for rural water and sanitation projects.
*  Has been satisfactorily evaluated by the Social Investment Fund.
* Has been approved by the Board of the Social Investment Fund.



-69-
Annex 13
Project Flows
Implementation
&                                                                   LEVEL
Community                         Municipality                                       Department
'o c
S0    1. Dissemination of PROSABAR       2. Municipality receives request3.Pirzelstsceadan
E                  r throughout rural Bolivia.  from Its communities to be                    departments/municipalities are
EJ @                                      included in PROSABAR.                               added to annual program.
0
4. NGO/Consuitant is contracted
for design of project package.
g      C6. Projects prepared, community _                                                     5. Workshop for NGO/
e      decides on service level.                                                             Consultant.
|12. &17. Implementaon.                                                                         Com    onent   
_                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~     ~~nfrasteucture   Instit4tional
18. Preparetechnical&financial |   14. Prepare social. financial
s t                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~evaluation of package and  evaluation of pDackage and
13. &18. Comm issioningl Post                                        bidding documonts.                 bidding documents.
9. Satisfactory projects
approved by SIF.
5                                                                           I ~10 Award package contract to    1  Award package contract to
NGOlConsultant. Bank gives no     NGO/Consuttant. Bank gives no
\  objection.                      | objection.
\II 11. NGOlConsultant contrat    |16. NGO/Consultantcontract
11.       o         csigning,                        contract
|20. Sign over of works to         19. Sign over of works to
=     I community.                 r      municipality. 
11 2.Semesterly flow-up report      22. Follow-up and T.A.                              23. Systematic post construction
;      [21                                                               I rfollow-up and T.A.
I  I | L                      I l                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_



-70-
Annex 13
Project' Flows
Disbursement
|Wyorld Bank|
.'~   ~      c
Accounta y aP e eCentral Bans
F   .lows of.fun
-Consultants ;POAA 
-Recurrent costs         PA                   PAMncplte
UNASB               Contractor|
Departmental            PA
Govemments        
0Consultants I
|-GOOdS      I
. .... ..Accountability and expenses
Flows of funds



-71:
Implementation
Detailed Procedures
Community selection stage
Box 1. PROSABAR, UNASBAs, and NGOs disseminate PROSABAR project concepts and policies
throughout the Bolivian rural communities (Annex 9) triggering a communal demand.
Box 2. Interested communities which agree to follow the guidelines established under PROSABAR can
request at the Municipality level, through their OTBs, that they be included in PROSABAR. Incoming
requests are consolidated and prioritized under the guidelines of the Ley Popular de Participacion.
Municipal governments must then include PROSABAR projects in the Annual Operational Plan (AOP).
Box 3. The municipalities submit to their respective UNASBAs, the prioritized list of communities
requesting to participate in PROSABAR and which have been included in their AOPs and approved by the
Subsecretary of Public Investment. PROSABAR, the SIF and the UNASBAs add the departments and their
municipalities into the annual project program at the departmental level.'
Pre-investment stage
Box 4. UNASBA/PROSABAR bids, evaluates, and contracts NGO/consultant services for the design of
the package of projects for both the investment and Community Development components. IDA provides
no-objection.
Box 5. NGO/Consultant, prior to implementation, participates in a three day workshop sponsored by
PROSABAR to fully understand project implementation methodology.
Box 6. Implementation. The consultant presents feasible technical options to the communities and
explains the associated financial responsibilities and procedures for O&M, based on the concepts of
community management. The communities decide on the technical option and service level. A package of
communal projects is assembled.
Box 7. The package, proposing the detailed engineering work for the investment and the social content for
the Community Development components for the communities involved, is submitted to UNASBA-
PROSABAR for each selected department.
Investment component
Box 8. The preinvestment packages are submitted to the SIF for a technical and financial evaluation. If
the evaluation is unsatisfactory, the NGO/Consultant is responsible for reformulating a satisfactory plan
for re-evaluation. Preparation of bidding documents begins.



-72-
Box 9. The Board of Directors of the SIF approves the satisfactory packages. SIF verifies that the
counterpart funds from the municipality and the community, 25% and 5% respectively have been placed in
its account.2
Box 10. A bidding committee represented by the Municipality, Departmental Governments (as of January
1996), UNASBA-PROSABAR, SIF (as a proctor), bids, evaluates, and awards the contract3. IDA gives
no-objection to contracting, if above ceiling.
Box 11. SIF signs contract with contractor verifying guarantees and other formalities and disburses an
initial 20% of the contract value upon signature. Disbursements are made based on the NGO/Consultant's
proposed disbursement schedule.
Box 12. Investment implementation begins by establishing a coordinating mechanism with the Community
Development NGO/consultant.4 Throughout the implementation stage, the community is actively involved.
The NGO/Consultant reports both to SIF5 and UNASBA-PROSABAR. SIF is responsible for investment
supervision and follow-up Timing: 2 months after the Community Development NGO/consultant begins.
Box 13. Commissioning. Provisional reception of the works by UNASBA-PROSABAR/SIF/Municipality
begins after the physical works have been completed by the NGO/Consultant. During this post-construction
period, the system is fully tested. The Community Development NGO/Consultant, is responsible for the
final transfer of the works to UNASBA-PROSABAR, SIF and the Municipality. At that point, the
NGO/Consultant is fully paid. Duration for the commissioning period is anticipated at 3 months.
Community Development component
Box 14. UNASBA-PROSABAR receives NGO/Consultant's proposal (standard format), evaluates the
package. If the evaluation is unsatisfactory, the NGO/Consultant is responsible for reformulating a
satisfactory plan for re-evaluation. Preparation of bidding documents begins. Timing: 2 months before
evaluation of the investment proposals are evaluated
Box 15. UNASBA-PROSABAR6 bid, evaluate, and contract the NGO/Consultant. IDA gives no-
objection.
Box 16. DINASBA-PROSABAR7 signs contract with NGO/Consultant verifying guarantees and other
formalities and disburses an initial amount of 20% of contract value upon signature. Disbursements are
made based on the NGO/Consultant's proposed disbursement schedule.
Box 17. NGO/consultant implements the social works with the community by establishing a tie with the
community and setting up the ground work for the construction of the system. Timing: 2 months before the
investment NGO/Consultant begins implementation. The NGO/Consultant reports to UNASBA and SIF
periodically.
Box 18. Post construction. NGO/Consultant is responsible for: assisting the community and municipality in
verifying the quality of the works during the guarantee period and makes sure that they are registered in
the municipal cadaster. Capacity of operators, and sanitary education are strengthened to promote
sustainability. Timing: It is expected that the consultant will remain on the site for 2-3 months after works
are completed



-73-
Transfer of title
Box 19. SIF/UNASBA-PROSABAR sign over the works to the municipality.8
Box 20. The municipality delegates its obligation to administer, operate and maintain basic sanitation
infrastructure to the community, thereby making the community responsible for the works.
Box 21. The community's Admninistration/O&M              committee submits to the municipality a semesterly
follow-up and system monitoring report.
Box 22. The municipality conducts follow-up and provides technical assistance to the community.
Box 23. UNASBA-PROSABAR conducts long-term systematic post-construction follow-up and provides
technical assistance to the municipalities.
1.       Following the first year of project implementation.
2.       Total counterpart funding is 30% deposited into a central SIF account.
3.       When the amount of the package is above US$250,000, the bidding will be conducted through a separately contracted procurement
agency.
4.       The Community Development NGO/Consultant is responsible for the technical supervision for the Investment NGO/Consultant and
reports directly to UNASBA-PROSABAR.
5.       SIF is responsible for follow-up and financing for investment component.
6.       UNASBA-PROSABAR is responsible for supervision of the Community Development NGO/Consultant.
7.       DINASBA-PROSABAR is responsible for follow-up of the Community Development NGO/Consultant.
8.       As per the PPL, municipal governments have the obligation to administer, operate and maintain, and renew basic sanitation infrastructure.



-74-
Annex 14
Implementation Manual Outline
Legal Framework
A.     Institutions
Describe participation in project implementation of each agency according to the Staff Appraisal
Report and credit agreement. Include organizational charts and institutional responsibilities.
I.A. I  DINASBA
I.A.2  PROSABAR
I.A.3  SIF
I.A.4  Departmental government (each department)
I.A.5  UNASBA (each department)
I.A.6  Municipalities and communities (list of commnunities and key officials)
I.A.7  Entities participating in Project Committee: NSUA, NSSI, SNRD, SIF, Departmental
Governments
I.A.8  UNDP
I.A.9  IDA
B.     Regulations
Include all relevant regulations and agreements for project implementation.
I.B. 1  List of regulations applicable to rural water and sanitation in Bolivia (copies should be
kept in separate binder)
I.B.2  Staff Appraisal Report
I.B.3  Credit agreement
I.B.4  Institutional agreement: NSUA, SIF, each Departmental Govemments
I.B.5  Agreement between the Government of Bolivia and UNDP
I.B.6  Sample model agreements: municipality-community, municipality-Departmental
Governments, municipality-SIF
I.B.7  Aide-Memoire from supervision missions
I.B.8  Minutes from project review
II.    Project Rules
A summary of project rules as established in the Staff Appraisal Report, Aide-Memoires from
supervision missions, and minutes from project review. It also refers to specific arrangements with
SIF and UNDP. Identify and clarify specific responsibilities of each project entity.
A.     Eligibility criteria
II.A. I Departments
II.A.2 Municipalities
II.A.3 Communities
II.A.4 Subprojects
B.     Procurement



-75-
1I.B. 1 Pre-investment
II.B.2 Investment component
II.B.3 Institutional component
C.     Pre-investment
II.C. 1 Termns of reference
HI.C.2 Qualification criteria
IH.C.3 List of consultants and subprojects
D.     Evaluation
E.     Approval
F.     Bidding
G.     Supervision
H      Follow-up
I.     Commissioning
J.     Operations and maintenance
K.     Ownership
III.   Implementation Procedures
Include a detailed description of all project implementation arrangements outlined in the Staff
Appraisal Report.
A.     Procurement
III.A. 1 Investment component
ICB
NCB
Shopping
III.A.2 Institutional component
Selection of firms
Individual consultants
Equipment
B.     Disbursement
III.B. I Special account
IlI.B.2 Statement of expenditures
C.     Auditing
D.     Reporting
III.D. 1 Content
III.D.2 Frequency and distribution
E.     Monitoring and evaluation
III.E. 1 Indicators
III.E.2 Evaluation
F.     Environmental evaluation



-76-
G.     Project review
III.G. 1 Terms of reference
H.     Implementation manual
III.H. 1 Content
III.H.2 Update
IV.    General Management
A.     Correspondence
B.     Filing
C.     Project documents
D.     Distribution lists
E.     Accounting of expenses
F.     Work programming
G.     Administrative functions
H.     Assets management
V.     Personnel
A.     Key officials
B.     Consultants
C.     Terms of reference
D.     Contracts
E.     Reports
F.     Policies
G.     Training
VI.    References
A.     List of references
B.     DINASBA manual
C.     SIF manual
VII.   Formats



-77-
Annex 15
Reporting
1.     Reporting is a key feature for any project to formalize communications to interested parties and
stakeholders. It should include, as a minimum: (i) the progress of the project measured by pre-established
indicators; (ii) explanations regarding deviations from original project conception; and, (iii) alternative
courses of actions and decisions to adjust project implementation when required and justified. Reporting
will be responsibility of PROSABAR, that will collect the necessary information from all of the
participating institutions (UNASBAs and SIF).
2.     This project has been designed to be responsive to community demands for different technology
options and service levels. There are therefore no blue-prints for detailed project execution-except for the
first year--but project implementation procedures and policies that should be followed and principles for
selecting sub-projects, which in turn might be reviewed periodically. Project design relies on the lessons
learned in the earlier phases of project execution to guide the planning and implementation of subsequent
activities (annex 6). In such a project, reporting becomes an essential feature for project design and
decision making.
3.     The guidelines for report preparation are the following:
* Frequency and timing: annual reports to be presented by November 30 of each year, starting in 1995.
* Preparation: stand-alone reports based on the quarterly evaluations prepared by February 28, May
31, and August 31. Quarterly evaluations should be made available to IDA upon request.
*  Review and approval: reports should be reviewed by the Project Committee and approved by the
Head of the PROSABAR.
4.     Content of the annual report:
I. Project description. Summary of the project in 2 pages.
II. Monitoring indicators. Quarterly comparison of indicators--proposed vs. actual--discussion and
proposed adjustments. Tables and accumulated graphs should be developed, comparing actual and
planned performance.
III. Institutional component. Progress of each component indicating funds committed, disbursed, and
results to date.
IV. Next year planning. Based on actual commitments from municipalities and communities, and the
inventory of pre-investment, a forecast for the following year activities should be presented, including
detailed budgets for institutional support to PROSABAR and UNASBAs.
V. Critical activities. All critical activities, events or decisions should be highlighted.
VI. Recommendations. A summary of main recommendations should be included, including actions
required, and key decisions to be made.
VII. Annexes.
a) Communities. A list of communities included in the project, classified according to implementation
cycle: community request, project approved, contract signed for construction, contract signed for
software, construction underway, provisional transfer, final transfer, software completed.



-78-
b) Training. A list of persons trained at community, municipal, regional, and central level. Training for
operators/administrators should be particularly highlighted. Information should be presented indicating
training description, timing, and duration.
c) Financial information. Should include--at least--an update of financial information provided in the
SAR. It should also data on the structure and amount of SIF's administrative costs and the fee charged
by SIF for the provision of its services..
d) Contracts. Should include a list of contracts awarded indicating the name of contractor/consultants,
the value in bolivianos and dollars, the date of signature, and the status of implementation.
e) Project accounts. Should include summary reconciled-statements of all project accounts.
f) Credit covenants. Should include an updated evaluation of compliance with legal covenants.
g) Institutional Agreements. Should include an evaluation of usefulness and enforceability of key
institutional agreements, and requirements for further adjustments.
h) Workshops. A summary of main conclusions for each workshop, including main recommendations
and actions that have been agreed.
i) Monitoring indicators. Should include a summary evaluation of expanded monitoring indicators and
independent audits performed under M&E component financed by the UNDP.
j) Project Review. Should include a tentative agenda and planning for the project review to be held
before year-end between government officials and IDA according to paragraph of the SAR.



-79-
Annex 16
Supervision
Project Review
Objective          To discuss modifications of the project design if necessary, based on the
performance on project implementation.
Tinmng             After presentation of project annual report (Noyemnber 30 of each year) but
.______._____ .before the end of the vear.
Duration           One week
Location          Bolivia
Participants       AJI members of Project Committee. the bead of UNASBAs and advisers,
representatives from selected municipalities and communities, selected
representatives from NGOs and consultants. IDA, and possibly otherdonors.
Content            *  Review of Project Annual Report
* Investment plan for the following )ear
* Changes ir project design criteria
*  Main issues affecting effective implenientation of the project
* Plan fbr instituLional strengthening of project entities and stakeholders
* Monitoring indicators
* Detailed anal-sis of project costs
* Progress in sector strengthening
* Reconunendations to the Govern.nent and to IDA



-80-
Annex 16
Supervision Plan
Missions                        Activity                   Expected Skill Requirements  Staff Input
approximate dates                                                                        (staff-weeks)
(month/year)
3/96       Supervision Mission                           Procurement                     2
Engineering
7/96       Supervision Mission:                          Procurement                     8
Project Launch Workshop                      Disbursement
Engineering
Social Scientist
12/96       Supervision Mission:                         Procurement                     4
Engineering
7/97       Supervision Mission                          Engineering/Procurement         8
Social Scientist
Economist
12/97       Second Workshop on project                   Social Scientist                4
_implementation                              Engineering
1998        Two Supervision Missions:                    Social Scientist                8
Review overall progress                      Engineer/Procurement
1999        Three Supervision Missions:                  Social Scientist                6
_Review overall progress                      Engineer/Procurement
2000        Two Supervision Missions:                    Social Scientist               10
Including one to prepare ICR (Implementation  Engineering/Procurement
Completion Report)



-81-
Annex 17
Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year    Quarterly   Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending Disbursements
US$ million   US$ million  % of Total
FY 1996*
March 31,1996                2.00         2.00        10%
June 30,1996                 1.00         3.00        15%
FY 1997
September 30, 1996           1.40        4.40         22%
December31, 1996             1.50         5.90        30%
March 31, 1997               1.50        7.40         37%
June 30, 1997                1.60         9.00        45%
FY 1998
September 30, 1997           1.75        10.75        54%
December 31, 1997            2.00        12.75        64%
March 31, 1998               1.75        14.50        73%
June 30, 1998                1.50        16.00        80%
FY 1999
September 30, 1998           0.75        16.75        84%
December 31, 1998            0.75        17.50        88%
March 31, 1999               0.50        18.00        90%
June 30, 1999                0.40        18.40        92%
FY 2000
September 30, 1999           0.40        18.80        94%
December 31, 1999            0.40        19.20        96%
March 31, 2000               0.45        19.65        98%
June 30, 2000                0.35        20.00       100%



Annex 18
Description of Monitoring Indicators
No.                          Indicators                                                 YEAR                             Total
1995     1996      1997      1998     1999     2000
Physical
I Number of beneficiaries from water projects                   5,256    88,442   121,667   117,321  60,036   32,850  425,573
2 Number of beneficiaries from sanitation projects              3,901    68,162    97,246    97,127  51,419   29,074  346,929
3 Number of water projects transferred to municipalities           15       253      348       335      172       94    1,216
4 Number of latrines constructed                                  751    13,148    18,783    18,783   9,955    5,635   67,054
Institutional
5 Number of contracts signed for communiy training (UNASBAIPROSABAR)  8      21       27        27       18       18      119
6 Number of communities benefiting from training and hygiene education  15  253       348      335      172       94    1,216
7 Number of strengthened municipal governments                     10        30       30        30      -        -        100
8 Number of community operators certified                          30       505      695       670      343      188    2,432
9 Number of water projects submitted to SIF for appraisal          16       265       365      352      180       99    1,277  o
10 Number of water projects approved by SIF                         15       253      348       335      172       94    1,216  s
11 Number of monitoring and impact studies and reports prepared                3        5         5        2        1       16
12 Number of workshops held to review project strategy and policies  1         1         1        1        1        1       6
Financial
13 Total infrastructure investment (US$ '000)                      400     7,000    10,000    10,000   5,300    3,000   35,700
14 IDA Credit excluding PPF (USS '000)                             200     2,200     2,300     1,700    1,100     800    8,300
15 SIF costs as percentage of investment                            14        12        10        8        8        7
16 Average per capita cost of water project                        50.0      52.0      54.0     56.0     58.0     60.0
17 Average cost of latrine                                        115.0     115.0     115.0    115.0    115.0    115.0
18 Average per capita cost of sewage facility                      75.0      78.0      81.0     84.0     87.0     90.0
19 Per capita cost of community development                          16       10         7         5        5        7



-83-
Annex 18
Description of Monitoring Indicators
Physical
I Number of beneficiaries from water systems is equal, in year t, to the number of beneficiaries from water systems built
in year t.
2 Number of beneficiaries from sanitation facilities is equal, in year t, to the number of beneficiaries from the sanitation
systerns built in year t.
3 Number of water projects transferred to municipalities is equal, in year t, to the number of water projects constructed
and registered in the municipalities' cadaster in year t.
4 Number of latrines constructed is equal, in year t, to the iiumber of latrines constructed in year t.
Institutional
S Number of contracts signed for community training (UNASBAIPROSABAR) is equal, in year t, to the number of
training contracts signed in year t.
6 Number of communities benefiting from training and hygiene education is equal, in year t, to the number of
_ comnmunities that have signed contracts for community training and hygienie education in year t.
7 Number of strengthened municipal governments is equal, in year t, to the sum of water cormmittees formed within each
_ municipal government in year t.
8 Number of community operators certified ) is equal, in year t, to the total number of operators certified (passed exam
_ and received certificate) in year t
9 Number of water projects submitted to SIF for appraisal is equal, in year t, to the number of water projects to be
appraised by SIF in year t.
10 Number of water projects approved by SIF is equal, in year t, to the number of water projects approved by SIF in year t.
11 Number of monitoring and impact studies and reports prepared is equal, in year t, to the number of impact studies
undertaken in year t.
12 Number of workshops held to review project strategy and policies is equal, in year t, to the number of project
workshops to be held in year t.
Financial
13 Total infrastructure investment is equal, in year t, to the total contribution to water and sanitation iinvestments in USS by
the IDA, OPEC Fund, and SIF/IDB, municipalities and communities in year t.
14 IDA investment (USS '000), is equal, in year t, to the total amount actually disbursed from IDA within year t.
15 SIF costs as percentage of investment is equal, in year t, to the percentage of operational cost of SIF to direct investment
in year t.
16 Average per capita cost of water project ( Average US$ per capita), in year t, is equal to the total infrastructure costs
(total funds) of water projects in year t divided by total number of beneficiaries from water systems (1) in year t.
17 Average cost of latrine (Average USS per capita), in year t, is equal to total infrastructure costs (total funds) of on-site
sanitation projects in year t divided by total number of beneficiaries from sanitation systems (2) in year t.
18 Average per capita cost of sewage facility ( Average US$ per capita), in year t, is equal to the total infrastructure costs
(total funds) of sewerage projects in year t divided by total number of beneficiaries from sewerage systems (1) in year t.
19 Per capita cost of community development in year t, is equal to investments for community development and municipal
strengthening in year t divided by total number of beneficiaries (l) + (2) in year t.
Note: Unless otherwise indicated, all calculations are made by December 31 of the corresponding year.



Annex 18
PROSABAR: Expanded Monitoring Indicators
Evaluation Component       Indicators                                                               Source of Inforination
PROSABAR      UNASBAs      SIF    In-depth
MIS            MIS       MIS     Studies
__ Physical Results        Water projects constructed per technology option                                     X       X     (service choice)
SanitatiOn projects constructed per technology option                                X      X (service choice)
Water project beneficiaries (communities and individuals)                            x
Sanitation project beneficiaries (communities and individuals)                       X X
Beneficiaries of community development and hygiene education  X         x
Trained community operators                               X             x
Certified conmnunity operators                            X             x                   X (capacity)
Strengthened municipal governments                        X             x                   X (capacity)
B. Financial Results       Investment subprojects, per type of project                                          X       X (unit costs)
Community development, per community and beneficiary      X             x                    X (unit costs)
Training and workshops, per event                         X             x
Consultancies and studies, per contract                   X             x
Total IDA expenditures, per category                      X                          X
Total Deptal govt/UNASBA contribution                     X             X
Total municipal (and community) contribution                                         X       X (fin. policy)
Total municipal contribution above grant cap                                         X       X (fin. policy)
C. Institutional efficiency  Subprojects prepared (preinvestment)                                   X
Subproject submitted to SIP for appraisal (% accepted)                               X          ime lag)
Subproject approved and bid by SIF (% approval)                                      X       X (time lag)
Subprojects with provisional transfer to municipality                                X        .-
Subprojects with final transfer to municipality                                      X       X (time lag)
Community development contracts bid                       X             x
Community development contracts completed                 X             x_
Costs                      PROSABAR management and operating costs                   X              x                   X
_UNASBA TA and management costs                           x             X
SIF administrative costs                                                             X       X (unit costs)
SIF fee charged on investment subprojects                              .             X       X (unit costs)
Note: aU of the above indicators will be included in the regular projec reports (quarterly and annual progress reports)



Annex 18
PROSABAR: Expanded Monitoring Indicators
Indicators/information required                                   Baseline  Process  Impact
study     study    study
D. Project policies and      Eligibilty and prioritization criteria:
strategies                   * are communities with the highest demand being served?                     X
* arc criteria applied uniformly and equitably?                             X
* is demand-responsive approach leading to greater sustainability?                    X
Financial policy:
* are community and municipal willingness to pay being captured fully?      X
* are some communities not able to participate because of affordability?    X
* what specific contributions are communities making to the project?        X
* is cost recovery policy for system replacement known to all?              X
Technical options and service levels:
* are these appropriate to respond to demand and management capacity?        X        X
* which service level is most selected and why?                             X
* what are the most efficient techniques for negotiating with communities?  X         X
Mfanagement at the lotoest appropriate leteL
* is community participating in all steps of the project?                    X        X
* are beneficiaries aware of their long term responsibility for sustainability?       X
* are institutional backstopping mechanisms being put in place to support             X
community and municipal management?
* is intermediation and community development process cost-effective?        X        X
E. Project impacts and       Investment sustainabiNty: ad'ministration, operation and maintenance
benefits                     * percentage of tariff collected and/or WTP for repairs                               X
* financial solvency of water committee                                               X
* availability and access to tools and spare parts                                    X
* condition of infrastructure, frequency of preventive maintenance, repairs...        X
* availability of trained personnel in community and local private sector             X
* municipal follow-up and support to communities                                      X
*cost recovery for facility replacement                                               X
* environmental impacts                                                               X
Changes in hygiene practices, time savings and health benefits:
* sources and uses of water: amount consumed, time spent carrying  X                  X
* water quality before and after project                          X                   X
* excreta disposal practices before and after project             X                   X
* personal, household and community hygiene                       X                   X
* cases of diarrhea before and after project                      X                   X
* cases of parasitosis before and after project                   X                   X
* skin problems (scabies) before and after project                X                   X



-86-
Annex 19
Documents in Project Files
1.     PNUD/Banco Mundial
Proyecto de Saneamiento Basico "PROSABAR"
Resumen Ejecutivo, Documento del Proyecto y 10 anexos
La Paz, November 1994
2.     PNUD/Banco Mundial, Proyecto de Saneamiento Basico "PROSABAR"
Seminario Taller, Taller de Arranque Preinversion PROSABAR 19-21 Septiembre/94
La Paz, Noviembre de 1994
3.     Programa PNUD/Banco Mundial de Agua y Saneamiento
Informe del Taller, "Metodologias Participativas de Capacitacion en Proyectos de Agua y
Saneamiento"
Sucre 7-10 February, 1994
4.     PNUD/Banco Mundial, Programa de Agua y Saneamiento
Proyecto de Saneamiento Basico Rural en Comunidades Dispersas de Potosi "Yacupaj"
Informe de Evaluacion Final
Noviembre 1994
5.     Cuadernillos Municipales No. 0, Republica de Bolivia
Division Politico-Administrativa y Poblacion Municipal de Boliviaa
Ministerio de Desarrollo Sostenible y Medio Ambiente Secretaria Nacional de Participacion
Popular
6.     Prgrama PNUD/Banco Mundial de Agua y Saneamiento
Estudio de las Politicas y del Marco Institucional del Subsector Saneamiento Basico Rural en
Bolivia.
Tomo I - Informe, Richard Noth
Documento 2, Septiembre 1991, La Paz, Bolivia
7.     Republica de Bolivia, Ministerio de Asuntos Urbanos
Programa Agua Para Todos
Plan Nacional de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
Febrero 1992
8.     Poverty Alleviation and Social Investment Funds, The Latin American Experience
World Bank Discussion Papers No. 261
Philip J. Glaessner, Kye Woo Lee, Anna Maria Sant' Anna, Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine
9.     Willingness to Pay for Water in Rural Punjab, Pakistan
Water and Sanitation Report 4, UNDP - World Bank Water and Sanitation Program
Mir Anjum Altaf, Haroon Jamal, Dale Whittington
10.    Effective Implementation: Key to Development Impact
Portfolio Management Task Force, September 22, 1992



IBRD 27093
680                  66'                  64'                  62                  60'                       1 o0
-10:~                                                                             B O      L I V   I A
-     B R A Z I L                                                                  RURAL WATER AND
SANITATION PROJECT
,_l_v. ,+/ 52 Sp POPULATION BY DEPARTMENT:
\  ~>Cobtio  PANDO ~  f     it?                                      _       1,500,001 to 2,000,000
".-   )o' -'             ?                                      _        1,000,001 to 1,500,000         12'
12'                 "- -ZIZhi                                                                   500,001 to 1,000,000
W         ,,_ 100,001 to 500,000
D                                                                                            0 , -  =   r  1  o to 1 00,000
0   50  1 00 1 50 200 250
Li                           L. Rogoguado                                                            KILOMETERS
0.             S             I. BogagDc                                                                       = The boundaries. colors
Cl-                    L. Rogaguo~~4                                                           de-nna,aion andany   1 4"
other nformation shown
14'                           C                                                                          o  this atp d0 not
imply on the prf of
The World Bask Gro-p
nay judgment on the legal
stto's al any territory,
or ay endorsemet
-   ~ or acceptance of such
a- *  diboundar-es
-;iskos                *                          ,L                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~B  R A   Z  I L  1e
16'
fl-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
1  6"
..                   r  oc/. -9; ~~~~u re - --
e-"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-20,~~~~~~~
18)    '-''. <G, Q_RURQ
>,  p ,a) T  o S  -      t                   .............................P A   R A  G   U  A  Y \
%   ff                 | ~~~~~~~~~Ta0,l<i)                               60, 
20'
C   H ~ ~ I L E                                                                 PELm      \               B R A Z I L
6282    Iw,_ 66A                                            /                      60'
DEPARTMENT    POPULATION    |                      A  R G   E N   T I N   A                      ;    L. P  c         BRAZL
TOTAL    RURAL WATER SANITATION                                                                    S-1. .-
Chuquisaca  453,756   147,401  18.15    7.47                                                      Al   >     *Sic
La Paz     1,900,786 1,193,821  23.69  15.09                                                PoC lil  I                 i
Cochabamba  1,110,205  580,188  26.08  21.81        *      NATIONAL CAPITAL                           t >               . 
Potasi      645,889  216,835  21 67      7.2        A DEPARTMENT CAPITALS            34-   Ocoan     ,            PARAGUAY
Ororo        340,114  222,018  23.35    616                                                                      \PRGA
Tarija       291,407  159,438  2594     19.16              DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                        r (
Beni         276,1 74  182,748  3 98   41 25                                                            ' .t T--n          hP
Santa Cruz  1,364,389  982,396  33.65  37 25               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                          *   siisi ,.
_oad38 07f2         10..iiQ01  5 92 ___33.27
TOTAL:     6,420,792 3,694,846  23.82   17 48                64-                 62'              ,i       ARENtNo AI.g*
JUNE 1995









T H` Ai; T .j
T ype,  S 1 -
T y  e :  -7.A 



