Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23133
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(PPFI-P82 10; PPFI-P821 1; PPFI-P8212; IDA-28Q60; COFN-03770)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.4 MILLION (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR THE
RURAL WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
03/06/2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 6
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Boliviano
1 Boliviano = US$ 0.15
US$ 1 = 6.78 Bolivianos (as of November 2001)
1 Boliviano = US$ 0.21 Boliviano
US$ 1 = 4.74 Bolivianos (as of March, 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPYS            Water Management Entities (Comit6 de Agua Potable y Saneamiento)
CCM              Menonita Central Committee (Comite Central de Menonita)
DINASBA          National Directorate for Water and Sanitation
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
JICA             Japan lnternational Cooperation Agency (Agencia de Cooperaci6n Intemational
Japones)
NGO              Non-Governamental Organization
PSR              Project Status Report
PRAGUAS          Rural and Small Towns Water Supply and Sanitation Project
PROAGUAS         Water and Sanitation Programme
PROSABAR         Rural Water and Sanitaiton Project (Proyecto de Saneamiento Basico Rural de Agua)
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SIF               Social Investment Fund
UNASBA           Departmental Water and Sanitation Unit (Unidad de Agua y Saneamiento Bisico)
UNASBVI          Departmental Water and Sanitation and Housing Unit (Unidad de Agua y Saneamiento
Basico y de Vivienda)
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
UTIM             Municipalities Technical Units (Unidades Tecnicas Municipales)
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alexander Bakalian



FOR OFFICIAL USE: ONLY
BOLIVIA
RURAL WATER AND SANITATION
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                           4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                               18
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8 List of Documents Produced by PROSABAR                                   34
Annex 9 Beneficiary Assessment - Evaluation Workshop with Four Focal Groups      36
Annex 10 Cornments from Borrower                                                 42
Annex 11 Cormments from Co-financier (OPEC Fund)                                 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006206                                      Project Name: RURAL WATER AND
SANITATION
Team Leader: Alexander E. Bakalian                       TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 6, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: RURAL WATER AND SANITATION                    L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P8210;
PPFI-P821 1;
PPFI-P8212;
IDA-28060;
COFN-03770
Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   04/05/93                               Effective: 06/26/96          10/21/96
Appraisal:  04/07/95                                 MTR:                      12/07/98
Approval:  01/16/96                               Closing: 12/31/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Government of Bolivia/Ministry of Housing and Basic Services
Other Partners:  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB)
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel M. Guerrero                        Paul Isenman
Sector Manager:      Abel Mejia                                Eugene D. McCarthy
Team Leader at ICR:  Alexander E. Bakalian                    Abel Mejia
ICR Primary Author:  Tova M. Solo; Alexander E.
Bakalian
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project's goal is to alleviate rural poverty by enhancing productivity through improved health
conditions and a more efficient use of time saved collecting water. More specific objectives are to: (a)
increase the coverage and sustainable use of water and sanitation services in rural communities; (b) assist
local water & sanitation units in developing capacity to provide technical assistance to municipal
governments and local communities; (c) support the sustainability of water & sanitation services through
training of community-level operators and administrators; and (d) strengthen the capacity of the National
Directorate for Water and Sanitation (DINASBA) to formulate policies, prepare technical standards and
mobilize financial resources.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not changed in the course of project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The Infrastructure Component (LJS$35.7 million, about 74% of total project costs), to be implemented by
the Social Investment Fund (SIF), consisted of two sub-components:
Water supply (54.4% of total project costs) to provide facilities - both gravity-fed and pumped - as well as
shallow wells with hand pumps and rainwater catchments to communities of under 5000 population in
selected departrnents;
Sanitation (20%) to provide small-scale wastewater collection facilities, treatment and disposal systems,
and latrines;
The Institutional Component (US$8.3 million, about 17% of total project costs), to be implemented by the
project implementation unit (PROSABAR team) in the Vice Ministry of Basic Services (Ministry of
Housing and Basic Services) consisted of three sub-components:
Project Management (2.9% of total project costs) to support costs of staffing, consultant services, and
logistical expenses for the National Directorate (Direccion Nacional de Saneamiento Basico, DINASBA)
and for water and sanitation units at the Department level (Unidad de Agua y Saneamiento Basico,
UNASBA);
Sector Strengthening (12%) to finance capacity building activities for sector institutions and communities
including technical advice, project dissemination, community development, promotion of behavioral
changes through education in hygiene, key studies, a management information system, and specific pilot
projects to develop low-cost technologies and approaches for community mobilization;
Training (2.2%) to fund stakeholders and institutions which provide training to municipalities and
communities in administration, operations and maintenance (of water and sanitation systems) and operators
and administrators of those systems in beneficiary communities.
The remainder of the project costs (about 8%) covered the repayment of the project preparation facility
(PPF) advance (US$1.7 million) and of pre-investment studies (US$2.3 million).
The US$20 million IDA credit was supplemented by: a) US$10 million parallel financing (for the
infrastructure component) from a specific allocation set for rural water and sanitation improvements within
a US$60 million InterAmerican Development Bank (IDB) credit to SIF and b) US$5 million from the Fund
of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), also to co-finance the investment
component of the project.
-2 -



As per project objectives, the infrastructure component targeted the rural poor through provision of water
and sanitation projects, favoring:
*   Small Commnunities The project cost structure, as shown in annex 5 of the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), assumes that 76% of beneficiaries would come from "semi-dispersed" communities of less than
500 persons.
* Low-Cost Technologies The SAR specified an upper limit for sub-project costs of US$100/capita and
set "grant caps", of US$70/capita on the amount which could be financed by the Credit. The project
thus financed either the full grant cap or 70% of project costs - including SIF administrative costs -
whichever was lower.
*   Demand Driven Investments , During a "pre-investment" phase (e.g. design), managed by the
UNASBAs (later UNASBVIs, Unidad de Agua, Saneamiento Basico y Vivienda) in the departmental
governments (Prefecturas), consultants and NGOs worked directly with communities to present
technological options for water supply and sanitation. The communities were to agree at the outset to
carry the system's operation and maintenance costs and also to make a contribution of 5% in cash and
15% in labor. At 20%, the community contribution was to be complemented by an additional 10%
contribution from the municipal governments. The pre-investment phase was to follow community
participation principles, as stipulated in Annex 6 of the SAR (Project Design): "Participation should go
beyond the traditional community-based participation model, narrowly defined as the mobilization of
local groups to ratify decisions made by outside planners, to include ownership of, responsibility for,
and decision making about water supply and sanitation services. The proposed project will make full
use of the participatory planning process devised in the Popular Participation Law, through which
communities - organized through the Organizaciones Territoriales de Base - express their demand for
water and sanitation services, take responsibility for the management of such services, and are willing
to invest in capital and recurrent costs."
3.4 Revised Components:
The overall components were not changed during implementation, although the initial physical targets were
modified at mid-term. Final project investment distribution was similar to the original plan, but the latrine
program originally conceived as part of the infrastructure component to be carried out by SIF, became part
of the community development work under PROSABAR management in DIGESBA. This change was
introduced to reflect best practices that have demonstrated that a latrine construction program is most
effectively implemented when accompanied by a community development and hygiene education campaign.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory, considering the rigorous work done in the field and the due analysis
and application of lessons learned from the YACUPAJ pilot project in Potosi (Yacupaj means "for the
water" in the Quechua language). The Rural Water and Sanitation Project (PROSABAR) took full
advantage of the then newly passed Popular Participation Law and the Decentralization Law and
introduced a new approach to delivering basic services to rural areas. The new approach was based on
project design developed closely with users and municipalities, on low-cost technologies and on
4"ownership" secured by cash and in-kind contributions from the users and capacity building in the
community to assume the maintenance costs of the systems. These factors, combined with training in
proper operation of water and sanitation systems resulted in the provision of affordable and sustainable
water and sanitation for the residents of remote rural areas, where poverty ranks highest in Bolivia.
Project design criteria, based on community development and low-cost technical solutions, were drawn
- 3-



from the "YACUPAJ" project developed by the Bank/UNDP Water and Sanitation Program in conjunction
with a US$2 million grant from the Dutch Government. Beginning in 1990, the YACUPAJ tested different
institutional, technical and financial models for delivering rural water and sanitation services in the
province of Potosi. After experimenting with project design and management by the departmental
government extension services, by a national NGO and through NGOs linked to local community based
organizations, YACUPAJ detennined that a model based on design and management through community
organizations worked best both in terms of cost and time.
Following the YACUPAJ pilot, three Project Preparation Facility grants totaling US$1.7 million and
supported by UNDP contributions financed the project preparation activities. A DINASBA team led the
effort, relying on NGOs working in the sector, and targeted initially four provinces (La Paz, Cochabamba,
Potosi and Chuquisaca) chosen for the poor water supply and sanitation coverage. DINASBA was a
directorate under the aegis of the Under-Secretary for Urban Development, within the Secretariat for
Popular Participation within the Ministry of Human Development (Note: DINASBA was changed to
DIGESBA in 1998, under the direct management of the Vice Minister of Basic Services in the newly
reorganized Ministry of Housing and Basic Services). Within DINASBA the project implementation unit
was to manage policy formulation for the Infrastructure Component, implement the Institutional
Component and help prepare projects - together with the UNASBAs and municipalities - and present them
to the SIF for implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
In terms of the overall goal, the project has established a successful model for identifying, designing and
implementing appropriate systems for supplying water and sanitation to rural communities, and it has led to
the construction of 762 water supply systems, 27 sewerage systems and over 12,000 latrines. Child
mortality rate for Bolivia remains high but has dropped from its pre-project level of 92 deaths per 1,000
births (1995) to 83 (1999). The project surely cannot claim credit for this reduction, but the conclusions of
the impact evaluation study of the SIF 2 project indicate clearly the role of water supply and sanitation in
child mortality reduction. In a carefully designed case-control study, it was shown that water investments
have contributed to a 41% reduction in the under five-year child mortality rate (ICR; Report No. 22450,
June 26, 2001). In summary, the project served to institutionalize a set of effective approaches to rural
water and sanitation/hygiene by: (i) financing a large number of successful and sustainable individual
investments using a model developed prior to project start-up; and (ii) establishing and strengthening
policies, procedures and institutions committed and capable in implementing the approach. Specific project
objectives are discussed below:
Specific Objective 1 of "increasing the coverage and sustainable use of water and sanitation services in
rural communities" has been satisfactorily achieved. At the project conclusion water service was provided
to about 330,000 people. At appraisal, it was estimated that some 0.86 million rural dwellers had service to
water, 24% of the total rural population. The project has produced an impressive increase in the percentage
of Bolivia's rural population with access to clean water. Water coverage for the rural population has
jumped by 38% in between 1995 (24%) and 2000 (33%). In Chuquisaca (one of the poorest provinces), for
example, only 18.2% of the rural population had access to clean water at appraisal, compared to 35% -
40% currently reported by sector leaders (based on interviews with DIGESBA, PROSABAR officials and
local Prefectura in Chuquisaca). Sanitation has also improved with a relatively smaller percentage of 15%
in overall increase in coverage.
-4 -



Specific Objective 2 of "assisting the local water and sanitation units (UNASBVIs - Prefecturas level) in
developing the capacity to provide technical assistance to municipal governments and local communities" is
rated as partially satisfactory. Although the UNASBVI were able to generate a large number of sub-project
designs (twice as many the number of sub-project that could be funded under PROSABAR), the
Prefecturas did not provide the necessary support to the teams. Although PROSABAR funded two
technical experts in each Department throughout the project life, the counterparts were often replaced on
political grounds and the office was not fully (financially) supported by the departmental governments.
Specific Objective 3 of "supporting the sustainability of water and sanitation services through extensive
training of community level operators and administrators (local level) is rated satisfactory. Besides the
physical infrastructure, those water and sanitation projects also include the creation of water management
entities (Comites de Agua Potable y Saneamiento - CAPYS), at the community level, who are responsible
for operation and maintenance. To foster the strengthening of the water and sanitation sector, the project
also sponsored the strengthening of the technical staff (Unidad Tecnica Municipal, UTIMs) at the
municipal level, which provide technical assistance to the CAPYS. Extensive training of community-level
operators and administrators have been carried out through the Community Development sub-component,
as well as through specific training events targeting the CAPYS members.
Specific Objective 4 of strengthening the capacity of DINASBA (now DIGESBA) to formulate policies,
prepare technical standards and mobilize financial resources is rated satisfactory. At the national level, the
water and sanitation sector has been substantially strengthened by the project intervention, mainly through:
(a) validation and consolidation of a rural water and sanitation sector policy based on the Community
Driven Development approach, which among its principal elements is the community's active participation
throughout the project planning, construction and operation and maintenance phases, (b) based on this
project concept, strategy and lessons learned, a new operation for extending the rural water and sanitation
coverage and sustainability was prepared to be financed by the IDB; (c) financed by the project, several
consultancies consolidating the project practices constitute the state-of-the-art with respect to issues such as
legal, technical, community participation, management models, etc, in rural water and sanitation in Bolivia
(some 30 publications have being produced at the end of the project for dissemination in Bolivia and
abroad) and (d) technical norms and standards for design and construction of sewerage and wastewater
treatment plants were developed and adopted.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The Infrastructure component At the closing of the project, some 330,000 people had received water
service and about 99,500 people had access to sanitary facilities. These numbers represent an achievement
of about 90% and 193% of the targets set at the mid-term review (December 1998). The original goals of
425,000 beneficiaries for water and 347,000 for sanitation were modified downward at the mid term review
as evidence was building to suggest that, as communities became more involved in choosing their systems,
the types of technologies originally foreseen were not being selected in the same proportions and
beneficiaries were opting overwhelmingly for house connections (the higher cost systems assumed in the
SAR). These systems, however, are readily extendible to additional households. Spot visits to communities
and meetings with operators suggest that many systems have increased coverage within the first year of
operation; a significant number of communities claim to have doubled the number of households served
within the first two years. While this trend should be confirmed, it suggests that the number of beneficiaries
will continue to grow and could surpass appraisal estimates within the next few years.
Both the distribution of types of projects elected and their costs differed from those predicted by the SAR.
About 70% of the systems constructed are gravity fed and about 20% are based on electrical or diesel
- 5-



pumps. At appraisal it was projected that about 59% of the systems will be gravity and some 27% will be
using handpumps. The per capita costs for gravity systems which were projected at around US$60 were
found to be around US$90. The per capita cost of sewage collection and treatment was estimated at $90
and the final average cost was US$104. Latrines were estimated to cost US$115 and the final costs were
closer to US$200 (although the project had a financing cap of US$65 per latrine, the rest being covered by
the beneficiaries and the NGOs).
An extensive latrine construction program, reaching some 60,000 beneficiaries (with 12,100 latrines) was
financed under the technical assistance component, after a revision of tasks at the mid-term review. Specific
cost overruns on particular projects were evident during the first years of the project, but were brought into
line, as discussed in Section 5. At the same time, construction time lags, which could also be explained by
the concentration on higher cost and more complex projects, were also dealt with so that overall the
investment component was completed only six months after the date set in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), despite factors beyond government control, as discussed in Section 5. A significant
achievement of the project is the development of a methodology for disseminating the project and fostering
the community demand driven process. The pre-investment projects it developed have led to some 1000
sub-project designs, financed directly by departmental governments, which will allow a speedy start-up for
the follow-up project to be financed by the IDB and other sources (e.g. municipal finds). Thus, the project
has set in motion a sustained system for providing low-cost water connections efficiently and at low-cost to
poor rural households, which appears to be continuing to support the project's objectives of reducing rural
poverty, by increasing water coverage to an even greater number of rural households. Considering its
overall outcome and the future which it has opened, this component is rated satisfactory.
The Institutional or Technical Assistance Component was fully implemented, according to SAR
projections, with satisfactory results:
Project Management. Throughout the project implementation period, and as planned in the SAR, the
PROSABAR team (funded from the credit proceeds) included: a) at the central level, a project coordinator,
a community mobilization specialist, a technical advisor, an administrator and a computer
assistant/monitoring specialist and 3 support staff and b) at the departmental level, an technical advisor and
a social expert. While there was a high turnover of the project coordinator prior to 1999, the project
coordinator was not changed in the last two and half years, contributing significantly to the smooth
completion of the project, with minimal delays. Costs were supported for 420 person-months for the PIU
and some 1100 person-months for departmental advisors.
Sector and Institutional Strengthening. Notwithstanding the "unsatisfactory" ratings given to the
institutional strengthening component in the Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), considering problems at
the national level, overall the component is rated satisfactory for the activities/accomplishments:
*   Strengthening of the UNASBVIs which provided the prefecturas with two qualified experts
(engineering and social advisors) to assist throughout all phases of project implementation. The support
given by the prefecturas to its own UNASBVIs was variable and depended on the priority given by the
Department governor (Prefecto). Nevertheless, the UNASBVIs overall were able to fulfill their role in
providing the oversight and financing the sub-project design (they were able to generate the double of
projects that could be financed by PROSABAR). However, the supervision of the community
development contracts was not always carried out at the intensity level originally intended because
mainly of the limited staffing and logistical support available.
*   Dissemination of PROSABAR can be judged successful given the wide acceptance of the project's
- 6 -



principles and objectives and the generation of more some 1800 sub-project designs of which only
about 800 were implemented. The remainder of the projects will provide ready designs to be
implemented in the follow-up PROAGUAS project (financed by IDB). PROSABAR has clearly
become a national program and has oriented the work of many NGOs in the sector.
* Community Development: Capacity building activities for communities deserve a high rating.
Beginning with the pre-investment phase and continuing throughout the construction and post
construction phases, PROSABAR financed private consulting firms and NGOs to carry out the
Community Development Component, which assisted each community for an average period of 8
months (first contracts provided for assistance during 6 months, which were further extended to 8 and
then 12 months). Through the activities and methodology of this component, communities were
informed with respect to their strategic role and contribution to the project as well as on the project
policies and implementation arrangements. Positive results were achieved with respect to a meaningful
community participatory process throughout the project cycle. The most notable result is the creation
and functioning of a water committee in charge of the management of the infrastructure built by the
project and ensuring water supply and sanitation services. To the Project staff knowledge, all systems
built under the project are currently managed by a community committee and the beneficiaries are
paying tariffs of about 3 to 5 Bolivianos, on average (about 1% of the national minimum monthly wage
of Bs. 400). It is expected that these committees will be further strengthened by the technical support
units of the municipalities. Supported by the community development consultancy, most of these
community committees, in a very participatory manner involving all the community members, have
discussed their bylaws and many of them are legally constituted. The benefit of legalization of their
status is derived from the fact that they are able to perform key activities such as seeking financing for
other community needs and priorities. Some of the larger systems are managed by cooperatives.
Besides building local management capacity, the Community Development Component addressed
issues such as hygiene education, gender aspects related to water use and management, training on
operation and maintenance, support to the municipalities for creating planning and monitoring capacity
at the municipal level with respect to the water and sanitation sector. Another remarkable result of this
component is the knowledge achieved on the cultural traditions related to water of the Quechua and
Aymara groups. This knowledge was summarized in a publication sponsored by the project titled
Ethnographic Study of Water. The methodology, the tools and the lessons leamed from the
implementation of this component are guiding the development of a similar component for a new
Bank-financed rural water supply operation currently under preparation in Peru.
*   Tariffs and Cost recovery. In all the communities where the project built water supply and or sanitation
systems, a community water committee, observing the community traditions and composed by four
community representatives; was formally created and bylaws defining responsibilities and obligations
both for the committee and the users were discussed and approved. One of the main topic of these
bylaws is the obligation of each user paying tariffs, water cut off, and rules for using the water
supplied by the system built by the project. The tariffs levels are extensively discussed by the
Community Development consultant (usually and NGO) that assists each community for an average of
8 months.
* Development of a database and information system on rural water and sanitation. The project has built
a unique data base containing relevant information within the area it intervened. This data base was fed
by the information provided by the Community Development Component and updated by the project
field team. This data system has been used as a model in other rural water projects in the Region.
*   Research and Development: studies of, inter alia willingness to pay, water quality, sanitation,
- 7 -



development of a ten year sector development plan (Plan Decenal) and curriculum for training of
operators. See Annex 8
*   A pilot program to help municipalities to develop technical units (UTIMs) to oversee and support
community water and sanitation systems has been implemented in only twenty four local governments
but has been rated highly by participants. The project financed for one year the salary of one technical
person and the cost of a motorcycle to be included in the UTIM and provide support to the
communities. A majority of the municipalities have elected to maintain on the technical staff at their
own expense following the close of the pilot program. In addition, a program of workshops for
municipalities and UJNASBVIs has reinforced local government knowledge of the sector and capacity
to participate in the project.
*   Hygiene education (promotion of behavioral changes) and training in sanitation have been found to be
widespread and successfully absorbed by beneficiaries, most probably contributing to improved health
indicators. The studies and pilot projects financed under this component were key in helping to win
support for low-cost technologies and for sanitation, thus bringing the project through its difficult first
years.
*   Gender. PROSABAR, in its design principles, has emphasized the gender variable in the various
aspects of project implementation. In the community development activities, much emphasis was put on
ensuring gender representation in the water committees. In the institutional evaluation of the project
(carried out in November 2000), in a sample of 46 communities visited, 30 water committees (CAPYS)
had incorporated a female member (represented in all functions of the committee). However, only 2 of
the 46 CAPYS had a woman president.
*   Sector policies. The project was able to introduce sector policies which have consolidated the rural
model and is being applied across the country. Key among these policies is the financial arrangement,
which was introduced to create incentives for the efficient provision of water and sanitation services in
the rural areas by prioritizing investments with the lowest unit costs and to induce the development of
low-cost technologies by implementing a demand based approach in which the beneficiaries have the
choice of technologies and costs. In July 1997 SIF tried to change this policy but the Government (i.e
the project steering committee which included the Minister of Housing and Basic Services, the Ministry
of Finance, and the Ministry of the Presidency) reversed the SIF decision and agreed to continue with
the original financial policy. (Note: There is emerging evidence that the per capita cost of systems
under the IDB-financed portion (without using the per capita ceiling) are about 40% higher than the per
capita costs financed using the project's financial policy.
*   Water Quality. A study commissioned at the end of the project to measure the quality of water in the
newly constructed systems has found that there is practically no contamination in the water delivered to
the houses, but about 37.4% of the samples showed more than 5 fecal coliforms per 100 ml (FC)
suggesting that contamination is still happening at one third of the houses. This indicates more
follow-up work in the families to reinforce the need to use hygienic habits. This study was conducted in
35 communities in La Paz, Oruro, Santa Cruz and Potosi. There was significant variation between
departments for the contamination frequency: In Oruro about 15.7% of the house samples were found
with more than 5 FC while the worst case was in Santa Cruz with about 70%. Contamination in the
tanks and distribution network was practically nonexistent (if it is assumed that less than 5 FC/IOOml
would have minimal effect or is due to sample contamination). It is interesting to contrast the results of
this survey to another similar work carried out in Peru in 1999, where a survey of the quality of water
in 80 rural water supply systems has shown that 67% of the samples taken in the houses (storage
-8 -



containers) presented contamination with fecal coliforms, with only 12% of the samples taken at the
yard tap showing contamination (ref Estudio de la Calidad del Agua en Sistemas de Abastecimiento
Rural, 1999, prepared by Programa de Agua y Sanaemiento PNUD/Banco Mundial, COSUDE and
CEPIS/OPS).
Table 1. Bacteriological quality in 35 communities in La Paz, Oruro, Potosi, Santa Cruz.
(fecal coliforms per
1OOml)
0               1 to 5           6 to 50        more than 50
Storage Tank            87.9%             12.1%              0.0               0.0
Pipe system (tap)       84.3%             12.9%             2.9%               0.0
House Storage           43.9%             18.5%             16.0%            21.4%
Training. Training under the project has been quite extensive, reaching the various sector stakeholders.
Beside the training of operators and CAPYS members in administrative questions, the Community
Development component provided extensive training at the household and school levels on hygiene
education. Moreover, the project financed some 80 workshops with the participation of 1200 technical staff
on various technical and social aspects of project implementation, including periodic impact and
performance evaluations. Moreover, the project pioneered - on a pilot basis - the certification of some 150
operators in the operation of water supply systems. These selected operators from all the departments were
given 3-week extensive training covering theoretical and practical materials in vocational schools in Santa
Cruz and Oruro.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the SAR, the economic analysis of the project was based on the benefits it would generate in the form of
time savings, health improvements, productivity increases (such as horticulture) and institutional benefits
(communities organizations and municipalities increasing their skills in operation and maintenance of water
and sanitation infrastructure). Recognizing differences between the benefits generated by different types of
technologies, economic rates of return (ERR) were calculated for 4 different technology options: gravity
systems (ERR: 10% to 13%), pumped systems (ERR: 8%-1 1%); spring protection (ERR: 156%) and
handpumps (ERR: 15%-54%). The ranges are related to the fact that under each technology, different rates
of return were calculated to reflect the level of dispersion of the houses and the service level (house
connections or standpipes). In recalculating the ERR for the two main technology options under the
PROSABAR (gravity systems which accounted for 70% of the systems built and mechanized pumping for
another 20%), the analysis was based solely on the most important contributor to the benefits, i.e. the time
savings generated by the sub-project. The results are summarized in the Table 2.
As for the total Proiect, the economic analysis was carried out for two scenarios: a) for the water
component only with a total cost of about US$31.1 million and b) the entire project with a final cost of
about US$45.5 million (including the sanitation, institutional strengthening and community development
components). Under both cases, the analysis took into account the distribution of the total investment funds
over the different technology options (different from the original assumptions in the SAR - more gravity
systems and more household connections than originally envisaged).The results are shown in Table 2
below. For the water component alone, the rate of return is 13% and the benefitlcost ratio is 1.2. If all the
project costs are included and only the water benefits (reflected in time savings) are estimated, the
recalculated economic rate of return is 8% and the benefit cost ratio is 0.89. It could be concluded that the
B/C for all the scenarios could be expected to be positive (higher than 1) if the other benefits (health,
-9-



productivity and institutional) are also quantified and taken into account. Health benefits which are sizable
in water and sanitation projects (numerous academically oriented studies have demonstrated and quantified
those links) are difficult to measure and require the collection of sizable data and rigorous analysis to
separate the numerous confounding variables.
Table 2. Recalculation of Results of the Economic Analysis
Gravity systems   Pumped systems Total Project         Total Project
(Water Only)
NPV             Bs. 19,069       Bs. (33,335)    Bs. 24,499,961   Bs. (19,168,124)
ERR               12%                8%               13%               8%
B/C ratio            1.1              0.93               1.2              0.89
4.4 Financial rate of return:
In a survey of about 46 communities, it was found that 40 have been applying tariffs to their beneficiaries.
The tariffs varied from Bs. I to Bs. 23. The higher tariffs were found in Santa Cruz and with pumped
systems (typically Bs. 20). In many cases, the tariff represents much less than the customary rule of thumb
of 5% (i.e households should not spend more than 5 percent of their cash household income on water and
sanitation). With a minimum salary in Bolivia of Bs. 400, the majority of the beneficiaries in the highlands
pay less than 1 percent. This is not surprising since in the rural regions of the Bolivian highlands, the
seasonality of income and the importance of subsistence income complicate the use of such rules of thumb.
Moreover, also not surprisingly, the survey has found that payments of tariffs are not uniform and occur
with many months of delays. However, there are also many communities that have been able to collect the
tariffs and even create a surplus fund which is being used to finance productive activities. It is noteworthy
to indicate that these tariffs were set-up in community meetings on a consensus basis and do not necessarily
include any reserve fund for replacement costs.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project impact on institutional development has been significant. In terms of policy, rural water is now
taken seriously as a matter for govemment attention, both at local and national level. Furthermore, the
project has introduced the concepts of planning for rural water provision based on the principles of a
demand-based approach, of direct beneficiary contribution to and management of water and sanitation
systems and of full cost recovery for sustainable operations. The assimilation of these concepts represents
an important change in the perception of institutional functions in Bolivia.
At the same time, the project has strengthened institutional development in the water sector in practical
forms, through the formal establishment of DIGESBA - within the Bolivian civil service system, through its
support for local management of water and sanitation delivery, thereby introducing a new and key
ramification of the Law of Public Participation. The greatest institutional impact of the project may
eventually be identified at municipal level. The pre-investment exercises and the experience of beneficiary
communities appear to have awakened a serious interest in water and sanitation on the part of local
governments. Some 20 municipalities have already assumed financing of technical capacity for water
supply in the UTIMs on their own. Many other municipalities have begun financing community water and
sanitation projects directly through their budgets.
Finally, the impact of participatory planning at community level and of encouraging beneficiaries to make
choices tied to their own contributions and management will extend beyond the water and sanitation sector
to strengthen local government in general.
- 10-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Appraised in March 1995, the project was approved by the IDA board on January 16, 1996, and the credit
agreement signed on March 28 of the same year. The credit effectiveness was postponed once, but
nonetheless became final less than a month after projected in the Development Credit Agreement, on
October 21, 1996. Project implementation, originally foreseen for four and a half years from mid 1996
through the end of 2000, has taken place over the same period, albeit with a few months of delay. The
original project closing date of December 31, 2000, was extended by six months.
The project coincided with a marked slowdown of economic growth in Bolivia and with a period of
economic stagnation. With the financial crisis in the late 90s, counterpart funding became a serious issue
in project implementation, particularly regarding budget allocations to the participating municipalities (see
below). The economic slowdown was both compounded and in part caused by "El Nino," a global weather
phenomenon which caused major floods and landslides throughout the country in the mid-90s. Moreover, a
number of social unrest hit the country in 1999 and 2000, causing some significant delays in the
implementation of the works in the rural areas.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was influenced by two government programs: a) the decentralization, as established by the Ley
de Participaci6n Popular of 1994, and b) the modernization program established in the Ley de
Organizacion del Poder Ejecutivo, known as the "Ley LOPE." The project design was based on the
assumption that the decentralization would be fully functional sooner than proved the case. Certain delays
can be attributed to the time required to establish procedures for making the budgetary transfers under the
decentralization program required for the municipal counterpart contributions. Counterpart funding (from
municipalities) persisted as an issue at different times, especially in the period 1999-2000 when
Government transfers were reduced (as a result of lower revenues) and municipalities were unable to honor
their commitments. Moreover, some newly elected mayors came to question the commitments of their
predecessors and delayed their contributions. To help address the latter issue, SIF was able to introduce the
automatic withdrawal rights from future budgetary allocations. By project closing, most counterpart
payments had been made (remaining about US$200,000), and municipalities produced their share during
certain periods, even beyond the originally estimated amounts.
The enactment of the Ley LOPE proved key both in building credibility in the water and sanitation sector
and in advancing project implementation. Under the law, the Secretariat of Popular Participation was
promoted to a Ministry of Basic Services and Housing: and the DINASBA transferred to the Vice-Ministry
of Basic Services. A particularly well-respected and influential person who proved a firm supporter of the
project assumed the position of Vice Minister of Basic Services. Under his mandate, DIGESBA (the
department which took over DINASBA's role) enjoyed greater respect and clout in project implementation.
In particular, the new Ministry was able to reinstate the PROSABAR financial policy and assure that the
community development programs were respected. In the event, the naming of a single project coordinator
in 1999 following the Mid Term Review and the elevation and confirmation of DINASBA's official status
as "DIGESBA" linked directly to the office of the vice-Ministry of Basic Services did provide the project,
and the sector, with a clear mandate for policy formulation and the means for resolving conflicts. Following
this reorganization, it was clear that the SIF, which until then had instituted its own (parallel) policies of
the sector, had to fall in line with the Ministry's policies and implement the project as an implementer under
the management of the PROSABAR team. It is noteworthy to indicate that the frequent changes in the
- 1I1 -



ministry hierarchy and the project management (the 1998-1999 period saw about 4 project managers in one
year) contributed somewhat to the slow pace of implementation around the mid-term period.
Until 1998, SIF disbursed mostly IDB funds. These funds were used to construct water supply
infrastructure however without applying the PROSABAR project criteria. The impact of using these funds
without applying the project criteria indicate that a) the investment costs for these first phase sub-projects
have been consistently higher than when the criteria were used (US$130 per capita versus about US$90)
and b) because of lack of coordination between SIF and PROSABAR, the community development
activities for the first phase sub-projects had been delayed and had taken place after the construction of the
infrastructure.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As noted earlier, responsibility for implementation was spread over four levels of government and three
different agencies: the municipalities which received, prioritized and packaged pre-investmnent proposals
from communities; the UNASBAs (later UNASBVIs), located in the Prefecturas at the provincial level
were responsible for contracting and supervising consultants to develop pre-investment packets following
the guidelines established by DIGESBA, at the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing; the SIF
re-evaluated projects approved by the UNASBAS and then contracted and supervised construction, while;
PROSABAR, the project unit within DIGESBA -through NGOs- organized and trained community water
and sanitation committees to manage the new systems, and carried out the rest of the institutional
strengthening component.
Under SEF's incentive structure, the agency was able to charge a fixed percentage (which fluctuated from
24% to as low as 10%) of the evaluated cost of the sub-project. The use of an overhead or administration
fee based on fixed percentage created a bias against small-sized sub-projects and a bias against the use of
low-cost technologies.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As this project was designed on a demand-driven basis, the costs have not changed significantly; however,
the total number of water and sanitation systems were adjusted at the mid-term review to reflect the reality
of the situation. The changes were mainly due to: a) the realization that the communities clearly preferred
gravity -fed systems with house connections; b) the increased number of systems using pumped sources; c)
the per capita costs were found to be higher than originally estimated. Due to exchange rate fluctuations,
the initial total IDA amount of US$20 million equivalent (initially budgeted) was reduced to about US$18
million. The project overall disbursed about US$17.2 million. The US$10 million credit from IDB was
fully disbursed while US$0.4 million of the OPEC's US$5 million remained undisbursed. The Government
had requested a second extension on the closing date but, given the availability of a new US$40 million
credit from IDB for the sector, the IDA decided against the extension.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is considered likely in two aspects. The project has left new water and sanitation
systems constructed with a high likelihood of continued operation, by virtue of the following factors:
*   The organization and training of the CAPYS members or local water committees to administer the
systems based on principles of financial sustainability. Preliminary evidence suggests that the
- 12 -



communities are meeting their payment obligations to a large extent;
*   The training of community members as operators in maintenance, repair and enlargement of water
systems;
* Individual systems are adding on new connections, thus expanding services to new beneficiaries;
* Both municipalities and Prefecturas have demonstrated both a willingness and a capacity to invest in
water and sanitation systems, as shown by the counterpart contribution to PROSABAR;
* The staffing and training of UTIMs at the municipal level to monitor and support the CAPYS; and
* The permanency of the UJNASBVIs at the departmental level to continue support for the UTIMs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Transition to regular operations implies that the SIF assumes responsibility for both construction of
sub-projects and organizing and training communities in managing water and sanitation systems, according
to the sector policies established by DIGESBA. SIF is currently preparing a new credit with IDB which
will finance a $US 40 million program, PROAGUAS, to provide water and sanitation systems for some
450,000 rural residents. SIF will apply the same procedures and principles developed and tested in
PROSABAR to PROAGUAS and, to that end has assigned $US 3.5 million for community development.
In the near future, the transition to regular operations will also imply elimination of a special line of
funding for water and sanitation projects. SIF foresees its next phase of operations as empowering
communities and municipalities to elect water and sanitation programs as part of their overall development
investment plans. The new Ley del Dialogo will introduces a new system for categorizing municipalities
and for calculating budgetary allocations based on formulae which combine efficiency with need.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the IDA in the preparation phase is rated as satisfactory. Project preparation was
based on the lessons of the YACUPAJ demonstration project which was a highly successful partnership
between the World BanklUNDP Water and Sanitation Program, the Dutch Government, and
PROANDES-UNICEF. Moreover, the project preparation took into account lessons from other projects in
IDA's portfolio and designed the PROSABAR based on best practices, while the country's political
environment created the ripe conditions for the introduction of a new project that took advantage of local
and international best practices. The preparation of the project included very detailed analysis of
technological options, institutional arrangements and an exhaustive economic analysis.
7.2 Supervision:
The task supervision is rated as fully satisfactory. The IDA staff carried out 14 supervision missions, an
average of about three per year and maintained close contact with the Borrower during implementation.
The WB/UNDP Water and Sanitation Program also provided some supervision assistance in the early
years of the project. A shift of task team leaders occurred after appraisal and the Bank awarded the project
team - through QAG -the recognition of excellent supervision in 1997. The task team leader changed only
once again after the mid-term review, but a member of the team assumed the lead and remained with the
project until through completion.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the performance by the Bank was judged to be satisfactory.
- 13 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower in the preparation phase was satisfactory. The then Ministry of
Urbanism and Housing which initiated the YACUPAJ project with assistance from the Water and
Sanitation Program and the Dutch Government, followed its development through the entire
implementation. During that period, the Government, through the DINASBA continued to work with the
Water and Sanitation Program to carry out preparatory studies for a larger project -prior to IDA's
participation- with funds from YACUPAJ. The Government played a primary role in preparation,
developing a talented team which continued to work through the PROSABAR implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall it must be recognized that Government has contributed an exceptional effort to this project. In
particular, local government, communities, municipalities and Prefecturas have contributed about 30% of
estimated project costs. At the national level, a sector policy and operating framework has been introduced
and mainstreamed. The PROSABAR team developed a follow-up operation, PROAGUAS, which will
apply the PROSABAR principles and lessons learned from this project.
However, while the involvement of the Ministry of Basic Services and Housing was a boon to the project it
has also produced costs in terms of delays. The Ministry maintained a tight control over the PROSABAR,
frequently delaying the naming of a project coordinator, especially in the period prior to 1999. There have
been instances that many layers of the Ministry's hierarchy were involved in decision making, thus creating
major delays and bottlenecks.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, the implementing agencies' performance (SIF and the PROSABAR team within the Vice Ministry
of Basic Services) is rated satisfactory. Despite their tenuous links in a seemingly complicated
organizational plan, the SIF, PROSABAR, UNASBVIs, municipalities and communities have implanted a
major new policy framework for rural water and sanitation and implemented a project at national scale in a
relatively short time. Notwithstanding, certain issues which emerged in the course of implementation are
noted below.
Coordination of community development and construction phases of individual projects posed a
complicating factor to proper project progress, which involved the concerted effort of both SIF (responsible
for the construction of water and sanitation systems) and the PROSABAR in the Vice Ministry of Basic
Services (responsible for community development for management and operation of systems and
institutional strengthening).
SIF took steps to evaluate and to change its own practices to reduce costs in the course of the project. At
the outset and until the mid-term review, however, SIF had not relinquished its established technical
standards, although these were considerably higher than those set forth by the Ministry of Urban Affairs in
el Manual de Diseno para Sistemas de Abastecimiento de Agua Potable a Poblaciones Menores a 5,000
Habitantes (1995). In late 1997, SIF unilaterally increased the per capita subsidy ceiling to
US$100/beneficiary, on the claim that fewer sub-projects would qualify under the existing ceiling.
Moreover, the SIF's administrative costs exceeded amounts agreed on at appraisal and required a detailed
review before being reduced from a high of 24% to 10% of sub-project costs.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In a period of five years, the Government has assimilated the lessons of the YACUPAJ pilot to a project of
national scale and overseen a dramatic improvement in the situation of rural water and sanitation.
- 14 -



Government has also guaranteed that the lessons of PROSABAR, its guiding principles and procedures
will continue to be applied as part of a national decentralization effort. The lessons of PROSABAR are
being introduced in the follow-up project and will be disseminated through the publication of more than 30
reports and booklets.
8. Lessons Learned
The PROSABAR project was prepared to scale up the results of the YACUPAJ pilot project and was took
into consideration numerous elements of best practices from other Bank projects. It was designed around
the demand driven approach within a decentralized context where the responsibility of the provision of
water and sanitation services had been transferred to the municipalities (along with fiscal resources) and
introduced a coherent financial policy and strong component for community organization, participation and
training component. As in any project, design and implementation often diverge under the day-to-day
pressures and realities on the ground. There are many lessons learned from this project and many have been
incorporated in the follow-up IDB-financed PROAGUAS project.
A. Community Development.
*   Community participation is key for sustainability. Communities must be involved from the start in
the selection of the technical option and the design of the system (location of key infrastructure, timing,
etc.) as well as in the supervision of the construction work (where contractors are involved). Ideally the
community development component should have started prior to the works contract; however under this
project, in the first years, there was a lack of coordination between the SIF (in charge of contracting
out the works) and the PROSABAR team in the Vice Ministry of Basic Services (in charge of
contracting the community development work); however, the project caught up with the initial
mismatch and contracted out the community development work in a number of communities after the
works had been fairly well advanced. It is essential that during the design period, communities are fully
aware of the cost consequences of their choice of service level and from the outset get clear information
on the tariffs that they must cover so system design must demonstrate that operating costs are within
community willingness/capacity to pay.
*   Training should include both men and women. Although efforts were made to bring gender
representation and equality to the project activities, it was clear that by and large hygiene education had
focused almost exclusively on women while maintenance and operation training was geared to mainly
men. Given the role that women play in the provision of water and their primary responsibility for child
rearing, combined with the fact men often leave the village for work in the urban areas, training of the
women and their participation in the CAPYS should be emphasized in future projects.
B. Pricing and Cost issues.
* Communities and municipalities have also demonstrated capacity to finance high percentage of
investment costs. Their contribution should be recalculated accordingly, but with possibility of local
(cheaper) contracting. Contracting through SIF has not proven to be cost effective. Municipalities have
long argued that the high overheads charged by SIF were not justified and were willing to bypass SIF.
The new IDB project was designed with the municipalities carrying out the bidding process.
Communities have demonstrated capacity to pay operation and maintenance costs plus some reserve
for replacement and expansion; consequently serious efforts should be spent to set the tariffs at a level
that could guarantee the sustainability of the systems. Many communities reported surplus in their
account which was used to provide micro-credits to the beneficiaries.
*   A "Price and subsidy cap" is an important tool to force a review and reduction of costs and
- 15-



stretch the public money to reach more people. However, the "price cap" has a tendency to be
considered a minimum expense, rather than a maximum. In many cases, under the advice of the design
engineers, communities have adopted technologies up to the limit of the ceiling ignoring the
appropriateness of the technology for their cases. Moreover, under this project, SIF had every incentive
to revise the design to meet its high standards and increase the per capita costs, on which it applied its
administrative costs.
*   The tendency for costs to increase with each added actor is noted (consultant to Prefecture, to
SIF to contractor back to SIF). Bureaucratic steps in design elaboration, design review and
approvals, contracting at the central level all add up to the total costs, create distances between the
beneficiaries and the final decision makers and diminish the transparency of the processes. Most
activities should remain at the beneficiaries level and the immediate level of government. Output-based
approach (with small scale private operator) could be very applicable for this type of project, with the
operator financing the difference between the minimum subsidy level and the total cost of the level of
service chosen.
*   Incentives matter. To entice the SIF to consider low-cost options and reduce the final costs of the
sub-projects, consideration should be given to a two-tiered overhead rates (for administrative
expenses). For example, if the difference between the investment cost and the cap is positive, then a
lower overhead rate would be in place than when the investment is smaller that the cap.
C. Implementation Issues
*   One agency should be responsible for all aspects of project implementation. The often poor
coordination between the SIF (implementing the infrastructure component) and the PROSABAR team
(implementing the community development sub-component) has created situations where the full
benefits of integrated approach whereby the community development is carried out before, during and
after the physical works have sometimes been missed. Project implementation picked up in the final 2
years of the project when the SIF increased its coordination with PROSABAR and acted as a
implementer under the overall supervision of the PIj in the Ministry.
*   Reduce the number of contracts and increase the size of the packages to the extent possible.
Given the time consuming aspect of procurement and the small size of each sub-projects, works could
be packaged in large lots and bid out on the basis of sub-regions. At the beginning of the project, major
delays were observed as a result of the number of small packages being bid out. When no contractors
were coming forward for the size and difficult access of the project areas, the concept of
auto-construction was introduced with the idea of hiring NGO to provide the goods and supervise the
construction using local labor.
*   Propose early involvement of the municipalities which have shown increasing interest and
capacity. The practice of SIF re-designing the systems (after submnission by the UNASBA) and
expecting municipalities to pay on a non-negotiable basis has proved dysfunctional in many cases.
Municipalities have often questioned the costs tagged by SEF on their redesign and the high
administrative costs imposed on each sub-project. Municipalities have maintained that they are
capable of contracting the same sub-projects for up 40% cheaper on their own, including community
development.
* Counterpart funding should be assured from the outset. In the second half of the project and after
municipal elections, many newly elected mayors started questioning the investment decisions of former
mayors. In many cases they stopped paying their counterpart which led to the paralysis of the works
and contractual difficulties. SEF stepped in and instituted the automatic debit from the Government
transfers to the Municipalities, a situation that created much uneasiness among project participants. At
the same time, the mayors questioned the legitimacy of the high costs that were being charged (in most
- 16 -



cases that led this impasse, the per capita costs were much higher than the caps and therefore the
municipalities were contributing a relatively large percentage of the total costs).
* Simplify the process of design and system of approval. In many cases the process of developing a
design and review and approval process has taken more than a year for simple systems. Discussions
with NGOs indicate that designs for these basic systems do not warrant the type of elaborate designs
required by SIF. In many cases, a simple schematic drawing should suffice.
* Community development and training should continue after construction. There is a need to
continue to train operators on the job and reinforce the hygiene messages transmitted during the project
construction. There is further need of continued evaluation of the impact of the messages and the habit
changes that have been promoted. For this end, future projects should consider financing this long-term
follow-up or ensure as part of project design that municipal governments are in charge for these
activities (this latter option needs to be piloted and municipal government given proper incentives to
carry out this activity). Continued workshops and training for operators were very much appreciated,
not only to brush up and update knowledge, but to meet with and to exchange experiences with other
operators.
*   Increase the use of auto-construction method with the help of NGOs. Although auto-construction
was introduced half way through the project, it should have been used more frequently.
Auto-construction -where the external agency pays only for nonlocal materials and supervises the
construction - clearly reduces the costs of the projects. Non governmental organizations (like CARE,
UNICEF, Catholic Relief Services) have used auto-construction regularly and show significantly lower
costs than SIF. The failure to use auto-construction more frequently under this project has pushed the
costs up. The advantage of using NGOs is that they usually have a foothold in the area and stay there
afterwards.
*   Demand for sanitation has to be generated mainly through a process of hygiene awareness and
promotion and seems to follow access to water. The demand for sanitation was much lower than
originally anticipated. It is important that awareness for sanitation be included in the community
development activities and that much more work is required at the grass root level to promote the
benefits of sanitation in the rural areas. moreover, one of the results of the anthropological study on
latrines indicate that among some Andean groups, there is a resistance to bury wastes in the ground
(Mother Earth). Project designs should take into account the cultural realities and include them in the
implementation of projects.
D. Technical.
*   Consider lower cost technologies and avoid over-design. There is on the part of SIF a tendency to
over-design sub-projects that are based on a) overly optimistic population growth rates for rural areas
and b) maximum instead of minimum daily water volumes/person. Under the project, the tendency has
been to adopt high levels of service even for small dispersed communities of less than 100 persons (i.e.
households connections instead of public standpipes, rainwater catchment systems, protected springs).
SIF personnel claim that users demand house connections, but this expressed preference is clearly
biased by the presence of external funding which is administered by SIF; this factor has distorted the
market, creating expectations among potential beneficiaries that they could not otherwise afford.
E. Institutional aspects.
*   In the system design stage, the participation of the municipal government contributes to an
increased participation of the community. Under the project, the municipal government prioritized
the communities that would receive funds from the Departmental Government for the design of the
- 17 -



system. The design engineer selected and paid by the UNASBAs often ignored the municipal
government in this phase and in some cases had little contact with community. The involvement of the
municipal government at this phase ensures that the community consultation is carried out in a
participatory manner and that the community feels that the municipal government is helping them in the
process. In many cases the UNASBAs have provided little or no supervision of the process of design.
*   Supervisors (of works) - an important element in the chain of activities - should be paid decent
salaries to attract competent people and provide incentives to fully carry out their
responsibilities. One of the elements of sustainability is no doubt the quality of the construction.
Under this project, the low salaries paid to the supervisors created a disincentive for the proper
supervision of the works. Many communities have complained about the quality of the works and the
lack of supervision. Supervisors (engineers) have complained about the low salaries which did not
cover the high cost of frequent travel to remote areas and that in many cases they had to rely on
transportation offered by the contractor, creating clear conflicts of interest and possibility of collusion.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 10
(b) Cofinanciers:
See Annex I1
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators
SAR        MTR         ACTUAL
Project Development Objectives
To increase the coverage and     Number of new beneficiaries 425,573  368,411     330,580
sustainable use of water and     (Water)
sanitation services in rural
communities and municipalities.  Number of new beneficiaries 346,929  51,537      99,513
(sewer and latrines)
Project Outputs
Water supply systems constructed  No . of water systems   1,216       772         762
constructed
Sewer system constructed                                              28          27
No of sewer projects
Latrines constructed                                      67,054      3,430        12,121
No of Latrines
UNASBAs strengthened to assist the                        1,277        1,078       1,078
local water and sanitation units in  No. of projects submitted by the
developing the capacity to provide  UNASBA to SIF
technical assistance to municipal
governments and local communities.
Municipal governments strengthened                        100        182          189
No. of municipal governments
To support the sustainability of                          1,216      956         989
water and sanitation services  No. of communities receiving
dirough extensive training of  training through the community
community-level operators and  development program (see note
administrators                 A)                         2,432       1,842       1,826
To strengthen the capacity of  No. of operators trained   6           12          17
DINASBA to formulate policies,
prepare technical standards and  No. of workshops on policies
mobilize financial resources   and strategy               16         3           8
No. of monitoring and
evaluation reports
Project Components
Provision of Water Supply in                              $26.1       $33.9       $34.69
- 19 -



rural communities.                                      million    million    million
(water and
Provision of Sanitary Facilities for                              sanitation)
rural communities                                       $9.6 million $3.90    $3.60 million
million
Sector Strengthening
$5.8 million           $6.81 million
$7.30
Training                                                           million
$1.1       (Sector
million    strengthenin
Project management                                                 g, training
and Project
PPF                                                     $1.4 million management
)           $1.66 million
Pre-Investment                                          $1.7 million
$2.30 million
$2.3 million $1.66
million
$2.30
million
Note A. The number of communities receiving training is higher that the number of water systems built
due to the fact that the Project financed these activities in communities receiving works through NGOs
such as Project Concern International, Plan Internacional and SIF were also included.
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project. Cost By Component          US$ million  US$ million
Infrastructure
Water                                           26.10          31.10           1.19
Sanitation                                       9.60           3.60          0.38
Institutional
Project Management                               1.40           1.09          0.71
Sector Strengthening                             5.80           5.30          0.91
Training                                         1.10           0.50          0.45
Other
Pre-lnvestments                                  2.30           2.30           100
PPF                                              1.70           1.66          0.98
Total Baseline Cost                               48.00         45.55
Total Project Costs           48.00          45.55
Total Financing Required           48.00          45.55
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method,
Expenditure Category-    ICB                                   N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    3.00         9.00         3.00        15.00        30.00
(1.00)       (5.00)      (1.00)       (0.00)       (7.00)
2. Goods                    3.00         2.00         0.70         0.00        5.70
(2.00)       (0.75)      (0.25)       (0.00)       (3.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00         12.30        0.00        12.30
(0.00)       (0.00)      (10.00)       (0.00)      (10.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     6.00        11.00        16.00        15.00       48.00
(3.00)      (5.75)      (11.25)       (0.00)      (20.00)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB                2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
.                        - ~~~~~~Other
1. Works                          0.00           12.71           0.00          22.00          34.71
(0.00)         (8.64)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (8.64)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.24           0.00           0.00           0.24
(0.00)         (0.24)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.24)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           6.64           2.30           8.94
(0.00)         (0.00)          (6.64)         (0.00)         (6.64)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           1.66           0.00           1.66
(0.00)          (0.00)         (1.66)         (0.00)         (1.66)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          0.00            12.95          8.30           24.30         45.55
(0.00)          (8.88)         (8.30)         (0.00)        (17.18)
Disbursements by Categories (at October 30, 2001)
Category Description   Appraisal  Appraisal  Amended '99     Disbursed  Disbursed   Undisb.
_________________________  SDR million  USSmillion  SDR million  SDR million  US$million USS million
1 SUBGRANTS (SIF Infrastructure)  6.65      9.93         6.65         6.46       8.63       0.25
2 GOODS                          0.27       0.40         0.27         0.18       0.24       0.11
3 WORKS (Inst. Component)        0.13       0.19         0.29         0.00       0.00       0.37
4 CONS,TNG,UNDP,TRAV-C           4.29       6.40         4.92         4.87       6.53       0.05
5 TRAINING                       0.67       1.00         0.03         0.03       0.04       0.00
6 TRAVEL                         0.08       0.12         0.02         0.02       0.02       0.00
7 UNDP FEE                       0.18       0.27         0.03         0.03       0.05       0.00
8 REFIN. PPF 820/1/2             1.13       1.69         1.20         1.16       1.66       0.05
TOTAL (for all Categories)    13.40      20.00        13.40        12.73       17.18      0.86
The total amount available for disbursement at the end of the project was US$18.04 million due to
fluctuation of the SDR exchange rate.
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 22 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
. - :  -  :  . .                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage Of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimale
._________._____._  IDA  Goti.    CoF.       FDA      Govt      CoF.    IDA   Govt.   CoF.
Infrastructure          10.00     10.70     15.00     8.63     11.47    14.60    86.3   107.2  97.3
Water                  7.30      7.81     10.95     7.86      10.54    12.70   107.7  135.0  116.0
Sanitation             2.70      2.89     4.05      0.77      0.93      1.90    28.5   32.2   46.9
Institutional            8.30                        6.89                        83.0
Project Management     1.40                         1.09                        77.9
Sector Strengthening   5.80                         5.30                        91.4
Training               1.10                         0.50                        45.5
0.00                                                     0.0
Other                    1.70     2.30                1.66                       97.6    0.0
Pre-Investments                           2.30                2.30                            0.0
PPF                    1.70                         1.66                        97.6
TOTAL                   20.00     13.00    15.00     17.18     13.77    14.60    85.9   105.9  97.3
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The recalculation of the economic costs and benefits was done (a) for two types of technology options
accounting for 90% of the systems built under the project (namely, gravity-fed - Table A - and pumped
systems -Table B- and (b) on the entire project (including all costs: investments, institutional and
pre-investment - see Table C-) and c) on the water component only- Table D- (about 70% of the
investments). To simplify the analysis and given the lack of unreliability of the original data on the health,
productivity and institutional benefits, only the benefits related to time savings were estimated. A discount
factor of 10% was used in all calculations with an adjusted wage rate that is equal to 60 percent of the
rural wage rate (rural wage: Bs. 12 per day, 1999). The average cost and number of beneficiaries of a
gravity and pumped system was based on a sample of 338 systems and 137 systems, respectively.
- 24 -



Table A         Gravity Water Supply Systems: Results of Economic Analysis
Beneficiaries  Year      Time     Investment   O&M       Total    Net Benefits
Savings      Costs      Costs     Costs
329        1999     $21,615    $193,857    $1,579   $195,436   -$173,821
336        2000     $22,048                $1,611    $1,611     $20,437
342        2001     $22,489                $1,643    $1,643     $20,846
349        2002     $22,938                $1,676    $1,676     $21,262
356        2003     $23,397                $1,709    $1,709     $21,688
363        2004     $23,865                $1,744    $1,744     $22,121
371        2005     $24,342                $1,778    $1,778     $22,564
378        2006     $24,829                $1,814    $1,814     $23,015
385        2007     $25,326                $1,850    $1,850     $23,475
393        2008     $25,832                $1,887    $1,887     $23,945
401        2009     $26,349                $1,925    $1,925     $24,424
409        2010     $26,876                $1,964    $1,964     $24,912
417        2011     $27,413                $2,003    $2,003     $25,411
426        2012     $27,962                $2,043    $2,043     $25,919
434        2013     $28,521                $2,084    $2,084     $26,437
443        2014     $29,091                $2,125    $2,125     $26,966
452        2015     $29,673                $2,168    $2,168     $27,505
461        2016     $30,267                $2,211    $2,211     $28,055
470        2017     $30,872                $2,255    $2,255     $28,616
479        2018     $31,489                $2,301    $2,301     $29,189
NPV                $210,512                         $191,614
NPV at 10%      $18,899
ERR                12%
BIC ratio          1.10
Assumptions:
Gravity, house connections, dense
329 persons; (average of 338 systems)
daily wage, Bs. 12 (1999)
Shadow wage rate 0.6
time savings: 1 hour per day per household
pop. growth rate: 2%
O&M: Bs. 2 per month per household
Investment:US$34010 (Bs.5.7/US$, 1999)
Discount rate: 10%
- 25 -



Table B         Results of Economic Analysis for Pumped Water Supply Systems
Beneficiaries   Year      Time      Investment      O&M         Total      Net Benefits
Savings      Costs        Costs        Costs
683         1999     $44,873     $383,553     $16,392      $399,945     -$355,072
697         2000     $45,771                  $16,720      $16,720       $29,051
711         2001     $46,686                  $17,054      $17,054       $29,632
725         2002     $47,620                   $17,395     $17,395       $30,224
739         2003     $48,572                  $17,743      $17,743       $30,829
754         2004     $49,544                   $18,098     $18,098       $31,445
769         2005     $50,534                   $18,460     $18,460.      $32,074
785         2006     $51,545                   $18,829     $18,829       $32,716
800         2007     $52,576                   $19,206     $19,206       $33,370
816         2008     $53,628                   $19,590     $19,590       $34,038
833         2009     $54,700                   $19,982     $19,982       $34,718
849         2010     $55,794                   $20,381     $20,381       $35,413
866         2011     $56,910                   $20,789     $20,789       $36,121
884         2012     $58,048                   $21,205     $21,205       $36,843
901         2013     $59,209                   $21,629     $21,629       $37,580
919         2014     $60,393                   $22,061     $22,061       $38,332
938         2015     $61,601                   $22,503     $22,503       $39,098
956         2016     $62,833                   $22,953     $22,953       $39,880
975         2017     $64,090                   $23,412     $23,412       $40,678
995         2018     $65,372                   $23,880     $23,880       $41,492
NPV                  $437,021                              $508,327
NPV at 10%    ($71,306)
ERR           7%
B/C ratio      0.86
Assumptions;
Pumped systems, house connections, dense
683 persons; 137 households
daily wage, Bs. 12 (1999)
Shadow wage rate 0.6
time savings: 1 hour per day per household
pop. growth rate: 2%
O&M: Bs.10 per month per household
lnvestment:US$67290 (Bs.5.7/US$, 1999)
Discount rate: 10%
- 26 -



Table C            Results of Economic Analysis (entire PROSABAR Project)
Benef.     Benef.     Year      Time savings    Investment  Investment   Investment    O&M        O&M          Total    Net Benefits
Water    Sewerage                  (Bs.)          Costs     Sanitation  Instiututlonal  Water   Sanitalton    Costs
(Bs.)        (Bs.)       (Be.)       (Bs.)      (Bs.)       (Bs.)        (Bs.)
5000                    1996         $328,500    $2,681,034                 5593,966   $55,194               $3,330,194  -3001694
32000                    1997       $2,102,400  $14,477,586                $3,207,414  $118,475              $17,803,475  -15701075
85500      7000          1998       $5,617,350  $28,687,069  $1,443,618    $6,355,431  $248,276              $36,734,394  -31117044
140500     11800         1999       $9,230,850   $29,491,379   5989.910    $6,533,621  5407,985   $283,200   $37,706,095  -28475245
251700     33000         2000       $16,536,690  $59.626,207  54,372.101  $13,209,793  $730,889    $792,000  $78,730,990  -62194300
330600     99500         2001       $21,720,420  $42,306,724  S13,714.372  $9,372,776  $960,000    5840.000  567,193,872  -45473452
337212    101490         2002       522,154,828                                        $979,200    $856,800   $1,836,000  20318828
343956     103520        2003       $22,597,925                                        5998.784    $873.936   $1.872,720  20725205
350835    105590         2004       $23,049,883                                       $1,018,760   $891,415   $1,910,174  21139709
357852     107702        2005       523,510,881                                       51,039.135   $909,243   51,948,378  21562503
365009    109856         2006       $23,981,099                                       51.059,918   $927,428   51,987,345  21993753
372309    112053         2007       524,460,721                                      $1,081,116    5945,976   52,027,092  22433628
379755    114294         2008       524.949,935                                       $1,102,738   $964,896   $2,067,634  22882301
387351    116580         2009       525,448,934                                       $1,124,793   $984,194   52.108,987  23339947
395098    118912         2010       525,957,913                                       $1,147,289  $1,003,878  $2,151,167  23806746
403000     121290        2011       526.477,071                                       51,170,235  51,023,955  $2,194,190  24282881
411060    123716         2012       527,006,612                                       51,193,639  $1,044.434  52,238,074  24768538
419281     126190        2013       527,546,744                                       51,217.512  51,065,323  52,282,835  25263909
427666    128714         2014       $28,097,679                                       51.241,862  51,086.630  $2,328,492  25769187
436220     131288        2015       528.659,633                                       $1,266,700  $1,108,362  52.375,062  26284571
444944     133914        2016       529,232,826                                       51.292,034  51.130.529  52,422,563  26810263
453843     136592        2017       529,817,482                                       $1,317,674  $1,153,140  $2,471,014  27346468
462920    139324         2018       $30,413,832                                       51,344,232  51,176,203  $2,520,435  27893397
NPV                               5148,106.584                                                              167,274,708
NPV at 10%    (19,168,124)
ERR               8%
B/C ratio        0.89
Beneficiaries    Cost (uss)                               Beneficisires     O&M (Balhhdlmo)
Total Water:                 330600         S31,100,000   Gravity                  200000              2
Total Sanitation              99500          $3,600,000   Pumping                  110000              10
institutional                                56,890,000   handpump                 20600               1
Pro-inv &Prepara                             $3,960,000
330600
$45,550,000
Assumptions:
35,000 beneficiaries from sewerage; 64,500 from latrines
O&M sewerage: Bsl 0 per household per month
daily wage, Bs. 12 (1999)
Shadow wage rate 0.6
time savings: 1 hour per day per household
pop. growth rate: 2%
Discount rate: 10%
- 27 -



Table D:        Results of Economic Analysis (Water Component Only)
Year Beneficiaries  Time savings         Investment      O&M           Total    Net Benefits
(Bs.)                    Costs                      Costs          (Bs.)
(Bs.)
1996         5000             $328,500    $2,681,034      $55,194     $2,736,229      -2407729
1997        32000           $2,102,400   $14,477,586     $118,475    $14,596,062     -12493662
1998        85500           $5,617,350   $28,687,069     $248,276    $28,935,345     -23317995
1999       140500           $9,230,850   $29,491,379     $407,985    $29,899,365     -20668515
2000       251700          $16,536,690   $59,626,207      $730,889   $60,357,096     -43820406
2001       330600          $21,720,420   $42,306,724      $960,000   $43,266,724     -21546304
2002       337212          $22,154,828                    $979,200     $979,200       21175628
2003       343956          $22,597,925                    $998,784     $998,784       21599141
2004       350835          $23,049,883                  $1,018,760    $1,018,760      22031124
2005       357852          $23,510,881                  $1,039,135    $1,039,135      22471746
2006       365009          $23,981,099                  $1,059,918    $1,059,918      22921181
2007       372309          $24,460,721                  $1,081,116    $1,081,116      23379605
2008       379755          $24,949,935                  $1,102,738    $1,102,738      23847197
2009       387351          $25,448,934                  $1,124,793    $1,124,793      24324141
2010       395098          $25,957,913                  $1,147,289    $1,147,289      24810624
2011       403000          $26,477,071                  $1,170,235    $1,170,235      25306836
2012       411060          $27,006,612                  $1,193,639    $1,193,639      25812973
2013       419281          $27,546,744                  $1,217,512    $1,217,512      26329232
2014       427666          $28,097,679                  $1,241,862    $1,241,862      26855817
2015       436220          $28,659,633                  $1,266,700    $1,266,700      27392933
2016       444944          $29,232,826                  $1,292,034    $1,292,034      27940792
2017       453843          $29,817,482                  $1,317,874    $1,317,874      28499608
2018       462920          $30,413,832                  $1,344,232    $1,344,232      29069600
NPV                   $148,106,584                              123,606,623
NPV at 10%         24,499,961
ERR                      13%
B/C rato                1.20
Benef.   O&M (Bslhhd/mo)
Gravity     200000          2
Pumpir       110000         10
handpt       20600          1
330600
Assumptions:
35,000 beneficiaries from sewerage; 64,500 from latrines
O&M sewerage: Bsl 0 per household per month
daily wage, Bs. 12 (1999)
Shadow wage rate 0.6
time savings: 1 hour per day per household
pop. growth rate: 2%
Discount rate: 10%
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
February 1993
Appraisal/Negotiation
April 1995                 10    2 Engineers, 1 Economist, 2
Financial Policy, 1
Environmental Specialist, 2
Procurement Specialists, 2
Community Development
Supervision
July 1995                    1   1 Engineer                        S             HS
April 1996                   1   1 Economist                       S             HS
Oct. -Nov. 1996              2   1 Engineer, I Economist           S             S
March 1997                   1   1 Engineer                        S             S
November 1997                3   2 Engineer, 1 Economist            S            S
March 1998                   2   1 Engineer, 1 Economist           U             S
June 1998                    1   1 Community Development
December 1998                4   1 Engineer, 1 Economist, I         S            S
Community Development, 1
Procurement Specialist
March 1999                   1   1 Financial                        S             S
May 1999                     3   1 Engineer, 1 Economist, 1         S             S
Community Development
October 1999                 2   1 Engineer, 1 Community            S            S
Development
February 2000                2   1 Engineer, 1 Community            S             S
Development
August 2000                  1   1 Community Development            S            S
November 2000                1   1 Engineer                         S             S
ICR
June 2001                   3     1 Engineer, 1 Community
Development, 1 Sanitation
Specialist
- 29 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                18.7                       45.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    43.4                       121.1
Supervision                            125.09                       345.7
ICR                                      5.55                        28.4
Total                                  192.74                       540.8
- 30-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                        O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
O Sector Policies                      * H   OSUOM     ON    O NA
L Physical                             OH    *SUOM     ON    ONA
L Financial                            OH    *SUOM     ON    DNA
O Institutional Development            0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Li Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction              O H  *SUOM      O N   D NA
FS Gender                        O H  * SUOM     O N   O NA
2 Other(Pleasespecify)           O H  *SUOM      O N   D NA
Hygiene education
O Private sector development           Q H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management             0 H  * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               OH   OSUOM      ON    D NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
 Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 32-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Aguilar & Asociados S.R.L., Definicion de Una Estrategia de Intervenci6n Intersectorial
Salud-Saneamiento Basico", UNDP, Ministerio de Vivienda y Servicios Basicos, October, 2000
Cadima, Rolando, Evaluaci6n Final, Segundo Proyecto Fondo de Inversi6n Social Credito AIF-2532 y
Cofinanciadores, Marzo 2000, Fondo de Inversion Social
Cadima, Rolando, Impacto de las Operaciones y Lecciones Aprendidas en los Programas de
Saneamiento Basico: Programa BID-90/SF-BO, Proyecto de Saneamiento Basico, PROSABAR,
Diciembre de 1998, Fondo de Inversion Social
Gaceta Oficial de Bolivia, Ley de Participaci6n Popular, April 20, 1994
Gaceta Oficial de Bolivia, Reglamento de la Ley de Participaci6n Popular, July 1, 1994
PROSABAR, Analisis de la Experiencia de PROSABAR, - working document - June 24, 2001
Van den Berg, Caroline, Investment Ceilings, Do They Work ? Preliminary Experience from Bolivia,
Internal Paper, World Bank, 1998
Saavedra, Filiberto, at al. Desempeno Institucional del PROSABAR - Informe de Evaluacion, November
2000
Fundacion Sumaj Huasi, Evaluacion de la calidad del Agua en los Sistemas Construidos por el
PROSABAR, Junio 2001
- 33-



Additional Annex 8.
Documents Produced by PROSABAR
In addition to the physical outcomes of the Project, a large number of studies and training materials were
developed by the Project. Before the closing of the Project, a major effort was spent in editing these
materials and to make them available to a wide audience. As a result of this effort over 30 glossy and
attractively designed publications were produced (a copy of each is available in our files). Because of
budget constraints most documents were printed in small quantities (100-200 copies). The existence of
these documents has already generated an interest from an international NGO to use these documents for its
work and also to help print more copies to make them widely available.
1. Manual of Training Material SARAR (Llanos Region) - "Juegos Tecnicos SARAR (Llanos), Manual
de Uso"
2. Manual of Training Material SARAR (Valle Region) - "Juegos Tecnicos SARAR (Valles), Manual de
Uso"
3. Manual of Training Material SARAR (Altiplano Region)- "Juegos Tecnicos SARAR (Altiplano),
Manual de Uso"
4. Manual for Operation and Maintenance of Rural Water Systems - "Manual de Operaci6n y
Mantenimiento de Sistemas de Agua Rurales"
5. Manual for Operation and Maintenance of Pumped Systems - "Manual de Operaci6n y Mantenimiento
de Sistemas de Agua por Bombeo"
6. Manual for Operation and Maintenance of Sewerage Systems - "Manual de Operaci6n y Mantenimiento
de Sistemas de Alcantarillado"
7. Operation and Maintenance of Wastewater Treatment Systems - "Operaci6n y Mantenimiento de
Sistemas de Tratamiento de Aguas Residuales"
8. Booklet: Let's Build our Flush Latrine - "Cartilla: Construyamos Nuestra Letrina con Arrastre de
Agua"
9. Booklet: Bricklaying Manual for Basic Sanitation Works - "Cartilla: Manual de Albafiileria para Obras
de Saneamiento Basico"
10. Booklet: The Rural Woman and the Importance of Organization - "Cartillas: La Mujer Campesina y la
Importancia de Organizarse"
11. Booklet: Dirty and Clean - "Cartilla: Sucio y Limpio
12. Booklet for Basic Sanitation - "Cartilla: Educativa sobre Saneamiento Basico
13. Booklet: Promotion - "Cartilla: Promotor"
14. Booklet: Opening the Way - Cartilla: Abriendo Caminos
15. Booklet: Hygiene Education Project - "Cartilla: Proyecto Educaci6n Sanitaria"
16. Booklet: Water is Life, Adventures of Atuj Antono and Cumpa Cuy - "Agua es Vida, Aventuras del
Atuj Antonio y el Cumpa Cuy"
17. Booklet: Hygiene, Water and Heath - "Cartilla: Higiene, Agua y Salud"
18. Booklet: Dry Latrine, Use and Maintenance - "Cartilla: Letrina Seca, Uso y Mantenimiento"
19. Booklet: Let's Build Our Well with a Manual Pump - "Cartilla: "Construyamos Nuestro Pozo
Excavado con Bomba Manual"
20. National Strategy for Rural Sanitation - "Estrategia Nacional de Saneamiento Rural"
21. Certification Program for Operators - "Programa de Certificaci6n de Operadores"
22. Strategy for the Basic Sanitation Network - "Estrategia de la Red de Saneamiento Basico"
23. Study on the Demand Generation Process - "Estudio de Proceso de Generaci6n de la Demanda"
24. Program for Water Quality Control - "Programa de Control de la Calidad del Agua"
- 34 -



25. Anthropological Study about the culture of Water and Sanitation - "Estudio Antropol6gico sobre la
Cultura de Agua y Saneamiento"
26. Community Development - First and Second Cycles - "Desarrollo Comunitario - Primer y Segundo
Ciclos"
27. Household Dry Eco Latrine - "La Letrina Abonera Seca Familiar"
28. Module I - Community Development: Methodology for Participation and Community Management -
M6dulo I - Desarrollo Comunitario: Enfoque Metodol6gico para Participaci6n y Gesti6n Comunitaria"
29. Module II - Community Development: Organization and Community Mobilization - "M6dulo II -
Desarrollo Comunitario: Organizaci6n y Movilizaci6n Comunitaria"
30. Module III - Community Development: Hygiene and Environmental Education - "M6dulo III -
Desarrollo Comunitario: Educaci6n Sanitaria y Ambiental"
31. Module IV - Community Development: Training of Munucipal Govemments - "M6dulo IV: Desarrollo
Comunitario: Capacitaci6n a Gobiernos Municipales"
- 35 -



Additional Annex 9.
Beneficiary Assessment
Evaluation Workshop with Four Focal Groups
Santa Cruz 06/21/2001
(55 persons from four municipalities)
BENEFICIOS                                      PROBLEMAS Y SUGERENCIAS
Apoyo a la Higiene de Ia poblaci6n rural                  Mejorar las condiciones de fiscalizaci6n de obras
Mejora las condiciones para la no propagaci6n de enfermedades  Ampliar los beneficiarios
Acostumbramiento al uso de letrina
Lo positivo del PROSABAR ha sido el apoyo prestado a la   Lo negativo del proyecto ha sido que los politicos aprovechan
instalaci6n de los sistemas de agua y letrinas ecol6gicas, pero  para hacer campaffa con las obras.
sera mas importante que continute con este asesoramiento
El area rural ha podido acceder a lo que es letrinizaci6n y con ello  Las Alcaldias no apuntan al Saneamiento Basico. Otro
se ha fortalecido la organizaci6n comunal gracias a la    problerna es la gran burocracia con las entidades estatales,
capacitaci6n                                              sobre todo con los desembolsos
Es que de todo lo que se ha hecho nos estamos beneficiando  No vi nada malo
todos los comunarios para bien de nuestra salud
La participaci6n comunitaria (Educaci6n)                  Estudios deficientes
ObjetUvos finales, salud, bienestar y poblaciones necesitadas  FaKa de Evaluaci6n
Falta de Supervisi6n a la obra
Proyectos deben ser actualizados previa su licitaci6n
El beneficio que trajo a las comunidades los sistemas de agua,  La evaluaci6n de los proyectos, tuvo fallas con relaci6n al
mejorando la salud de las personas, sus viviendas con la  estudio de anteproyecto al momento de construirlo.
construcci6n de batfos higi6nicos.
Recorte en los proyectos por falta de financiamiento por
parte del municipio creando susceptibilidad en las
comunidades
Llegar a comunidades con dotaci6n de agua, con el componente  Poca participaci6n de las autoridades Municipales
de Saneamiento Bisico (construcci6n de letinas) y hacer
participativo el trabajo en las comunidades.
Poco tiempo para capacitaci6n y seguimiento en ietfnas
La posibilidad de apoyar en comunidades muy deprimidas con  La necesidad de apoyo mas representativo con Instituciones
saneamiento                                               que no estan muy profundizadas con el proyecto de
Desarrollo Comunitario
El desarrollo comunitario que ha sido un eje basico para lograr un
desarrollo con cualquier Upo de proyecto
Los proyectos han beneficiado a comunidades relativamente  Retraso y faKta de sededad en el pago oportuno de las
pobres lo cual mejora el abandono de los comunaros de sus  contrapartes
tierras.
Buena predisposici6n de los comunarios (usuarios)         La no predisposici6n de autorldades Municipales
Apoyo de autoridades comunarias                           Poco inter6s de autoridades Municipales
Cumpli6 con los objetivos la construcci6n de estas letrnas  Costumbre en el uso de las letrinas
(saneamiento basico)
Permiti6 dotar de agua potable a diferentes comunidades rurales  Las dificuKtades que surgen en tiempo, entre la aprobaci6n y
que de no ser por este programa hasts el presente no estarian  el inicio de obras
contando con esto servicio.
Muchos de los proyectos ejecutados a diseffo final por este
programa, no han sido ejecutados.
El beneficdo de proveer agua potable a varias comunidades  El alto porcentaje de las Alcaldias en la contraparte
Reducir las enfermedades                                  El 70-30 es insuficiente para dotar de servicios a muchas
comunidades
Evitar la emigraci6n a comunidades con los servicios basicos  Mayor control en la elaborac6n de los proyectos
La partUcipaci6n de la Comunidad en especial resaltar la  Demora en el dep6sito de contrapartes de los Municiplos
presencia de la mujer
El programa de desarrollo comunitario que ha permitido la  Los retrasos en los desembolsos de los financiamientos
organizaci6n,capacitaci6n, movilizaci6n de la comunidad muy  durante la ejecuci6n de obras ylo el desarrollo comunitaro.
bueno par la sostenibilidad
- 36 -



El entuciasmo en el trabajo por parte del equipo humano del
PROSABAR, muy comprometidos con el pueblo
La metodologia de trabajo
Para mi este proyecto fue muy bueno porque benefici6 a    Para mi el proyecto fue muy dificultoso por motivo de tiempo
muchas familias pobres.
Estamos contentos que siga adelante
Para mi comunidad lo bueno es toda la ayuda que nos han   Lo malo sigue faltando ayuda con el manenimiento de
hecho con la perforaci6n del pozo, construcci6n del sistema,  caminos
capacitacion y letrinas y la enserianza en el manejo
Ampli6 la cobertura de agua potable en comunidades rurales  En algunos casos no fue suficiente la capacitaci6n en
operaci6n y mantenimiento a los Comites de agua
Reducci6n de enfermedades infecciosas de oagen hidrico
Ha mejorado el nivel de vida de la poblaci6n nural
Las comunidades han sido capacitadas para administrar,
operar y mantener los sistemas de agua potable
El agua potable es muy buena                              Esperamos que sigan ayudando en las comunidades
Asi tambien las letrnas aboneras
La capacitaci6n sobre el sistema de agua y en salud
Lo bueno ha sido el agua potable, tanque elevado, letrinas  Queremos mas capacitaci6n sobre mecanica.
ecol6gicas aboneras y la capacitaci6n en mantenimiento e
higiene
Mejoramiento del agua en Tupaj katari (La Guardia)        Ejecutar mas proyectos en la Guardia
El proyecto ya hecho realidad ha sido muy bueno.          Esperamos que nos den mas cursos de capacitaci6n y se
abran mas proyectos en nuestras comunidades
Ha cambiado la vida en el campo
Hay menos enfermedades, ha mejorado la salud y la
educaci6n sanitara
Tambien las letrinas nos mejora la salud y el medio ambiente
- 37 -



Grupo A
COMPONENTE                           POSITIVO                      PROBLEMAS                    SUGERENCIAS
PREINVERSION              El proyecto fue explicado a la  Falta de Comunicaci6n y        Mas comunicaci6n e Informaci6n
comunidad                      Coordinaci6n entre la H.Alcaldfa  entre la H. Alcaldia Municipal y la
Municipal y ia Comunidad       Comunidad
La preinvers!6n no tuvo costo para la
comunidad
La Comunidad da contraparte en  Algunos vecinos impedfan el uso de
INVERSION                 efectlvo y en mano de obra     su terreno para que cruce la red
Contraparte hace que la comunidad
se aprople de la obra          Falta de dinero en las H.AM
Falta de desembolsos/iHAht frena
obras y otros desembolsos
DESARROLLO                Comunidad participa en todas las                               Se necesita fortalecer la
COMUNITARIO               etapas                                                         organizaci6n comunal
La comunidad amplia visi6n y busca                             La capacitaci6n debe realizarse
otras para mejorar condiciones de                              antes-durante y despues de la
vida                                                           construcci6n
Las mujeres deben parficipar de la
Las mujeres que par1cipan en el                                capacitaci6n pues ella es la
desarrollo comunitardo                                         responsablew de la salud/hogar.
.______ _  CAPYS estan haciendo seauimiento
LETRINAS                  Las letrinas aboneras dan abono,                               Las H.Alcaldias Municipales deben
ahorran agua, no contaminan y son  Las H. Alcaldias temen involucrarse  prorzar saneamiento basieo =
muv econ6micas                 en proyectos de letrinas        Salud
Participantes Grupo A:
Adriana Montero           Directora Instituto BIBOSI
Isidoro Aivis             Presidente CAPYS-Surutuvia
Nestor Perez              Representante CCM
Jhonny Loayza             Empresa Constructora TARCO
Oscar Lange               Zonal de Seguimiento FIS
Abraham Rojas             Presidente CAPYS el Salao
Norberto Ortega           Operador El Salao
Lucbo Femandez            Operador Clara Serrano
Leonardo Morales          Operador San Luis
- 38 -



Grupo B
COMPONENTE                          PROBLEMAS                            SUGERENCIAS
PREINVERSION            SoHcitud de Proyecto:
Demora en aceptaci6n                 Mejorar procesos y control de Proyectos a
nivel de diseflo
Financiamiento                       Mejorar priorizaci6n de proyectos por parte
del Municiplo
Parametros costo/beneficio muy altos para
las Doblaciones disDersas
LicitacI6n de Proyectos de DIseflo
Falta de participaci6n del Municipio en forma
activa en el desarrollo del disefio
Elaboraci6n del proyecto
Plazos
Estudlos deficientes, incompletos
Seguimiento al proyecto
Simplificar proyectos
Desinformacion de la comunidad
Evaluaci6n deficiente del proyecto
INVERSION                        Recorte del proyacto por falta de contraparte Mayor control y segu)mlento de obras:
del Municipio                        Municiplo, Supervlsi6n, FIS.
Contraparte en Mano de Obra crea demoras Asegurar contrapartes
Asegurar Contrapartes                Coordinar eJecuci6n MUNICIPIO-FIS-
CONTRATISTA
Supervisi6n deficiente
FIS y Municipios deben mejorar el
seguimiento
DESARROLLO COMUNITARIO           Desarrollo Comunitario debe ser prolongado
por mas plazo
Mayor plazo para capacitaci6n despues del
proyecto
Falta de Coordinaci6n entre Obra y
Desarrollo Comunitario
Participantes Grupo B:
Gumercindo Galviz              Presidente CAPYS Villa Flor
Alejandro Rojas                Tesista (Instituto BIBOSI)
Femando Gil                    Zonal de Seguimiento FIS
Javier Sandoval                Empresa Constructora CIGECO
Francklin Rivera               UTIM. (Alcaldia de Saavedra)
Victor Gas6n                   Concejal Municipio Cabezas
- 39-



Grupo C
COMPONENTE                              PROBLEMAS                                   SUGERENCIAS
PREINVERSION                    Parte Burocratica                            Mayor parlicipaci6n de la comunidad
Que se incluya en los proyectos el costo de la mano de
Costo elevado de los proyectos                Obra de los comunarios
La comunidad sea participe de la calidad tecnica del
No responde a la realidad actual             proyecto
Manejo politico en algunas Alcaldias         Ver la viabilidad en hecho ejecutable
Falta de credibilidad (de los pobladores hacia sus
autoadades por incumplimiento de promesas)
Demora del desembolso de Ia contraparte por parte del La presencia del gobiemo local en la ejecuci6n de la
INVERSION                       gobiemo local                                obra
El sobreprecio del proyecto que permite el manejo  Desconocimiento de los proyectos y convenios por
interesado de la licitaci6n                   parte de ia comunidad en la ejecuci6n de la obra
Desconocimiento de los documentos de los proyectos
por parte de la comunidad.
El tempo que separa la etapa de preinversi6n y la
inversi6n
DESARROLLO COMUNITARIO          Falta de informaci6n oportuna a la comunidad  Continuar con desarrollo comunitarlo
Falta de motivacion por parte del Municipio en cuanto a
desanollar los proyectos                      Sistematizar las experiencias, desarrallar y difundirlas
Considerar la creaci6n de Institutos de fofmaci6n
Agropecuara y de Saneamiento Basico
Participantes del grupo C:
Alfredo Franco                  Tesorero Guajoj6
Moises Boigorrea                Operador Guajoj6
Israel Guzman                   T6cnico CCM
Rafael Serrate                  Director Obras Puiblicas-Acaldla de la Guardia
Jorge Elias                     Sectorialista Saneamiento Basico
Armida Nufiez                   Coordinadora Instituto BIBOSI
Erwin Herrera                   Jefe Unidad Tecnica-H. Alcaldia de la Guardia
Baldemar Suarez                 Director Plan Regulador Alcaldia de la Guardia
J. Victor Anagua                Auxiliar del Operador - San Luis
Rodrigo Encinas                 Operador Cosoao
Doroteo Parina
Jose Luis Balcazar              Operador Villa el Carmen
- 40 -



Grupo D
OPINIONES
Particip6 un Comit6 de vigilancia, tom6 parte en la  Capacitaci6n dada por consultores Asociados y
aprobaci6n                                  conformaci6n de CAPYS
PREINVERSION                   Todo el trabajo de preinversi6n ha sido bueno  Conocer algunos resultados para la aprobaci6n de la
comunidad ei: los an/alisis del aqua.
El proyecto fue bien planificado porque era necesario, C6mo se adjudican los proyectos de Preinversi6n. Al
sin embargo, poca participaci6n de la comunidad que  menor precio?
lo ouiere todo hecho
Buena Consulta previa, buen diagn6stico con  Revisi6n del Anteproyecto, antes de la evaluaci6n y
participaci6n de los comunarios con capacitaci6n  aprobaci6n de los proyectos para la inversi6n
previa de los comunaros y presidentes de las OTBs
Capacidad de los Municiplos
INVERSION                      Falta de supervisi6n en la ejecuci6n del proyecto  El proyecto esta en plena ejecuci6n con algunos
retrasos en los desembolsos
Buena inversi6n, buena construcci6n con supervisi6n  Bombas manuales 50 % funcionan, 50% con dificultad,
del ingeniero del Municipio.                botan arena y agua salada (mala ubicaci6n del pozo?,
orofundidad?
Retardo en los desembolsos para la ejecucd6n del  La comunidad ha puesto ia contraparte para la
provecto . Demora conclusi6n de obra        construcci6n
Falta de asignaci6n de recursos para supervisl6n y  Los participantes solicitan el cambio de las bombas por
caDacitacl6n                                una red de distribuci6n
Retardo en obra por demora en desembolsos
Ver la manera que la comunidad pueda participar en la
supervisi6n con una persona capacitada.
DESARROLLO COMUNITARIO         Los operadores y el personal administrativo necesitan  Estan conformados algunos Comites de Vigilancia,
capacitaci6n tecnica                        pero no tienen buena participaci6n. ,Falta
capacitaci6n?, jFalta de incentivos?
Realizaron dos talleres de saneamiento basico de dos La capacitaci6n tanto al inicio, como en el desanollo
dias de duraci6n c/u. No se hizo el de capacitaci6n  del proyecto y en el seguimiento
Dara oDeradores
Hasta ahora el avance del proyecto es bueno y las  Conscientizaci6n previa y capacitaci6n posterior para
obras estan bien ejecutadas. Sin embargo, no se ha  buen manejo del servicdo
solicitado a los pobladores informaci6n respecto a las
fuentes de agua apropiados para la capataci6n.
Se dio capacitaci6n, pero la incredulidad de la gente
impidid mayor participacion
Participantes del Grupo D (Beni y Pando)
Wilber Mapi Mor6n              Operador Prov. Manuripi
Sergio Serrath                Operador San Ram6n (Beni)
Einar Espinoza                Operador San Antonio
Jos6 G6ngora                   Presidente CAPYS San Andres
Dario Melena                  Operador Porvenir (Pando)
Sergio Menacho                 Puerto Rico, Prov. Manuripi
Abel Roja                      Operador Villa Bush
Milton Cruz                   Auxiliar Operador -Villa Rosaro,Pando
Ram6n Arriaza                 Operador de San Ram6n del Mati-Beni
Max Mamani                    Instructor de Operadores - Infocal
Raul Edwin Dominguez          Tecnico Agua Potable (Paurito)
Henry Gutierrez
-41-



Annex   10  -  Comments from Borrower                    MINISTERIO
DE VMVENDA
Y SERVICIOS
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA                                                           BASICOS
La Paz, 13 de febrero de 2002
CITE: MMVSB - VMSB - 16012001
Serior
Alexander Bakalian
Oficial de Proyecto
Banco Mundial
Presente.-
Ref.: Borrador de Informe Final del Proyecto PROSABAR
De mi mayor consideraci6n:
Atendiendo su solicitud, relacionada con el documento de referencia, adjunto encontrara
usted los comentarios sobre la ejecuci6n, los logros y las lecciones aprendidas en el
proyecto PROSABAR.
En t6rmnnos generales, consideramos que el documento presentado por ustedes refleja
de la manera mas objetiva la evoluci6n y resultados del proyecto en las diferentes fases
del mismo. En este sentido, reitero a usted las felicitaciones y agradecimientos por el
permanente apoyo al proyecto y por la conclusi6n satisfactoria del mismo.
Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle las seguridades de mi consideraci6n distinguida.
A   M.         Urquidi Barrau
VICEMINISTRO DE SERVICIOS BASiCOS
MINSTERIO DE VIVIENDA Y SERVICIOS BASICOS
cc Arch
Adj. Io indicado
ACG
Av. 20 de Octubre 2230 3 piso
'clf. 372252 * Fax: 369375 . CasiHla 13820
La Paz - Bolivia



_     -. MINISTERIO
DE VIVIENDA
,; Y SERVICIOS
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA                                                       BASICOS
COMENTARIOS
INFORME BORRADOR FINAL PROYECTO PROSABAR
Ejecucion del Proyecto
No obstante la complejidad del Programa, con varios actores e instituciones a diferente
nivel, se han cumplido en porcentajes altamente satisfactorios, las metas fisicas y
financieras, definidas en diciembre del ano 1998, en ocasi6n de la revisi6n de medio
termino del Programa. Consideramos que esto ha sido posible gracias al seguimiento
sistematico y oportuno del Banco, el alto grado de compromiso de las instituciones
involucradas en el proyecto, la participaci6n de la comunidad y al marco institucional
vigente a partir del ano 1997, con la creaci6n del Viceministerio de Vivienda y Servicios
Basicos, que permiti6 relanzar el proyecto que se encontraba por esa fecha calificado
como insatisfactorio por el Banco Mundial. Todos estos aspectos que se reflejan en el
documento borrador del Doc. del Banco Mundial, sin embargo sugerimos precisar los
siguientes puntos:
En la pagina 4, Objetivo Especifico 2, del documento, si bien se generaliza un desempeno
parcialmente satisfactorio de las Prefecturas, consideramos que se debe destacar el
hecho de que el comportamiento ha sido variable en el tiempo, tanto en personal como en
recursos de apoyo logistico. Esta falta de apoyo mas sostenido, se debe, probablemente,
de que con la Ley de Participaci6n Popular, y la Ley de Descentralizaci6n Administrativa,
las prefecturas dejan de tener competencia en la prestaci6n de los Servicios Basicos,
tema que se esta planteando como una discusi6n a nivel de politicas nacionales.
En la pagina 5, Objetivo Especifico 4, sugerimos incluir la elaboraci6n del Plan Estrat6gict
de Saneamiento Basico 2001 - 2010, como un documento de estrategia sectoral para el
desarrollo del Sector
En la pagina 6, Project Management, aclarar que hubo un solo Coordinador del Proyecto
a partir de mediados del anio 1998 (Agosto, con el nombramiento del Ing. Marco Quiroga),
lo que significa que en los ultimos tres anos no se realiz6 ningun cambio, lo cual
contribuyo al exito del Programa. Este aspecto fue favorecido con la creaci6n del
Viceministerio de Servicios Basicos (Septiembre de 1997), que permiti6 una mayor
institucionalidad en la cabeza del Sector lo que repercuti6 en el Programa.
En la pagina 7, en el penultimo parrafo, se debe incluir las iniciativas del alcantarillado
condominial y la implementacion de los sistemas de tratamiento de agua potable FiME
(filtraci6n en multiples etapas), con la transferencia de tecnologia a traves del CINARA de
Cali, Colombia. Esta experiencia sera replicada a traves del PROAGUAS.
En la pagina 8, politicas sectoriales, se debe comentar el hecho de que las metodologias
y estrategias de intervenci6n del PROSABAR, particularmente la participaci6n
comunitaria, fueron traducidas en politicas sectoriales y aplicadas en proyectos de BID
Av. 20 de Octubre 2230 3 piso
Telf. 372252 * Fax: 369375 * Casilla 13820
La Paz - Bolivia



- MINISTERIO
__                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DE Vl\/IENDA
'w Ns                                                      -        Y SERVICIOS
REPUBLICA DE BOLIVIA                                                       1ASICOS
(PROAGUAS), Uni6n Europea ( PRASBENI) y JICA (Jap6n). Dentro de la Politica
Nacional de Compensacion el Sector ha establecido como un requisito de ejecuci6n de
proyectos el componente de desarrollo comunitano.
En la pagina 10, Impacto del Desarrollo Institucional, sugerimos incluir los beneficios del
proyecto desde el punto de vista de formaci6n de recursos humanos, tanto a nivel local,
por ejemplo mas de 1800 operadores comunales capacitados,  como institucional,
capacitados, publicos y prvados, para desarrollar proyectos y programas sostenibles de
servicios basicos en areas rurales.
En la pagina 11, penultimo parrafo, sustituir el ario 1999 por el ano 1998 y el periodo 1998
- 1999, por 1997 - 1998.
En la pagina 18, en el tercer parrafo, sugerimos incluir la recomendaci6n de en
comunidades dispersas y alejadas, se deben redoblar la intervenci6n en desarrollo
comunitario y establecer incentivos para generar demanda simultanea en agua y
saneamiento, a fin de optimizar recursos, generando economias de escala, y tener mayor
impacto social.
Av. 20 de Octubre 2230 3 piso
Telf. 372252 - Fax: 369375 * Casilla 13820
La Paz - Bolivia



Annex 11     -    Comments from Co-Financier (OPEC Fund)
The Opec Futnd for Interneational Development
Fa,x No. (If5139238                       q
Message No.:     .....
Telefax No.:         202676 1IZI
No. of pags, imcl. ti-S slelet:     4
DaExte:              Febtiary 5, 2002
To:    Mr. Alex Bakalian
Water Supply Specialirt and Task Manager
World Dank
La Paz.
Bolivia
Subject:      Boliviu: aiurgl Water ad SunItats0QiRsA
(91PEC Vuud LQ5WN%1541t)
Dear Mr. Bakalian,
We acknowledgo witll thanks roccipt of your fax dated Fthruaiy 1, 2002 and thc attachel
draft complation report for thf Iiural Water and Sanitation Proijct.
We havc noted withi intcrtst thc flank's corrrnonts on ihe projot's achievemefnts anti
oUtpllts ancd.n mnjor factors affoctigingiplemontation and very valuiblc thc vieWs o0 tho
poje,ct susthinabilily. We are happy to see tlat at th oclosilig ofthe projct some 330,000
people had:c.roceived watcr service anid about 100,000 people had access to sanitary
facilities.
Wre arc pleasee to be assciatt witLh IDA.iln this ploject ilolivia and appreciate. all tlc
iiasistaixce. that over the y6ars tDA ham: provided to us. We rea tliat thia assistancC on the
projcct, iaslot cnded yet. Our lohstn lan unutilized balance of US$ 707,296.57  hlic
project i9s i noed of1thoSO reGo0rCOS aLd wo ar-o willinig to provido these. For lhis pullrpose,
the projeczltlas still to follow-up oxi the Iltuid's procelures for disbursermnts, DS
If yoO' do not rc:ceivc Lriy page, ox' if tny pao;e ia ilep,ible. please phonthe
lC_P,C FundL (1151564 / 58 ai4o qthote the nbove rnienage mubcrb_r.



The Opec Fund eor lbrternatiOnal
Develoment
Feax No. ({) 513 92 3B
comunicat to tbc project's authoriti1e in ou fin x  brud Fcmyry 1, 2002. A Oopy of it
i6 being sent to you for duo attention.
Best sr,EL
Sonior Oprations Officer
Operationr ManagemGnt
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 27093
68'               66'                64'               62'               60O'                 1 0
-10,                         v                                            B O     L I V  I A
B R A Z I L                                                        RURAL WATER AND
Ak sS,5 \                            SANITATION PROJECT
,        )/  4 ,                                  POPULATION BY DEPARTMENT:
\. Covi ja PA N DO~                    or- X ' 1,500,001 to 2,000,000
\ ~  .'cs '  %   1  t3,,                           1         1,000,001 to 1,500,000    12'
-12'   \          9        ls       ,.     \                              |     1  500,001 to 1,000,000
1 00,00 1 to 500,000
\ D            Z0Z|lll    0r I            *    '&e                LIZ-     O to 100,000
0   50 100 150 200 250
L.                         L Rogoguodo    )       ,                                     I KILOMETERS
0-.-1 Rogo B      ' E     N      I                                      - ,n E  qes, colors 1
L       2     L Rogcg ra ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~-~~  W ~L~' Sr)%;                         .-;. onodony   1 4'
-1 4- o s - < 0  -  { 1            \      ' ) 1.-  .  :s., ;s m-tion how-n
1 4                                                       -                                      j.vo d.nni
/                     ,               ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.   ~~~~~~~he port- of
Trinidad  -  (                                -. .; . ;ny it eoIy
-~~~         i      I         'sty territory,~~~~~~~~~a'
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                          - Jorse-ment ! 
T ji~c                               -I- --             L.o           sZ           !   BRAZIL             16R Z
1Titic                                                       5;        _- 
/                N~P  
CqFi4AMBA         .o-ChoP  '    k,  -s   A  N  T A
I CoLba ambao
|  -.-_   \  1    ,          O-         |>Son tl~~~~~~~~~~~~ Cruz                      5-
rA                                8 u                               C R U Z
li    ORUlRO rur 
-   oposo RURSucre                                                                        / 
)>CopsctP, .         Potosi               i
C:-
Q  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-20                   U2uni
S t    S=t Pmonf              ~    -   >
>    ,.--Ps >TO S, -I <                                |PARAGUAY
:,-         T 0 S           r<J8--                    
 TA R IJ A        I /_                605_                 i
- 2 2                                                 /         - n. . )  , '  '~<  ' it   \!  22'  -  .Po'- V. hB
C  H  I L E    X       ,,                  j z                           PERU J                  R AZIL
6,8              ,66'dd ,d
DEPARTMENT  POPULATION   RURAL COVERAGE I%I  A R G E N T I N A                    Ar.n P  w
TOTAL  RURAL WATER SANITATION                                            A    L-
Chussquisaca  453,756  147,401  1 8.15 I   7 47                                       A,,:  i        _
La Paz    1,900,786 1,193,821  23 69  1509                                      Pacific            * 
Cochaba6ba 1,110,205  580,188 26.08  21 81   *      NATIONAL CAPITAL                       \ ,,-
Potasi     645,889  21 6,835 21 67  7~2            DPRMNCAILS             24'   Oceo,  HLl        \PROA
Orro      340,114  222,3018 2335  6                DEPARTMENT CAPITALS 16-                       \,PARAGUAY
Tarija     291,407  1 59,438  25.4  1916   --       D EPARTME NT BOUNDARI ES 
Beni       276,174  182,748  3.98  41.25                                                     ,sl        (Pt
Santa Cruz  1,364,389  982,396 33.65  37.25        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                2 d- ""-.-,,
Pando      38,072   10,001  5 92  33.27                                                      ARGENTINA 
TOTAL:    6,420,792 3,694,846 23.82  17.48          64                 62'                              X-NE 1995
JUNE 1 995



