Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 24158
PER]FORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
BOLIVIA
SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
(WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION COMPONENTS ONLY)
(CREDIT 2532-BO)
RURAL, WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2806-BO)
May 13, 2002
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (Effective September 2, 2001)
Currency Unit: Boliviano (B)
B I =US$0.15
US$1 = B 6.70
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAPYS         Comite de Agua Potable y Saneamiento (Community water supply operating
committee)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DINASBA       National Directorate of Water Supply and Sanitation
DUF           Directorio Unico de Fondos (Unified Directory of Funds)
ERR           Economic rate of return
ESF           Emergency Social Fund
FIS           Fondo de Inversi6n Social
FPS           Fondo de Inversi6n Productiva y Social
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GNP           Gross National Product
GOB           Govemment of Bolivia
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
NFRD          National Fund for Regional Development
NGO           Nongovemmental organization
OED           Operations Evaluation Department
OP            Operational Policy (of the World Bank)
OPEC Fund     Fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPL           Popular Participation Law
PROSABAR      Programa de Saneamiento Basico Rural
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (of the World Bank)
SISAB         Superintendencia de Saneamiento Basico
UNASBVI       Unidad de Saneamiento Basico y Vivienda
UTIM          Unidad Tecnica Intema Municipal
Fiscal Year
Govemment of Bolivia: January 1-December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation         : Mr. Robert Picciotto
Director, Operations Evaluation Department      : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation         : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                    . Mr. Klas Ringskog



Tables
Table 1. Water Supply and Sanitation Performance Indicators for Selected Sub-Projects of FIS II
and RWSP ..................................................................3
Table 2. Investment Cost Efficiency of FIS II (Credit 2532-BO) and RWSP (Credit 2806-BO) ... 4
Table 3. Per Capita Investrrent Costs for Rural Water Supplies and Sanitation ............. ................5
Table 4. Sustainability Ratings of Sample of 25 Visited Water Supply and Sanitation Systems .... 8
Table 5. BOLIVIA - Project Implementation Arrangements in the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector, 1995-2001 .................................................................  10



Principal Ratings
Social Investment Fund 11 (Credit 2532-  Outcome   Sustainability  Institutional  Bank       Borrower
BO) (Water supply component only)                                Development   Performance   Performance
ICR                                Satisfactory  Highly Likely  Substantial  Satisfactory  Satisfactory
Audit                              Satisfactory  Likely        Modest        Satisfactory   Satisfactory
Rural Water and Sanitation Project   Outcome       Sustainability  Institutional  Bank       Borrower
(Credit 2806-BO)                                                 Development   Perfornance   Performance
ICR                                Satisfactory  Likely        Substantial   Satisfactory   Satisfactory
Audit                              Satisfactory  Likely        Substantial    Satisfactory  Satisfactory
Key Staff Responsible
Social Investment Fund 11 (Credit 2532-  Task Manager        Division Chief      Country Director
BO)
Appraisal                          Kanella Vasiliades      Jacques van der     Yoshiaki Abe
Gaag
Completion                         John Lincoln Newman     Xavier Coll        Isabel Guerrero
Rural Water and Sanitation Project   Task Manager            Division Chief      Country Director
(Credit 2806-BO)
Appraisal                          Abel Mejia               Eugene McCarthy    Paul Isenman
Completion                         Alexander Bakalian      Danny Leipziger     Isabel Guerrero



v
Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers the water supply and
sanitation components of the Social Investment Fund II (Credit 2532-BO), which financed
(alongside investments in education and health) the construction of water supply and sanitation in
rural communities in Bolivia; and the Rural Water and Sanitation Project (Credit 2806-BO),
which financed water supply, sanitation, community development, and health education
benefiting villages and semi-dlispersed rural populations. The PPAR has focused exclusively on
the water supply, sanitation, and health education aspects of the two projects to allow cross-
sectoral lessons to be drawn with regard to the World Bank assistance strategy in the rural water
supply and sanitation sector. The efficiency, efficacy, sustainability, and institutional
development impact of the investments of the two projects were the main focus of the analysis in
order to allow comparisons of the performance of rural water supply and sanitation works
financed under two lending modes: social investment funds and dedicated rural water supply and
sanitation projects where the project implementing agency would usually be a line ministry or a
technical agency specializing in rural water supply and sanitation projects. The assessment of the
two projects is particularly relevant because the two projects were executed approximately during
the same period in Bolivia, where the concept of social investment funds was pioneered.
Initially, the two projects were quite different since the Social Investment Fund [I focused
on quickly building systems whereas the Rural Water and Sanitation Project devoted substantial
resources to community development and training before having the systems constructed.
However, over time the two projects became quite similar since doubts over the sustainability of
the Social Investment Fund approach made it necessary to retrofit already built systems with
additional resources spent on eommunity development and training of villagers. At the same time,
the Rural Water and Sanitation Project capitalized on the proven implementation record of the
Social Investment Fund agency by having the systems it financed constructed by the Social
Investment Fund. The lessons from the assessment have also been reflected in OED's larger
evaluation of social investment funds ("Social Funds: A Review of World Bank Experience,"
Operations Evaluation Department, Draft, October 3, 2001, Washington D.C.: The World Bank).
Credit 2532-BO, in the amount of US$40.0 million equivalent, was approved on June 29,
1993, became effective on April 26, 1994, and closed on December 31, 1998, one year after the
original closing date of December 31, 1997. About 30 percent of the investments, or
approximately US$47 million,, disbursed under the Social Investment Fund II financed water
supply and sanitation works.
Credit 2806-BO, in the amount of US$20.0 million equivalent was approved on January
16, 1996, became effective on October 21, 1996, and closed on June 30, 2001, six montlhs after
the original closing date of December 31, 2000. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed.
The PPAR is based on Staff Appraisal Reports, Implementation Completion Reports,
credit agreements, project documents, and discussions with Bank staff. In addition, an Operations
Evaluation Department mission visited Bolivia in August/September 2001 for discussions with
borrowers, project executing agencies, and direct beneficiaries of the loans.
Following customary procedures, copies of the draft PAR were sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for review and comments. No comments were received.






1.     Introduction
1.     The assessment of the two projects with major water supply and sanitation components
rates project performance based on OED's five evaluation criteria: outcome, institutional
development impact (IDI), sustainability, Bank performance, and borrower performance. (For
definitions see the explanatory note at the front of this report.) In turn, the project outcome rating
is the composite of the ratings of project relevance, efficacy, and efficiency.
Country and Sector Background
2.     Bolivia is a large coumtry with about 1.1 million square kilometers. Its population was
estimated in the year 2000 at 8.2 million, growing at 1.9 percent per annum. In the same year, the
urban and rural shares of the population were 63 percent and 37 percent, respectively. A national
census conducted in early September 2001 may confirm whether the rural population may have
started falling, not only relative to the urban population but also in absolute terms. According to
the 1992 census, about 81 percent of the urban population was estimated to be connected to
potable water, and 63 percent had a sanitation system. The corresponding connection rate in rural
areas was 24 percent for watcr and 17 percent for sanitation. A gradually rising coverage of water
supply and sanitation services helps explain the sharp reduction in infant mortality from 158 per
thousand live births in 1977 lo 60 in 1998. Over the same period, child (under five years of age)
mortality dropped from 170 per thousand to 78 per thousand live births. Per capita GNP reached
US$1,010 in 1998 but may subsequently have stagnated in the face of an economic downturn that
reached Bolivia in 1999. Adult illiteracy was estimated at about 22 percent in 1998.
3.     Bolivia undertook far-reaching administrative reforms in the 1990s to devolve more
authority and resources to its 314 municipalities. The Popular Participation of 1994 created
Organizaciones Territoriales de Base (OTBs), the smallest type of local government and the
building blocks for the larger municipalities. The 1997 Law on the Organization of the Executive
Power (LOPE) created the Ministry of Housing and Basic Services (Ministerio de Vivienda y
Servicios Bdsicos, MVSB) to be responsible for setting policies and fixing norms in the water
supply and sanitation sector and supervising their implementation by the municipalities. The
duties of the MVSB at the nalional level are discharged by the Vice-Minister of Basic Services
and a special program unit, Programa de Servicios Basicos Rural, was created to supervise the
correct implementation of the Vice-Ministry's policies in the rural sector. In addition,
UNASBVIs (Unidades de Seivicios Bdsicosy Vivienda) in each of Bolivia's nine departments
monitor the municipalities' application of norms and policies in the sector. SISAB, the regulatory
agency for the water supply and sanitation sector, is responsible for regulating the service quality,
both in urban and rural areas.
4.     The actual execution of water supply and sanitation investments has been with the Social
Investment Fund (FIS). Its precursor, the Emergency Social Fund (ESF) was created in 1986 to
implement programs to provide public employment as a response to the economic recession
during the 1980s. Quite recenlly the FIS was restructured and renamed the Fondo de Inversi6n
Productiva y Social (FPS) and. made the conduit of grant investment financing in benefit of the
municipalities. Its prime field of action is intended to be all communities with fewer than 5,000
inhabitants. Its parallel for loan financing in communities with more than 10,000 inhabitants is
the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Regional (FNDR). Furthermore, in order to make investment
financing more transparent a D)irectorio Unico de Fondos (DUF) was created to coordinate, fix
norms and policies, and supervise the financing that will flow through FPS and FNDR to the
country's municipalities. The creation of the DUF represents the latest step in the devolvement of
resources and decision-making to the municipalities, which will be the ones to select their type of



2
investments and then bid and/or execute those investments. The corresponding financial resources
will originate both from the central budget, part of which will be freed by the reduction in debt
service under the HIPC program.
Project Objectives and Components
5.     The objectives of the Social Investment Fund II (Loan 2532-BO) were to:
*      Assist the govermment to improve coverage and quality of basic services in the health,
education, water supply, and sanitation services.
*      Provide institutional strengthening support to the FIS institution itself to improve the
quality of its operations by, inter alia, better targeting the poor, improving the
supervision of its subprojects, reducing the time in subproject processing, and
strengthening its financial capabilities.
6.     The general objectives of the Rural Water and Sanitation Project (Loan 2806-BO)
were to alleviate poverty in rural areas by enhancing productivity through improved health
conditions and a more efficient use of the time saved collecting water. Its specific objectives
included:
*      Increasing the sustainable use of water and sanitation services in rural communities and
municipalities
*      Assisting the local water and sanitation units in developing the capacity to provide
technical assistance to municipal governments and local communities
*      Supporting the sustainability of water and sanitation services through extensive training
of community-level operators and administrators
*      Strengthening the capacity of the Direcci6n Nacional de Servicios Basicos (DINASBA)
within the Ministry of Housing and Basic Services to formulate policies, prepare
technical standards, and mobilize financial resources.
2.     Outcome
7.     Project outcome is a composite of the project's relevance, efficacy, and efficiency.
Relevance
8.     Relevance measures how well the project was aligned with the current development goals
of the government and with the Bank's current assistance strategy to the country. By that token,
OED rates the relevance of the FIS H project as "substantial" and of the Rural Water and
Sanitation Project (RWSP) as "high". Both supported the effort to alleviate poverty through
the provision of basic water supply and sanitation services, something that had been a leitmotif of
Bolivian government policy since the launch of the Emergency Social Fund in 1986. Both the FIS
n and RWSP financed water supply and sanitation for both village and semi-dispersed
populations in rural areas where it is estimated that 79 percent live below the official poverty line.
However, it is justified to rate the relevance of the RWSP higher than the Social Development
Fund II since RWSP focused more on ensuring sustainable infrastructure which was indeed one
of its specific project objective. The difference between the two projects in poverty targeting is
slight although the RWSP funded works in smaller communities and for the benefit of more
dispersed rural population. The median size of the 23 communities that received water supply



3
and/or sanitation investment financing under the FIS II project was 300 inhabitants versus 200
inhabitants under RWSP. Assuming that average poverty is inversely related to population size
the difference in community size would indicate a slightly sharper poverty focus of the RWSP
investments. In terms of supporting the administrative decentralization away from central line
ministries and agencies, FIS II performed slightly worse than RWSP initially since it did not
focus as much on community development and supporting the municipalities and communities in
creating the local capacity to plan, implement, and operate the constructed water supply and
sanitation systems. However, after the initial 23 water supply and sanitation systems financed by
FIS II had been completed, the PROSABARIRWSP methodology of extensive community
development was applied to these 23 systems as well in order to improve the chances for
sustainability. The retrofit blurred the distinction ex-post between the development thinking of
the two projects. At the same time, the retrofit validated the correctness of the RWSP greater
emphasis on community development and training.
Efficacy
9.     The efficacy rating of the two projects will depend on their degree in (i) improving the
coverage and quality of basic: services in the health, education, water supply, and sanitation
services in the rural communities (FIS II), and (ii) increasing the sustainable use of water and
sanitation services in rural crnmmunities and municipalities the supply and continuity of water
(RWSP). The total number of water supply and/or sanitation subprojects financed by FIS II was
23 and those financed by RWrSP were 584. A total of 5 FIS II subprojects and 20 RWSP
subprojects were visited ( without informing the communities in advance of the visits in order to
gain a more realistic assessment of the performance of the individual systems) and Table 1
summarizes the efficacy findings related to achieving the coverage and quality objectives:
Table 1. Water Supply and Sanitation Performance Indicators for Selected Subprojects of
FIS II and RWSP
Indicator                       Before FIS II  After FIS n  Before RWSP  After RWSP
Share of households connected to Mater  0%      100%          0%           100%
Share of households with latrines  0%           45%           0%           60%
Share of households with continuoun  0%         100%          0%           98%
water service
Share of households with water with  0%.         0%           0%.           0%
residual chlorine
10.    OED rates the efficacy of both the FIS II project and of the Rural Water and
Sanitation Project (RWSP) "substantial." The major accomplishment of both projects is
achieving practically complele coverage of the community households with continuous water.
The major shortcoming of achieving the objectives of improved coverage and quality of service is
the failure to raise the share of households with latrines to match the progress in providing safe
water. The lagging latrine levels cause some concern since studies elsewhere' point to the lack of
sanitation as explaining the spread of disease, both through contaminating water sources and
through direct contact. The quoted Andhra Pradesh study also concluded that communities had to
attain service levels of at least 60 percent for both water supply and sanitation in order to break
the transmission of water and sanitation-related disease within entire communities. By that token,
the RWSP project performed better than FIS II since it achieved higher latrine coverage and
provided health education from the start. A second, but less significant, shortcoming of both the
1. "Andhra Pradesh, India-Water, Household Environment and Health," World Bank. October, 2000



4
FIS II and the RWSP is the absence of chlorinated water. In practice, in the 25 communities
visited the risk of bacteriological contamination was quite low since the sources selected were
well protected and of good quality, which held true for both gravity and pumped supplies.
Reported maintenance included quarterly disinfecting and scrubbing of the water storage tanks.
Efficiency
11.     Water supply and sanitation projects in general-and in particular those in rural areas
where monetary income may be very low-do not score well in economic cost-benefit analysis.
They may save lives-particularly those of children below the age of five-and they may reduce
morbidity, but the quantifiable savings are often below the costs of the projects. In contrast, cost
efficiency could be analyzed, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Investment Cost Efficiency of FIS II and RWSP
RS Hl                RWSP
Indicator/Year                                               1995-1997            1997-2001
Implementaffon       implementa0on
Number of water supply systems financed by each respective credit  23                584
Average per capita Investment cost of completed projects under  87                   102
each credit, in current US$
Average per capita investment cost of completed projects under  95                   106
each credit, in constant US$ of the year 2000
Median community size under each credit, inhabitants            300                  200
Average per capita Investment cost of completed projects under
each credit, In constant US$ of the year 2000, adjusted for the
different median population size, chosen as 200. Total investment
costs (for systems with roughly similar technical design and    116                  106
construction standards) Increase roughly In proporton to the square
root of the population. This means that the average per capita
investment cost decreases In proportion to the square root of the
populaton.)
12.     The table shows the latest data for fully completed water supply projects under FIS II and
RWSP. The data have been adjusted for the evolution in the consumer price index of the U.S.
dollar and for the fact that RWSP on average included smaller and more scattered communities
than FIS II. The average investment cost under each project is quite comparable with the FIS H
subprojects providing potable water through house or yard connections at a per capita cost of
US$116 whereas the RWSP managed to provide the same level of service at a slightly lower cost,
or US$106 per capita. The difference could be explained by the fact that RWSP subprojects
invested more in community development which, among other things, required contributions both
in cash (at 5 percent of the direct investment cost) and in kind (at 15 percent of the direct
investment cost) from benefiting households. Although there seems to have been some slippage
from the contractual community contributions toward investments the RWSP requirements of
upfront community contributions could certainly explain the entire difference in adjusted per
capita investment costs between the two projects. A reason for the strilingly similar per capita
investment costs is the fact that RWSP used FIS as a project implementation agency. After the
initial selection of subprojects and their design the subprojects were executed by the FIS.
13.    It should be noted that the calculated investment costs are quite normal and within the
expected range of those for Latin American countries. The wealth of data produced by the
PROSABAR unit indicates that gravity systems were the first choice (71 percent of systems) but
that pumped groundwater systems were also built (21 percent of systems) where gravity systems
were not feasible or were excessively expensive. Handpumps were rare (6 percent of systems)



5
and solar pumps even more so (2 percent of systems). House or yard connections were the service
level preferred by the communities in 84 percent of the systems. The choice is surely justified
given the higher convenience and health benefits and the higher motivation of beneficiaries to pay
fees to defray operations and maintenance costs. Table 3 provides indications of per capita
investment costs for differertt types of service. As expected, gravity systems are more expensive
than pumped systems, but th e cost premium is easily compensated by the lower operations and
maintenance costs.
Table 3. Per Capita Investment Costs for Rural Water Supplies and Sanitation
Gravity systems  Electrically driven  Handpump systems  Solarpump      Latrines
pump systems                        systems
US$108                US$98           US$69            US$158           US$12
14.    Based on the above, OED rates the efficacy of both the FIS II project and of the
Rural Water and Sanitation Project (RWSP) "substantial." Their cost efficiency is within
industry standards for comparable levels of service and their choice of service levels respond well
to the demands of the populations and would favor the sustainability of systems.
Overall Outcome
15.   In summary, OED rates the outcome of both the FIS I water supply and sanitation
components and the RWSP projects "satisfactory" since the FIS Il project combined "substantial"
relevance, efficacy and efficiency and the RWSP project "high" relevance with "substantial"
efficacy and efficiency.
3.     Institutional Development Impact
16.    The institutional development impact (IDI) of the two water supply and sanitation
components of FIS II and of the RWSP can conveniently be analyzed at two levels:
*      That of central, regional, and local govemments in charge of setting policies and
regulations in the area of rural water supply and sanitation, including that of the project
implementing agencies themselves, FIS and the PROSABAR (housed within the Vice-
Ministry of Housing and Basic Services
*      That of the rural communities, in charge of operating and maintaining the systems as well
as benefiting from them.
II)I at the Central, Regional, and Local Government Levels
17.    The FIS H and the RWSP projects were both conceived and implemented within the
general context of a steadily increasing shift of responsibilities away from the central government
in favor of the local government, that is, the municipalities as far as investment selection and
increasingly investment implementation are concerned. The project objectives did include
"providing institutional strengthening support to the FIS institution itself to improve the quality of
its operations by, inter alia, better targeting the poor, improving the supervision of its subprojects,
reducing the time in subproject processing and strengthening its financial capabilities " for FIS II
and "assisting the local wate r and sanitation units in developing the capacity to provide technical
assistance to municipal governments and local communities" for RWSP and "strengthening the



6
capacity of the Direcci6n Nacional de Servicios Bdsicos (DINASBA) within the Ministry of
Housing and Basic Services to formulate policies, prepare technical standards, and mobilize
financial resources" for RWSP as well. For Bolivia's rural water supply and sanitation sector
institutions the RWSP objectives were obviously more pertinent whereas the FIS II objective of
strengthening itself was not of the same concern. The entire water supply and sanitation sector
had been floundering up until 1991, which is when the government ended its direct involvement
in building and operating systems and instead began building up a capacity at the central level to
set and supervise policies and norms in the sector.
18.   The limited IDI-related objectives at the central level were reached for FIS II. The
institutional strength of FIS II undoubtedly increased through its administrative costs and
investments in assets, which more than doubled from an annual level of about US$2.5 million to
more than US$5 million. The dynamism of FIS as an institution actually raised concerns that its
administrative costs were rising unduly. There might be some truth to this since its administrative
costs increased from 13 percent to 18 percent of the annual project investments it implemented.
However, FIS did provide the rural water supply and sanitation sector with proven project
execution capacity, a not insignificant advantage.
19.   The IDI under the RWSP was greater and highly significant for the progress of the rural
water supply and sanitation sector. The policy and norm setting vacuum at the central
government level that had existed before 1991 was filled by the Vice-Ministry of Basic Services
and was backed up by the PROSABAR project management unit located within the Vice-
Ministry. At the regional government level the same functions of setting and supervising the
application of norms and programs were vested in the UNASBVIs, the departmental water and
sanitation units located in each of Bolivia's nine provincial capitals. Some of the UNASBVIs
were of high caliber. Unfortunately, their future role in the sector is now unclear. With the
conclusion of RWSP (Credit 2806-BO) they now run the risk of losing their budgetary allocations
and early indications from some of the UNASBVIs visited are that they may disband. If so the
rural water supply and sanitation sector may lose many trained staff and a ready source of
technical assistance for local communities. At the local government level, or at the some 315
municipalities the IDI is less clear. The great majority of these seem to lack the financial and
human resources that will be necessary if they are to assume the task of selecting, preparing, and
implementing investments not only in the rural water supply and sanitation sector, but also in any
sector. Symptomatically, there is little evidence of functioning municipal UTIMs (Unidades
Tecnicas Internas Municipales) that could provide technical and operational assistance to the
local communities in the operations and maintenance of their water supply and sanitation
systems.
[DI at the Rural Community Level
20.    For small water supply and sanitation systems the most needed IDI concerns the
institutional arrangements at the community level itself. Here there was an initial difference
between FIS II and RWSP. The early FIS HI subprojects were constructed with insufficient
attention to community development and the establishment of a locally anchored organization
that could guarantee the sustainability of operations and maintenance. Later RWSP became
effectively implemented under the elaborate PROSABAR methodology, which invested in
community development and training at a rate of about 10 percent of the rate of project
disbursements. The sustainability of the early FIS II was then becoming a question mark. The
decision was then taken to retrofit the early FIS It projects with community development and
training of the scale of PROSABAR in order to increase the chances for sustainability. All
subprojects, financed by RWSP but for which FIS was the project implementation agent, were
preceded and accompanied from the start with community development and training following



7
the PROSABAR paradigrm. This consisted of creating community water supply operating
committees (Comites de Agua Potabley Saneamiento, CAPYS). These have worked well and
operate on an "ad honorern" or remunerated basis but always drawing its members fi om the
community itself. All the CAPYS visited during the PPAR field visits appeared to be sustainable
and had successfully managed the annual turnover of key members.
21.   In summary, OEID rates the institutional development impact of the RWSP
"substantial," because of the DI at the community level and the establishment of the
PROSABAR at the central and regional levels. OED rates the IDI of the FISH as "modest"
because of its focus on the institutional capacity of the FIS agency itself rather than also focusing
on broader water institutional issues in the country and because of the failure at the onset of the
program to stress community development which would have supported its sustainability.
Fortunately, IDI of the Social Investment Fund II at the community level improved due to the
retrofit although it had not been a major emphasis at the planning and implementation stages.
4.     Sustainability
22.    Sustainability is the key to rural water supply and sanitation systems. Because of its
critical importance, the PPAR paid particular attention to evaluating and rating the sustainability
of the two water supply and sanitation components under FIS II and RWSP using OED's standard
definitions. A total of 25 systems were visited, five of which were financed under FIS II
(comprising about 22 percent of all FIS II water supply subprojects) and 20 of which were
financed under RWSP (comnprising between 3 and 4 percent of all RWSP subprojects).
Subprojects were sampled from four of Bolivia's nine provinces to represent a variety of climes,
hydrological conditions, and socioeconomic conditions. The sustainability was rated for each
system based on the observed coverage and quality of service, the quality of the operations and
maintenance, the existence of a competent and stable community-based operating committee, and
the effective collections of a tariff to pay for operations and maintenance, including in some
instances replacement of key system components. The individual sustainability ratings are shown
in Table 4. The sustainabil:ity of 23 (92 percent) was rated "likely" and only two (8 percent) were
rated "uncertain." There was no significant difference between FIS II and RWSP-financed
projects, which might be explained partly by the retrofit of the early FIS II projects using the
PROSABAR community development methodology.
23.    On the basis of the "likely" sustainability ratings of 92 percent of visited individual water
supply and sanitation syste:ms, OED rates the sustainability of both the FIS-financed water
supply and sanitation comiponents and the RWSP "likely."



8
Table 4. Sustainability Ratings of Sample of 25 Visited Water Supply and Sanitation Systems
Community and Completion Year          Connection   Service, 24   Water     Latrines      System         Tarlffffamily/      Quality of     Sutainbilty
Rate (%)     hours (%)    Quality     (0/6)      operatfons         month              O&M           usina
Chovacollo, La Paz, 1999                  100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 2         Deficient inflltration  Likely
Chijpaya, La Paz, 2001                     95           95         Good        0           CAPYS             B 3        Unbalanced distribution  Uncertain
Pankarani, La Paz, 1999                   100          100         Good       N.A.         CAPYS             N.A.            Acceptable         Ukely
San Francisco, La Paz, 1999                95           95         Poor         0          CAPYS             B 3         Deficient infiltration  Uncertain
Eucaliptus, Oruro, 1993, FIS Il           100          100         Good        0         Municipality        B 2         Acceptable, poor M    Ukely
Ancotanga, Oruro, 2000                    100          100         Good        0           CAPYS             B 6               Good            Ukely
Sillota Belen, Oruro, 2000                100          100         Good        25          CAPYS             B 5               Good            Likely
Saavedra, Santa Cruz, 2000                 0            0          Poor        100       Community           B 0          Ecological latrines  Likely
Villa El Carmen, Santa Cruz, 2000         100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 15              Good            Ukely
Guajojo-Sta Rosita, Santa Cruz, 2000      100          100         Good        25          CAPYS             B 20              Good            Ukely
Las Gamas, Santa Cruz, 1993, FIS II       100          100         Good        25          CAPYS             N.A.              Good            Ukely
Surutuvia, Santa Cruz, 2000               100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 20              Good            Likely
Sombrerito, Santa Cruz, 2000              100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 23              Good            Ukely
Unde Oeste, Cochabamba, 1999              100          100         Good        100         CAPYS          Volumetric           Good            Likely
Linde Este, Cochabamba, 1999              100          100         Good       100          CAPYS          Volumetric           Good            Ukely
Cruzani, Cochabamba, 1999                 100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 5               Good            Ukely
Mallco Chapi, Cochabamba, 2000            100          100         Good        0           CAPYS          Volumetric           Good            Ukely
Mallco Rancho, Cochabamba, 2000           100          100         Good        0           CAPYS          Volumetric           Good            Ukely
ChocacolloOeste, Cochabamba, 1997, FISII  100          100         Good        100       Cooperative      Volumetric           Good            Likely
Colomi Alto, Cochabamba, 1997             100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 2               Good            Likely
Liquintaya, Cochabamba, 2000              100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 3               Good            Likely
Waca Huaso, Cohabamba, 1993, FIS II       100          100         Good         0          CAPYS             B 3.3             Good            Likely
Porvenir, Cochabamba, 2000                100          100         Good        0           CAPYS        B 1.5/cubic meter      Good            Ukely
Perez Rancho, Cochabamba, 1999            100          100         Good        100         CAPYS             B 2               Good            Ukely
Kaluyo, Cochabamba, 1999                  100          100         Good        90          CAPYS             B 2               Good            Likely
Altus Pampa, Cochabamba, 1993, FIS II     100          100         Good        100          OTB        B 0.8/ cubic meter      Good            Likely
CAPYS = Comit6 de Agua Potable y Saneamiento
FIS II = Credit 2532-BO, All other systems financed by PROSABAR under Credit 2603-BO
Bolivianos = B, or about US$0.15



9
5.     Bank Performance
24.    Quality at entry of FIS II, a non-dedicated rural water supply and sanitation project where
the subsector only was a share of a multipurpose social investment fund and of RWSP, a
dedicated rural water supply and sanitation project the only focus of which was the sector,
showed a clear difference. The FIS II Staff Appraisal Report's treatment of the water supply and
sanitation components, estirnated to disburse US$11.5 million out of the total IDA credit of
US$40 million was sketchy and the Bank appraisal team lacked mission members with extensive
experience from the sector. As a consequence, many important aspects of project selection,
design, and sustainability were left quite undefined in the SAR. In general, they were delegated to
be defined through coordination between the project implementation of FIS and the respective
sector authorities. The quali ty at entry of the FIS II water supply and sanitation components could
be best described as undefined.
25.   In contrast, quality at entry of the dedicated RWSP was entirely satisfactory. Ihe project
had been prepared by a Ban]c team that had benefited from the involvement of staff of the World
Bank-UNDP Water and Saritation Program (WSP) with the precursor YACUPAJ project in
Bolivia. The YACUPAJ project had successfully piloted key concepts (such as demand-driven
project selection and community development with training) that were subsequently adopted in
the PROSABAR and RWSPF design. The Bank appraisal team was experienced in the sector and
could design a best practice project in coordination with the sector-specific authorities.
26.    Bank performance during implementation of the two projects was more even. First, FIS
was executing a second project (following FIS L Credit 2127-BO) meant that the positive inertia
was considerable and Bank supervision benefited. Second, the fact that FIS also managed the
construction of the RWSP subprojects also made Bank supervision easier and compensated for
the initial differences in quality at entry. The earlier-mentioned decision to retrofit the early FIS H
projects with the same carefiul community development of the RWSP subprojects was key to
improve the sustainability. hi addition, although less important than the high quality at entry, the
presence of a relatively large: Bank country office in Bolivia also improved Bank supervision,
particularly since supervision was decentralized for FIS II. For the above reasons, OED rates the
Bank performance of both FIS H and of RWSP "satisfactory" although It should be
recognized that quality at entry of the RWSP was superior to that of the FIS II.
6.     Borrower Performance
27.    Borrower performance of all but the initial 23 subprojects exclusively financed under FIS
I must be rated on the basis of the closely coordinated project implementation described in Table
5.



10
Table 5. BOLIVIA-Project Implementation Arrangements in the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Sector, 1995-2001
Step in Project     Ministry of Housing  Social Investment  Municipalities    Communiffes
Implementation      S Basic Services   Fund (FIS)
and PROSABAR
Disseminabon of     Responsible
project In order to
generate demand
and project requests
Preparabon of inital                                                          Responsible
project requests
Prioritzng project                                         Responsible
requests and
preparing
consolidated
investment programs
Making first selecton  Responsible through
of investment      the departmental
program             UNASBAs
representing the
Ministry
Presenbing first    Responsible through
selection of        the departrental
Investment program  UNASBAs
to project         representng the
implementer, FIS    Ministry
Evaluating proposals                    Responsible through
and making                             the departmental FIS
preliminary                            office
commitment with
municipality
Final project selection                Responsible through
the central FIS Board
Project construction                   Responsible through
the departmental FIS
office
Project operations                                                             Responsible through
village operabng
committee
28.     In the main, the subproject cycle appears to have functioned acceptably well but there
were a number of points of friction. First, the demand from communities and municipalities were
steadfastly much above the financial capacity of the program to finance them. As a result, even
after five years of high investment rates the sector still has about one thousand prepared projects
that lack financing. Such excess demand obviously frustrated those communities that were left
out in the final selection of subprojects. Second, there was continuous friction between FIS who
had been trained to construct systems and PROSABAR who had the responsibility of community
development and in the creation of CAPYS (community water supply operating committees) in
order to safeguard sustainability. Third, there was friction between FIS and PROSABAR in
adjusting the per capita investment costs to the possibilities of the communities and the
municipalities to pay their contractual share of the costs. In general, FIS argued in favor of higher
quality standards, which entailed higher costs.
29.     In summary, OED rates the borrower performance of both FIS and the Ministry of
Housing and Basic Services "satisfactory" considering that the friction between the different
involved actors (as noted above) was kept within reasonable limits and that the result was the
rapid implementation of an investment program comprising about 600 subprojects financed under
FIS IH and RWSP.



11
7.     Lessons and Recommendations
Lesson One: The End of Construction Does Not End the Government's Responsibilities
30.    The end of constraction often coincides with the end of government involvement in rural
water supply and sanitation. In Bolivia, as elsewhere, this break is unfortunate for three reasons:
(i) it deprives the village operating committees of a source of technical assistance to optimize
operations and service quality; (ii) it leaves unresolved the government's responsibility to
regulate the cost and quality of services; and (iii) it means that the opportunity to evaluate and
learn from past activities is lost. All three factors are applicable in Bolivia. Some of the systems
visited could have improved the quality of service significantly with simple training and technical
advice and without malcing any investments. Similarly, it was clear that no agency or ministry felt
responsible for regulating the cost and quality of service. Although the sector-wide regulator,
Superintendencia de Saneamiento Basico (SISAB), is responsible in practice, it does not have the
resources to exercise its authority in the large number of small and isolated rural water supply and
sanitation systems. In practice, the pricing policies in the rural water supply sector is therefore left
entirely to the discretion of each community.
Recommendation One: The Government Must Create Back-up Regulation and Operational
Assistance to the Communities
31.    The government should therefore create a pro-active system of regulation, which would
allow trained staff to visit periodically already constructed systems in order to inform itself of the
quality of service and of operations and amend any deficiencies on the spot. The routine costs of
such visits would better be borne by and attached to the departmental UNASBAs but the cost of
repairs should be borne by the communities out of retained earnings. The experience from the
United States and from certain African countries with this kind of roaming operational control
and support services has been positive; efforts to replicate the system should be renewed in
Bolivia. As for the regulation of the level of user fees the present system where the community
sets tariffs to cover the operations and maintenance costs has functioned well and should be
continued.
Lesson Two: Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Programs Invariably Neglect the
Sanitation Components
32.    The two rural water supply and sanitation investment programs financed by FIS II and by
RWSP invested insufficiernt amounts in order to match water supply connection rates with levels
of latrinization. No parity of investments is needed to achieve complete coverage in both essential
services since the per capila costs of latrine programs only amount to about US$12 as compared
to about US$100 (see Table 3) for water supply. However, based on the 25 sample system visits
the achieved latrine coverage under FIS II was only 45 percent and under RWSP only 60 percent
as compared to almost complete water supply coverage. The health hazards from unsanitary
excreta disposal are well kaown since they constitute the prime vector of water and sanitation-
related disease. The risks for epidemics rise with rising population density, which means that they
are higher in peri-urban slum areas than in rural areas.
Recommendation Two: A National Sewerage and Sanitation Program Should be Prepared
and Implemented
33.   It is recommended that the Ministry of Housing and Basic Services (MHBS) initiate the
preparations of a financial and technical assistance program with an exclusive focus to raise the
levels of wastewater collection in peri-urban areas and of latrinization in rural areas. Such a



12
in rural areas. Such a program would be justified on environmental, health, and social
grounds. Both multilateral and bilateral agencies could be asked to support such an
integrated program to build on their past support of the sector.






IMAGING
Report No.:         24158
Type:     PPAR



