Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2806-BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Rural Water and Sanitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 28, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2806-BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries Fund (OPEC Fund) has 
agreed to make a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to $5,000,000 to assist in financing Part B of the Project on terms 
and conditions set forth in a loan agreement (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 with the modifications set forth 
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCB" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central de Bolivia);
 
(b)
"Community" means any indigenous group or rural community or rural 
community legally organized in accordance with Law No. 1551 (Ley No.1551) of the 
Borrower dated April 20, 1994 published in the Official Gazette (Gaceta Oficial) on 
April 21, 1994;
(c)
"Decree No. 22407" means Decreto Supremo No. 22407 of the Borrower dated 
January 11, 1990 which established SIF, as such Decree has been amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"DINASBA" means the National Directorate of Water and Sanitation 
(Direccion Nacional de Saneamiento Basico)  within the National Sub-Secretariat of 
Urban Development (Sub-Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo Urbano) of the Ministry of 
Human Development (Ministerio de Desarrollo Humano) of the Borrower, established 
pursuant to Decree No.22965 (Decreto Supremo No. 22965) of the Borrower dated November 
1, 1991 as such Decree has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)
"Eligible Community" means a Community which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual to: (i) jointly finance; and/or (ii) 
individually or jointly (as the case may be) administer, operate and maintain, with an 
Eligible Municipality, an Investment Subproject;
(f)
"Eligible Department" means a Department within the Borrower's territory 
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual and which 
will be benefited with the activities to be carried out under the Project;
(g)
"Eligible Municipality" means a Municipality which meets the eligibility 
criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual to, inter alia: (i) jointly finance 
with an Eligible Community; (ii) carry out; and/or (iii) individually or jointly (as 
the case may be) administer, operate and maintain with an Eligible Community, an 
Investment Subproject;
(h)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Association 
to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to Section 7.01 (a) of this Agreement, which 
sets forth, inter alia: (i) the eligibility criteria for Eligible Communities and 
Eligible Municipalities; (ii) the eligibility criteria for Investment Subprojects, 
including a detailed description of the environmental guidelines and procedures to be 
followed by each UNASBA in carrying out the environmental assessments of Investment 
Subprojects; (iii) the criteria for selecting the Eligible Communities referred to in 
Part C.4(c) of the Project; (iv)  the disbursement and procurement procedures to be 
followed during the execution of the Project; (v) the monitoring indicators for the 
Project; and (vi) the terms and conditions of a model Subgrant Agreement;
(i)
"Investment Subproject" means a specific project which meets the 
eligibility criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual, consisting, inter alia, 
of the construction of rural water supply facilities and/or construction of sanitation 
facilities, including the acquisition and utilization of the equipment required 
therefor;
(j)
"Municipality" means an entity with juridical personality established 
pursuant to Law No. 696;
(k)
"Per-capita Ceiling Structure" means the structure which established the 
Borrower's financial policy for public investments in rural water and sanitation 
Page  3
projects (including Investment Subprojects), created pursuant to Resolution No.23- 95 
(Resolucion Bi-Ministerial No. 23-95) of the Borrower dated September 11, 1995, as 
such structure may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(l)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit (Programa de Saneamiento Basico 
Rural-PROSABAR) established within DINASBA and referred to in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Project Committee" means the committee to be established in accordance 
with in Section 3.04 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of Agreement dated 
July 14, 1993 countersigned by the Borrower on July 30, 1993 as such advance has been 
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(o)
"SIF" means the Social Investment Fund (Fondo de Inversion Social) 
established pursuant to Decree No. 22407; 
(p)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(q)
"Subgrant" means a grant made or to be made by SIF out of the proceeds of 
the Credit to an Eligible Municipality for the financing of an Investment Subproject;
(r)
"Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement;
(s)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(t)
"UNASBA" means the water and sanitation unit (Unidad de Saneamiento 
Basico) within an Eligible Department or any other unit with similar functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Association;
(u)
"UNASBA Account" means any of the accounts referred to in Section 3.01 
(d) of this Agreement;
(v)
"UNDP" means the United Nations Development Program; and
 
(w)
"UNDP Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR13,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
following amounts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit: (i) amounts paid 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by SIF on account of withdrawals 
made by SIF for the benefit of the corresponding  Eligible Municipality under a 
Subgrant to meet the reasonable costs of goods and works required for an Investment 
Subproject (under Part B of the Project); and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods,works and consultants' services required for Part C of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in BCB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
Page  4
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 2006 and ending September 1, 2035.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2015 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid.  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, with the 
participation of the Project Committee:
Page  5
(i)
shall carry out: (A) Part A of the Project through the 
corresponding UNASBA (within an Eligible Department); and (B) Part 
C of the Project through DINASBA, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
financial, environmental and administrative practices, and in 
accordance with the Implementation Manual, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project;
(ii)
shall cause SIF through the Subsidiary Agreement (as described in 
paragraph (b) below), to carry out Part B of the Project pursuant 
to subgrant agreements (the Subgrant Agreements) to be entered 
into between SIF and the corresponding Eligible Municipality under 
procedures and terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including those referred to in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate technical, financial, environmental and 
administrative practices, and in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual; and
(iii)
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities,  services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable SIF to carry out Part B of the 
Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or  interfere with the carrying out of such Part of 
the Project by SIF.
(b)
The Borrower shall transfer to SIF, on a grant basis, the portion of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part B of the Project, under a subsidiary 
agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and SIF 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(d)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)(i)(A) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall open and thereafter operate and maintain during Project 
implementation in each Eligible Department, an account (the UNASBA Account) in a 
commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, for 
purposes of depositing in such account: (i) the minimum counterpart funds necessary to 
carry out the pre-investment studies under Part A of the Project; and (ii) the 
operating costs of the corresponding UNASBA.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain during Project 
implementation the PMU, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include, inter alia, the responsibility to assist DINASBA in 
the coordination, monitoring and supervision of the execution of the Project; and (ii) 
not later than September 30, 1996, establish and thereafter operate and maintain 
during Project implementation a committee (the Project Committee), with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, inter alia, the 
responsibility to oversee the execution of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU is at all times headed by a 
manager and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
satisfactory to the Association.
Page  6
Section 3.05.  (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 (a) (i) 
(B) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not later than two months after the 
Effective Date enter into a management service agreement with UNDP (the UNDP 
Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall 
include, inter alia, the obligation of UNDP to assist the Borrower in carrying out 
Part C of the Project. 
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the UNDP 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through DINASBA, shall not later than November 30 of 
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association may 
reasonably request with respect to the progress made by the Borrower and SIF in 
carrying out the Parts of the Project under their responsibility during the twelve 
months preceding the date of presentation of each such report.
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through DINASBA, shall not later than December 15 of 
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, a plan of such scope and in such detail as the Association may reasonably 
request with respect to the activities to be carried out by the Borrower and SIF under 
the Project during the calendar year following the date of presentation of such plan. 
Section 3.08. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01(a)(i)(B) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1996 complete the 
design of the proposal referred to in Part C.3 (b) of the Project; (b) not later than 
March 31, 1997 prepare and furnish to the Association, an action plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, which shall include, inter alia, a timetable, for the purpose of 
implementing the proposal referred to in Part C.3 (b) of the Project; and (c) 
immediately thereafter, commence the implementation of the action plan referred to in 
(b) herein in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01(a)(i)(B) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1997 complete the 
design of the new cost recovery system referred to in Part C.3 (c) of the Project; and 
(b) not later than March 31, 1998 take or cause to be taken all necessary actions to 
adopt the policy mentioned in (a) herein by such date.
Section 3.10. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause SIF to, review jointly with 
the Association by not later than January 31 of each year during Project 
implementation, starting in 1997, the progress made by the Borrower and SIF in: (i) 
carrying out the Parts of the Project under their responsibility; and (ii) achieving 
the objectives of the Project.  Such review shall also focus in  analyzing the 
pertinent reports and plans referred to in Sections 3.06 and 3.07 of this Agreement, 
respectively.
(b)
As part of each such review referred to in (a) above, the Association may 
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, to 
make adjustments in Project implementation.  If so, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish such action plan to the Association not later than thirty days after the 
conclusion of each such review and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, such action plan in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.11. In the event that the pre-investment study of a potential 
Investment Subproject determines that such Investment Subproject, if carried out, 
would have in the opinion of the Association a potential negative environmental 
impact, the Borrower shall cause SIF not to finance such Investment Subproject until 
appropriate actions, satisfactory to the Association, have been undertaken to mitigate 
such potential negative impact.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such Parts of the 
Page  7
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account and each UNASBA 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SIF to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of SIF.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause SIF to:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SIF, through the Subsidiary Agreement,to 
Page  8
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices under the supervision 
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That SIF shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
That the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SIF or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(c)
That Decree No. 22407 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of SIF to carry out Part B of 
the Project.
(d)
That Decree No. 22965 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Association, the ability of the Borrower, through 
DINASBA, to carry out Part C of the Project.
(e)
That the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective 
by June 30, 1997, or such later date as the Association may agree; 
provided,however,that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for Part B of 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan (including the OPEC Fund Loan) or grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreements providing therefor; 
or
(B)
any such loan (including the OPEC Fund Loan) shall have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under any loan agreement (including the OPEC 
Fund Loan Agreement) or grant agreement, as the case may be; 
and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) or (d)  of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (f) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Page  9
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (f) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that the Implementation Manual has been adopted by the Borrower, through 
DINASBA;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and 
SIF; and
(c)
that at least three UNASBAS Accounts have been opened in accordance with 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SIF and is legally binding 
upon the Borrower and SIF in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date June 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda
Centro de Comunicaciones Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal No.9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  10
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Cossio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                     Credit               % of
                                    Allocated         Expenditures
                                  (Expressed in           to be
          Category               SDR Equivalent)        Financed
(1)       Subgrants for               6,650,000       100% of the
          Investment                                  amounts
          Subprojects                                 disbursed by SIF
(2)       Goods under                   270,000       100% of foreign
          Part C of the                               expenditures
          Project                                     and 100% of
                                                      local expendi-
                                                      tures (ex-
                                                      factory cost)
(3)       Works under Part              130,000       85%
          C.3(e) of the Project
(4)       Consultants'                4,290,000       100%
          Services
(5)       Training                      670,000       100%
(6)       Travel Costs                   80,000       100%
          under Part C
          of the Project
(7)       UNDP Fee                      180,000       100%
(8)       Refunding of                1,130,000       Amounts due
          Project Preparation                         pursuant to
          Advance                                     Section 2.02 (c)
                                                      of this Agreement
             TOTAL                   13,400,000
Page  11
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants' 
services) made in connection with the training activities under the Project, including 
the travel cost and per diem of the trainees;
(d)
the term "Travel Costs" means travel and per diem expenditures incurred 
by the consultants to be hired in connection with the carrying out of Part C of the 
Project; and
(e)
the term "UNDP Fee" means the fee to be paid to UNDP in connection with 
the services rendered by UNDP to the Borrower under the UNDP Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR1,130,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (7) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 31, 1995; and
(b)
payments made on account of a Subgrant (under Part B of the Project) 
unless the corresponding Subgrant Agreement has been entered into between the parties 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
financed by Subgrants costing the equivalent of $100,000 or less; (b) contracts for 
goods (other than goods financed by Subgrants) costing the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less; (c) contracts for works financed by Subgrants costing the equivalent of $250,000 
or less; (d) contracts for works (other than works financed by  Subgrants); (e) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $25,000 equivalent; 
(f) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less than $5,000 
equivalent; and (g) Training, Travel Costs and UNDP Fee as set forth in Categories 
(5),(6) and (7) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, respectively, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to alleviate poverty in the rural areas by 
enhancing the economic productivity of people living in such areas through: (a) the 
improvement of health; and (b) a more productive use of the time of individual 
households within Eligible Communities, by: (i) increasing the coverage and 
sustainable use of water and sanitation services to Eligible Municipalities and 
Eligible Communities; (ii) assisting UNASBA in each Eligible Department to develop the 
capacity of such units to provide technical assistance to Eligible Municipalities and 
Eligible Communities; (iii) providing training to the personnel of Eligible 
Communities in the administration, operation and maintenance of water and sanitation 
services; and (iv) strengthening the institutional capacity of DINASBA.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Pre-investment Studies
 
Carrying out of pre-investment studies of potential Investment Subprojects by 
UNASBAS (within Eligible Departments).
Part B:
Investment Subprojects
 
Financing of Investment Subprojects.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
 
Page  12
1.
Provision of technical assistance to: (a) the PMU to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities as provided in Section 3.04 (a) (i) of this Agreement; and (b) to 
UNASBAS (within each Eligible Department) to: (i) assist such units in carrying out 
pre-investment studies of potential Investment Subprojects; and (ii) assist Eligible 
Municipalities in the preparation and supervision of their respective Investment 
Subprojects.
2.
Provision of training to: (a) Eligible Municipalities and Eligible Communities 
in the administration, operation and maintenance of Investment Subprojects, including 
in the setting of service tariffs,in hygiene education and in the implementation of 
the water quality control program referred to in Part C.3 (d) below; (b) operators and 
administrators of Investment Subprojects in the carrying out of a certification 
program consisting of testing each trainee who has been benefited with the training 
referred to herein, and granting to such trainee a good-skills certificate thereafter; 
(c) professional associations which carry out activities related to water and 
sanitation; (d) associations of manufacturers of water and sanitation equipment and 
materials; and (e) DINASBA, SIF and each UNASBA (within an Eligible Department) to 
assist such entities in c carrying out the Parts of the Project under their 
responsibility.
3.
(a) Design of a regulatory framework for the rural water and sanitation sector; 
(b) design of a proposal to incorporate DINASBA's personnel into the Borrower's civil 
service program; (c) design and implementation of a cost recovery system for the rural 
water and sanitation sector; (d) design and implementation of a water quality control 
program, including the acquisition and utilization of the field testing equipment 
required for the implementation of such program; (e) design and construction of 
low-cost technology of water and sanitation facilities and/or the design of 
methodologies and training materials (which include,inter alia, videos, charts and 
posters) for the participation of Communities in Investment Subprojects,including the 
acquisition and utilization of the goods required therefor; and (f) design and 
implementation of a management information system to assist DINASBA in the supervision 
of the Project.
4.
Carrying out of impact evaluation studies, including, inter alia, the following 
studies: (a) a study of the performance of: (i) DINASBA, UNASBAS and SIF in carrying 
out the parts of the Project under their responsibility; and (ii) the Eligible 
Municipalities in carrying out Investment Subprojects; (b) a study of the 
decision-making process adopted by the entities mentioned in (a) herein to implement 
the Project; and (c) a study of the benefits of the Project in Eligible Communities to 
be selected in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Implementation Manual.
5.
Carrying out of: (a) a dissemination campaign in the rural areas in order to 
communicate to Municipalities and Communities the social, economic and financial 
criteria to be followed during Project implementation; and (b) workshops to analyze 
and discuss the progress in Project implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works (including those goods and works financed by Subgrants under 
Part B of the Project, respectively) shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works financed 
by Subgrants under Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to the goods and works to be procured under 
Page  13
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.1.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works financed by Subgrants 
under Part B of the Project shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more 
than the equivalent of $100,000 each and $1,000,000 each, respectively.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Goods financed by Subgrants under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or less but more than the equivalent of $25,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $750,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Works financed by Subgrants under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(c)
In the procurement of goods and works under Part C.1 of this Section, the 
Borrower shall use standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
National Shopping
 
(a)
Goods financed by Subgrants under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $25,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $250,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (other than the goods financed by Subgrants under Part B of the 
Project) shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
 
(a)
Works financed by Subgrants under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, 
may be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the 
contract.
(b)
Works (other than works financed by Subgrants under Part B of the 
Project) shall: (a) be procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to 
a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings,
where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
successfully complete the contract; or (b) in the event that it is not possible to 
obtain more than one quotation and with the Association's prior agreement (up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000), be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  14
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods financed by Subgrants to be awarded 
under Part B of this Section; (b) each contract for goods (other than goods financed 
by Subgrants under Part B of the Project) estimated to cost more than $50,000 
equivalent; and (c) each contract for works financed by Subgrants estimated to cost 
more than $250,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Association, with such modifications as shall have been agreed
by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by 
the Association, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used other standard forms 
agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$5,000 equivalent or above.
Section III.
Special Provisions for National Competitive Bidding and the Employment of 
Consultants
A.
In addition and without limitation to any other provision set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C.1 of Section 
I of this Schedule:
1.
A merit point system shall not be used in the prequalification of bids.
 
2.
The award of goods and civil works contracts will be based exclusively on price 
and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation 
shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure 
for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
3.
The Borrower shall open all bids at the stipulated time and place in accordance 
with a procedure satisfactory to the Association.
4.
The Borrower shall use a single envelope procedure.
 
5.
Where there is a discrepancy between the amounts in figures and in words of a 
bid, the amounts in words shall govern. 
Page  15
6.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the bidding process shall not 
be declared void if only three bids or less have been submitted unless such bids have 
been determined to be not responsive.
7.
Any standards and technical specifications, (quoted in the bidding documents) 
which are at least substantially equivalent to the national standards and technical 
specifications shall be acceptable.
8.
Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate in national competitive bidding.
 
9.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize any documentation related to 
their bids with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
10.
No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of bidders.
 
11.
The auction procedure (Puja Abierta) shall not be used. 
 
12.
In the event that a bidder whose bid was evaluated as the bid with the lowest 
evaluated price withdraws its bid, the contract may be awarded to the second lowest 
responsive evaluated bid.
13.
Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for submitting bids, be required to 
enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders.
14.
No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower's agencies or of any 
state-owned entity shall apply without the prior review and consent of the 
Association.
B.
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following principles and rules of 
procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred 
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for participating in the selection 
process, be required to enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants 
unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.14 of the Consultants uidelines are met.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with Bolivian authorities as a prerequisite 
for participating in the selection process.
3.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered in the Registro 
Nacional de Consultoria (National Registry of Consultants) or any other registry as a 
prerequisite for participating in the selection process.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the  Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals [from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association] pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions] shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR3,330,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  16
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the  respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
Page  17
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Procedures and Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
Subgrants
1.
Each Subgrant shall finance: (a) up to 70% of the Total Cost of each Investment 
Subproject; or (b) up to an amount based on the Per-capita Ceiling Structure, 
whichever is the lowest amount. For purposes of this paragraph the term "Total Cost" 
means 100% of the cost of each Investment Subproject which includes: (i) the cost of 
civil works and goods; and (ii) the fee to be paid to SIF for the services provided by 
SIF in connection with the processing and the financing of the
corresponding Investment Subproject, such fee to be determined in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association;
2.
Each Subgrant shall be made pursuant to a Subgrant Agreement, whereby SIF shall 
obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Eligible Municipality to carry out the respective Investment 
Subproject with the assistance of SIF, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound administrative, technical, engineering, financial and 
environmental standards;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and works shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the respective Investment Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods and works included in the respective 
Investment Subproject, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require the Eligible Municipality to finance at least 30% of the total 
cost of the corresponding Investment Subproject, such financing to be made in cash;
(e)
require the Eligible Municipality to take all such action as shall be 
necessary to acquire as when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as 
shall be required for carrying out the respective Investment Subproject and shall 
furnish to the Association, promptly upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the 
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes 
related to such Investment Subproject;
(f)
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.11 of this Agreement, require the 
Eligible Municipality to: (i) prepare and furnish to SIF (prior to the commencement of 
any works to be carried out under the respective Investment Subproject) an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Association, to mitigate any potential negative 
environmental impact; and (ii) thereafter carry out the action plan referred to in (i) 
herein in accordance with its terms;
(g)
if applicable, require the Eligible Municipality to delegate (partially 
or totally) to the Eligible Community under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, the right to administer, operate and maintain the respective Investment 
Subproject immediately after the works under such subproject have been concluded; and
Page  18
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Municipality to benefit 
from the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such municipality to comply with any 
of its obligations under the corresponding Subgrant Agreement.
