Page  1
July 29, 1998
Lic. Edgar Millares                                                                                                      
Minister of Finance 
Ministery of Finance 
Palacio de Comunicaciones, piso 19 
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Sir, 
                           Re:
Credit No. 2806-BO - Rural Water and Sanitation 
Project
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
        Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between the Republic of 
Bolivia and the International Development Association (the Association) dated March 
28, 1996, as amended.
        In response to requests of the Social Investment Fund and the Ministry of 
Finance, we inform you that the Association hereby agrees to amend the DCA as follows, 
thereby reversing an amendment to DCA Schedule 1, paragraph 1, Category 1 purportedly 
made by exchange of written notices between the Association’s Mr. Krishna Challa 
(notice to Minister of Finance Mr. Fernando Candia, dated June 27, 1996) and 
Subsecretario de Inversión Pública y Financiamiento Externo Mr. Juan Carlos Aguilar 
Perales (notice DIFEM/2885/96 to Mr. Challa, dated August 22, 1996).
         (a)      The third column in Category 1 of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the DCA shall read a follows "100% of the amounts disbursed by 
SIF".  Thus, said Category 1 shall read as follows in its entirety:
           Category              Amount of the 
         % of 
                                Credit Allocated 
 Expenditures
                                (Expressed in           to be
                                SDR Equivalent)         Financed
(1)     Subgrants for            SDR 6,650,000         100% of the  
        Investment                                     amounts
        Subprojects                                    disbursed by SIF
 (and not to financed 
 by the OPEC Fund 
 Loan)
        This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and shall become effective as of the date first above-weitten 
upon receipt by the association of one fully executed original of the amendment 
letter.
       Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this amendment letter.  Upon your confirmation, please return 
one fully executed original to us
Sincerely,
/s/ Isabel Guerrero
Director 
Bolivia, Paraguay and Perú 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
On Behalf of the Borrower
Page  2
/s/ Edgar Millares
Ministry of Finance 
Republic of Bolivia
