                                        Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00003114



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$300 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                         STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL

        WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                        FOR A

        FISCAL EFFICIENCY FOR QUALITY OF PUBLIC SERVICE DELIVERY
                        DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                                     July 17, 2014




Governance Global Practice
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                          (Exchange Rate Effective July 17, 2014)
                             Currency Unit           = Real
                                                  Brazil
                                   R$ 1.00          =0.45
                                                  US$
                                  US$ 1.00           =
                                                  R$ 2.21

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1 – December 31



                         ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AGE      Internal Audit Department                Auditoria Geral do Estado
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy             Estratégia de Parceria com o País
DPL      Development Policy Loan                  Empréstimo para Políticas de
                                                  Desenvolvimento
FY       Fiscal year                              Ano Fiscal
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                   Produto Interno Bruto
GIDE     Integrated School Management             Gestão Integrada da Escola
GORJ     Government of Rio de Janeiro             Governo do Estado do Rio de Janeiro
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction    Banco Internacional para Reconstrução e
         and Development                          Desenvolvimento
ICMS     Tax on Goods and Services                Imposto sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e
                                                  Prestação de Serviços
IDEB     Index of Development of Basic            Índice de Desenvolvimento da Educação
         Education                                Básica
LOA      Annual Budget Law                        Lei de Orçamento Anual
LRF      Fiscal Responsibility Law                Lei de Responsabilidade Fiscal
PAC      Growth Acceleration Program              Programa de Aceleração do Crescimento
PAHI     Program to Support Hospitals             Programa de Apoio aos Hospitais do
                                                  Interior
PAF    Program of Fiscal Adjustment               Programa de Ajuste Fiscal
PFM    Public Financial Management                Gestão de Finanças Públicas
PPA    Multi-year Plan                            Plano Plurianual
PPP    Public-Private Partnerships                Parcerias Público-Privadas
PSF    Program for Primary Health Care            Programa Saúde Família
REGIN  Integrated Recording System for taxes      Sistema de Registro Integrado
SAERJ  Education evaluation system of the         Sistema de Avaliação da Educação no
       State of Rio de Janeiro                    Estado do Rio de Janeiro
SEEDUC State Secretariat of Education             Secretaria de Estado de Educação
SEFAZ State Secretariat of Finance                Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda

                                             ii
SEPLAG State Secretariat of Planning                 Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento
SES    State Secretariat of Health                   Secretaria de Estado de Saúde
SESDEC State Secretariat of Health and Civil         Secretaria de Estado de Saúde e Defesa
       Defense                                       Civil
SIL    Specific Investment Loan                      Empréstimo para Investimento Específico
STN    National Treasury Secretariat                 Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
SUS    Public Health System                          Sistema Único de Saúde
SWAP   Sector Wide Approach                          Abordagem Setorial Ampla
TAL    Technical Assistance Loan                     Empréstimo para Assistência Técnica
UPA    24 hour emergency care unit                   Unidade de Pronto Atendimento
VAT    Value Added Tax                               Imposto sobre o Valor Adicionado
WB     World Bank                                    Banco Mundial




                            Vice President:          Jorge Familiar
                          Country Director:          Deborah L. Wetzel
                   Senior Practice Director:         Mario Marcel Cullel
                         Practice Manager:           Arturo Herrera Gutiérrez
                             Team Leader:            Roland Clarke
                        ICR Team Leader:             Lorena Viñuela
                          ICR Lead Author            Eduardo Somensatto




                                               iii
                                                               CONTENTS



Data Sheet ........................................................................................................................................
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ....................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................... 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes .................................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................ 17
6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................................... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ................... 21
Annexes ........................................................................................................................................ 22




                                                                        iv
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
                                                                      RIO STATE
Country:               Brazil               Program Name:             DEVELOPMENT
                                                                      POLICY LOAN III
Program ID:            P126465              L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-81910
ICR Date:              07/10/2014           ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                      THE STATE OF RIO
Lending Instrument:    DPL                  Borrower:
                                                                      DE JANEIRO
Original Total
                       US$US$ 300.00M       Disbursed Amount:         US$US$ 300.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        US$US$ 300.00M
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretaria de Fazenda
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process        Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/28/2011   Effectiveness:       11/30/2012         11/16/2012
Appraisal:             02/09/2012   Restructuring(s):
Approval:              08/30/2012   Mid-term Review:
                                    Closing:             01/31/2014         01/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                   Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                       Moderately Satisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Satisfactory        Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                   QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                         Rating:
     Performance                                        (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                 Quality at Entry
Program at any time      No                                               None
                                                 (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                          Quality of
                         No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                   20                    20
Health                                                     20                    20
Sub-national government administration                     60                    60



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Education for all                                                   20                  20
 Health system performance                                           20                  20
 Managing for development results                                    10                  10
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                     30                  30
procurement
 Tax policy and administration                                       20                  20

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:          Jorge Familiar                         Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:        Deborah L. Wetzel                      Deborah L. Wetzel
Sector/Practice Manager: Arturo Herrera Gutierrez               Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
Program Team Leader: Roland N. Clarke                           Roland N. Clarke
ICR Team Leader:         Lorena Viñuela
ICR Primary Author:      Eduardo Somensatto




                                                 i
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the proposed operation is to assist the Government of Rio de Janeiro in
strengthening its tax administration, improving the efficiency of public financial management,
increasing the quality of public service provision in education and health and ensuring that
policies adopted are both consistent with priorities of the State Government and with resources
likely to be available in the medium term.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
Not applicable.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                                             Actual Value
                                             Original Target
                                                                     Formally Revised        Achieved at
      Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from
                                                                      Target Values       Completion or Target
                                           approval documents)
                                                                                                Years
Indicator 1 :      ICMS tax annual revenue
Value
(quantitative or   24.8 billion           37.7 billion            28.67 billion           30.75 billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011               12/31/2013             12/31/2013              12/31/2013
                   Target was fully achieved.
Comments
                   The baseline and target value included in the approved Program Document were erroneous.
(incl. %
                   The original baseline for 2011 was R$32.6 billion, but official data showed that it was R$24.8
achievement)
                   billion. The target was 15.6% increase and the result 23.99%.
Indicator 2 :      ITD tax annual revenue
Value
(quantitative or   418 million                                    470 million             644.6 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011                                     12/31/2013              12/31/2013
Comments
                   Target was fully achieved.
(incl. %
                   The target was 12.4% increase and the result 54%. This is not a normalized indicator.
achievement)
                   Establishment of Unified General Taxpayer ledger, with access of individual taxpayers to their
Indicator 3 :
                   unified accounts
                                                                                         Unified General
                                                                                         Taxpayer ledger has
                                                                                         been created, but it is
                                          Unified General                                still in experimental
Value                                     Taxpayer ledger, with                          phase for internal
                   No Unified General
(quantitative or                          access of individual                           purposes. GoRJ
                   Taxpayer Ledger
Qualitative)                              taxpayers to their                             Authorities estimate
                                          unified accounts                               that individual
                                                                                         taxpayers will have
                                                                                         access to their unified
                                                                                         accounts in 2015.


                                                         ii
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                      12/31/2013
                   Target was partially achieved.
Comments
                   The program required advancing through a series of sequential steps, before the ledger could
(incl. %
                   be fully operational. Those steps took longer and proved more difficult to effect than initially
achievement)
                   anticipated.
                   Number of indicators adopted as part of the progressive implementation of performance based
Indicator 4 :
                   management in tax administration
Value
(quantitative or   0 indicators adopted    20 indicators adopted                            20 indicators adopted
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                       12/31/2013
Comments
                   Target was fully achieved. The target number of indicators adopted was 10 by 2012 and 20 by
(incl. %
                   2013. Both goals were met.
achievement)
                   Number of public investment projects estimated to cost over R$50,000,000 subjected to the
Indicator 5 :      new technical screening process and with consolidated information showing annual
                   commitments published
                   0 prior investment      5 prior investment                                  0 prior investment
Value              projects                projects                                            projects
(quantitative or   shown in the annual     shown in the annual                                 shown in the annual
Qualitative)       commitments of          commitments of                                      commitments of
                   investments             investments                                         investments
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                          12/31/2013
                   Target not achieved.
Comments
                   Three investment proposals were identified for screening. However, these were subjected to
(incl. %
                   an ex-post evaluation rather than ex-ante process and the costing information was not included
achievement)
                   in the budget.
Indicator 6 :      Number of major policy programs with detailed costing and key results defined and published
                                                                                               3 major policy
Value              0 major policy          4 major policy                                      programs with costing
(quantitative or   programs with costing programs with costing                                 (ex-post) and results
Qualitative)       and results published and results published                                 prepared but not
                                                                                               published
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                          12/31/2013
                   Target was partially achieved.
Comments
                   With the analysis, SEFAZ was able to link the costs of the programs to the number of
(incl. %
                   beneficiaries, and begin to identify those factors, such as eligibility criteria, that could drive
achievement)
                   future expenditures.
                   Implementation of an action plan to improve internal control system is developed on the basis
Indicator 7 :
                   of the annual report from State Audit on the performance of internal control systems
                                           Action plan to improve                              Action plan to improve
                                           internal controls                                   internal controls
                                           developed on the basis                              published and annual
Value                                      of the annual report of                             report on human
                   No plan or regular
(quantitative or                           the State Audit agency                              resource reforms and
                   reporting.
Qualitative)                               to the State                                        performance of
                                           Government on the                                   internal control
                                           performance of                                      systems corresponding
                                           internal controls                                   to 2013 published
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                          12/31/2013
Comments           Target was fully achieved.
(incl. %           Additional reforms recommended by the 2013 report are under implementation. Indicators to
achievement)       measure and monitor the process have been developed and used since 2012.


                                                        iii
Indicator 8 :      Number of regional directors selected using new merit-based process
Value
(quantitative or   0                       28                                            35
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                      12/31/2013
Comments           Target was fully achieved.
(incl. %           18 regional supervising directors and 17 regional pedagogical directors represent a 100% of
achievement)       the regional positions.
Indicator 9 :      Number of school directors selected based on merit
Value
(quantitative or   0                       82                                            164
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                    12/31/2013
Comments
                   Target was fully achieved.
(incl. %
                   Additionally, 184 assistant directors were selected based on merit.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     Annual bonuses paid to school personnel for achieving 80% of improvement targets.
Value
                                           Bonuses for 2012 paid                         Bonuses for 2012 paid
(quantitative or   No bonuses paid
                                           by June 2013                                  by June 2013
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                    12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target was fully achieved.
achievement)




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                                                            Actual Value
                                             Original Target
                                                                     Formally Revised       Achieved at
       Indicator       Baseline Value         Values (from
                                                                      Target Values      Completion or Target
                                           approval documents)
                                                                                               Years
Indicator 1 :      Annual school targets communicated to schools (before March)
                                                                                         2013 and 2014 annual
Value              No annual               Annual school targets                         school targets
(quantitative or   improvement targets     communicated to                               communicated to
Qualitative)       communicated            schools (before March)                        schools (before March
                                                                                         of the previous year)
Date achieved      12/31/2011              12/31/2013                                    06/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %           Target was fully achieved.
achievement)




G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

 No.       Date ISR                  DO                               IP                       Actual

                                                        iv
        Archived                                                 Disbursements
                                                                 (US$ millions)
  1    11/14/2012           Satisfactory       Satisfactory   0.00
  2    03/20/2013           Satisfactory       Satisfactory   300.00
  3    02/08/2014           Satisfactory       Satisfactory   300.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable.




                                           v
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.       The Development Policy Loan (DPL) formed part of a continuous engagement of the
World Bank with the State of Rio de Janeiro. The operation was the third in a quasi-
programmatic series of DPLs that started in 2009 and supported important public sector and
service delivery reforms in the State. This engagement continues to date with follow-up policy
based operations and targeted technical assistance.
2.       The initial discussions of a possible third DPL took place in the early stages of the
second term of Governor Sergio Cabral’s administration. The Governor had been re-elected at
the end of 2010, and had begun his second term with the intention of accelerating the public
sector reforms started during his first term (2007-2010). The new set of reforms was motivated
by the realization of the need to show greater results, to effect more fundamental changes, and to
consolidate earlier policy changes.
3.        During the administration’s first term, and in the midst of the financial crisis, the
Government of Rio de Janeiro (GORJ) embarked on a set of much needed reforms aimed at
regaining control of the State’s fiscal position, improving public sector management, and
increasing the efficiency in the provision of public services. The administration had inherited a
difficult fiscal situation and a deficient administrative capacity in many areas. Prior to 2007, the
annual budget process was essentially inoperative, with funds allocated in an ad-hoc basis, the
revenue base had eroded, and planning was almost non-existent.
4.       The operation was designed to assist the GORJ accelerate and deepen its reform
process. The loan built on the prior two DPLs, approved in 2010 and 2011, that had supported
key measures in fiscal management, competitiveness, service delivery and urban infrastructure.
These areas had been identified as priorities in the Government’s Multi-year Plan 2012-2015.
5.       The continued engagement by the Bank helped to build a solid long term relationship
with the GORJ, which proved crucial in advancing the reform process in Rio. The Bank
extended significant knowledge support during the preparation of the loan and worked closely
with the administration in identifying measures that would consolidate previous reform efforts.
6.       The Bank’s close engagement in the definition of the program was the result of
accumulated experience in the State, such as in the health, education and financial management,
and also drew on experience built up elsewhere. The Bank’s involvement with the GORJ was
also strengthened by the close working relationship it had developed with the Municipality of
Rio de Janeiro and its work with other states in Brazil.
7.       The Bank had accumulated considerable experience with public sector reforms at the
sub-national level in Brazil. It has worked with (and continues to work with) many states to help
improve their fiscal management capacity and, more importantly, to pursue results-based public
sector management reforms. This helped to build the Bank’s reputation as a trusted and
knowledgeable partner in the area of public sector reforms. As a result, the authorities requested
the operation and the continued participation of the Bank in the reform process of the State.
8.       The time to prepare the operation was very compressed and a rapid preparation was
possible because of the rich on-going dialogue between the Bank and the GORJ. The program
encompassed several important areas of the public administration and required considerable

                                                 1
work effort by a large team from both the Bank and the State Government. Even though
discussions on some topics had taken place over an extended period of time, the definition of the
details of the program occurred over a short period of time, from late 2011 and early 2012. To
ensure the strength of the program, it was necessary to reach quick resolutions and agreements
by the involved parties. This included also establishing estimates of expected results two years
hence, which are now the basis for the evaluation of the program in this ICR.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
9.        The main objective of the operation was to support the State Government to strengthen
its tax administration, improve the efficiency of public financial management, and increase the
quality of public service provision in education and health. The overarching goal was to promote
broader changes in the administrative structure of the State Government, to improve its
institutional capacity, and to consolidate and secure the advances made since 2007.
10.    The key outcome indicators and expected results under each policy area are summarized
below.
11.      In the area of Tax Administration: The objectives were to strengthen and increase the
efficiency of tax administration, to raise additional resources, and maintain a solid fiscal position.
The prior actions included legal and administrative measures designed to strengthen the basis for
the introduction of results based management, for establishing standards to improve tax
collection, and to strengthen the tax payer registration system. The key outcome indicators and
expected results were: a) an increase in the revenue of ICMS and ITD taxes by 15.6 and 12.4
percent by 2013; b) the establishment of the general tax payer ledger, allowing individual
taxpayers to access their unified accounts; and c) the gradual introduction of performance
indicators for tax administration, from 0 to 10 indicators by the end 2012 to 20 by the end of
2013.
12.       In the area of Public Financial Management: The objectives were to build the
institutional capacity and introduce the systems and procedures to improve the management and
controls of public expenditures, particularly in large investments and programs. The prior
actions included the adoption of a methodology and procedures for evaluating investment
projects, the introduction of pilots to test methodologies for costing social and economic
development programs, and the restructuring of the internal audit institutional arrangements. The
key outcome indicators and expected results were: a) at least five investment projects (with costs
over R$ 50 million) to be subjected to a screening process for approval, according to the adopted
techniques; b) publishing the annual commitments for five large selected investment projects; c)
publishing the cost and defining key results for at least four major policy programs; d) improving
the internal control systems used by AGE in accordance with the 2013 Action Plan developed on
the basis of its 2012 Annual Report.
13.       In the areas of Public Education and Health Services: The objectives were to: first, in
education, to contribute to raise the State of Rio to the top five performers in the national
development index of basic education by 2013; and second, in health, to improve the
management and efficiency of service delivery. The prior actions entailed formally adopting the
merit based systems for selection of personnel in the education sector, and introducing the school
level targets and bonus program. In the health sector, the measures included adopting the legal
and administrative framework for contracting social (non-public) organizations to deliver
services, and regulations governing the incentives, transfers and allocation of services by local

                                                  2
hospitals. The key outcome indicators and expected results in the education and health included:
i) the merit based selection of all 28 regional directors and 164 school directors by 2013; ii) the
application of school level targets for both 2013 and 2014 (established and communicated in the
previous year); iii) the payments of performance bonuses in 2013 based on 2012 targets; iv)
improve the participation of non-profit providers through the signing of contracts with social
organizations (OS) to manage 15 health units and strategic services (e.g. lab services, imagery
services) by 2012 and 22 by 2013; iv) raising the number of hospitals under the performance-
based transfer PAHI1 program with ombudsman services from 44 to 63 by the end of the period;
v) increasing the number of hospitals with infection evaluation committees from 46 to 66 by the
end of the period; and vi) having 24 percent of the complex treatments in hospitals (compared to
current 17 percent) be for patients from municipalities other than the location of the hospital.
1.3 Revised Program Development Objective and Key Indicators, and Reasons
14.     Not applicable.
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
15.      They policy areas covered by the operation were well aligned with the priorities and
objectives outlined in the Government’s Multi-year Plan (for the period 2012-2015). The main
areas of the plan were economic management, infrastructure, social policies, human capital, and
quality of life. The primary goal was to accelerate and deepen the reforms began in the first term
and effect more fundamental changes.
16.     The present operation was also consistent with and closely linked to the objectives of
the 2012-2015 Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Brazil, which emphasized sound
macroeconomic management, fiscal consolidation, increasing the efficient public sector
management, and improving quality of education and health expenditures for low income
households, especially at the sub-national level, as key pillars for achieving sustainable economic
development and inclusive economic growth in Brazil.
17.      The selection of the components emerged from the Bank’s engagement with the State of
Rio, and the joint work that had been done in the earlier phases of the reform program. While
not a formal programmatic series, the sequence of loans that supported different phases of the
reform process and the nature of the continuous policy dialogue essentially makes the operations
a quasi-programmatic series (the main operations are summarized in Figure 1 and more details
are available in Annex 6). The sequencing of the reform process and the developing priorities of
the Government provided a good rationale for the content of the third DPL. These were the
context in each policy area of the DPL.
18.      The first State DPL focused on fiscal management and service delivery in the health and
education sector. It established the basis for the current operation by supporting earlier measures
to consolidate the fiscal position, improve the efficiency of tax administration, strengthen budget
procedures and financial management, and raise the quality and efficiency of the education
system, along with increasing access to health services. The third DPL built and deepened the
work started under the first DPL by addressing the same broad areas of fiscal reform, health, and
education. The operation was also accompanied by important technical assistance in the areas of
public financial management, tax administration, education, and health, and by knowledge
services, in both the health and fiscal areas. Technical assistance has focused on improving
information systems for service delivery, strengthening the evidence base of policy, and


                                                3
expanding performance-based management. The third DPL helped the Government launch an
important new phase of reforms and initiate new ones in public investment management.
                           Figure 1: Rio de Janeiro Quasi-Programmatic Series




Note: Implementation Completion/Support Reports’ ratings: HS = Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, MS = Moderately
Satisfactory, MU = Moderately Unsatisfactory

19.       Policy Area 1 – Strengthening Tax Administration. The process of improving tax
administration was already underway when the operation was designed and negotiated.
Previously, the Secretariat of Finance had professionalized the Revenue Secretariat and adopted
electronic invoices. The GORJ had seen an important increase in tax collection since 2006,
primarily due to economic growth and the performance of key sectors in the economy, but also
to modernization of tax administration by the Authorities. The actions included in the operation
to support the on-going reform process were: (i) the introduction of performance management in
the tax administration unit of the Secretariat of Finance; (ii) the integration of taxpayer
information; (iii) the introduction of digital certificates for taxpayers; (iv) the development of the
first stages of the taxpayer ledger; and (v) the consolidation of the collection system.
20.       Policy Area 2 – Improving Public Financial Management. Improved budgetary
management and administrative reforms were central to the overall program, and had been a
main component of DPL I. Since 2007, the GORJ devoted considerable attention to enhance
fiscal control and make budget execution more orderly. They put in place financial management
systems that regularized payments and eliminated arrears. They also strengthened the
institutional capacity of SEFAZ, through new staffing, policies and procedures. However, there
was still much to be done to improve public investment management, to better understand the
factors driving the costs of different programs, and to modernize internal controls; areas in which
the Government had not until that date engaged with the Bank.



                                                         4
21.       In the area of Public Investment, the institutional capacity of the SEPLAG had
declined over time. There were major deficiencies in the preparation and implementation of the
investment program. Even though State’s budget planning has been guided by the Multi-Annual
Plan, in practice, investment decisions were fragmented among different agencies, driven by
political and sectorial considerations and budgetary allocations done in an ad hoc manner. There
were few formal mechanisms for filtering and prioritizing investment proposals, and hardly any
feasibility studies done. While sector review committees were responsible for reviewing
proposed investments, in many cases they lacked the basic planning information on costs to
make an informed recommendation. They also did not have information on the operation and
maintenance costs of new investments, which in some instances were not part of budgetary
planning exercises. These deficiencies made imperative the need to improve the GORJ’s
investment planning capacity, which became a crucial part of the reform supported by the Bank.
22.      As a result, the Authorities and the Bank agreed on including key measures under the
DPL in the investment area. These included the adoption of formal procedures for evaluation,
selection and approval of public investment projects that had a total estimated cost of over R$50
million. In addition, the State was to carry out detailed analysis of all ongoing major investment
projects to document costs and future operating and maintenance costs. The process began with
five investment projects during 2012 that served as pilots.1 This was to be followed up with ex-
ante analysis for other projects above the R$50 million threshold. It was recognized that it was
going to be a major undertaking, since there were 26 investment projects over R$50 million in
the budget for 2012, accounting for 68 percent of the R$6.8 billion State investment budget.
23.      Costing of Programs. In recent years the GoRJ had improved service delivery by
expanding or introducing new programs, in transport, housing, health, and income subsidies.
These programs included basic cost estimates when first introduced, but these estimates did not
fully capture the future fiscal implications of the programs. To improve the planning, the
authorities piloted a program to improve their costing methodology. This was done prior to the
preparation of the loan, and was applied to four small programs. As part of the DPL, the costing
methodology was expanded and was to be applied to four large programs. The objective of the
new approach was to derive methodologically consistent data for future cash outflows.
24.       The development of costing methodologies for selected programs was initially produced
by two working groups and served as basis for the follow up work. These methodologies
included standard cost parameters, basic scenario analysis and expected costs on an annual basis
for at least the next three years. The methodology was to be applied to four major programs: the
Bilhete Único, Renda Melhor, Distribuição de Remédios, and Aluguel Social, during 2012. This
exercise was to provide the GORJ with a baseline for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of
expanding services and for increasing the predictability of budget and fiscal sustainability.
25.       Auditing and Internal Controls. Finally, the authorities initiated the modernization of
the internal control and audit system. Prior to the preparation of the DPL, the Auditoria Geral do
Estado (AGE), the agency responsible for internal control in the State, focused mainly on ex-post
reviews of accounting and procurement documents for actions already taken by a myriad of

1
 Including: Arco Metropolitano (R$230 million); Ampliação da Rede de Ensino (R$222 million); Ampliação da Via
Light (R$161 million); Conservação de Rodovias (R$133 million); Projeto Iguaçu (R$89 million); Projeto
Saneamento (R$80 million) projects.


                                                     5
entities and satellite State organizations. Essentially all of AGE’s work was compliance based
and had limited capacity to carry out risk-based, performance or value for money auditing. As
part of the preparation of the DPL, the Bank team helped the agency identify the process
required to modernize and shift its focus away from compliance to risk based performance audit.
26.      Prior to the approval of the DPL, the Government issued a new decree governing the
role of AGE and adopted associated initiatives, allowing the agency to rebuild its workforce and
to undertake a more effective work program. The decree created a new management and career
structure for the accounting and audit personnel of the State Government. It also established a
process for AGE to develop annual audit plans and report annually on its accomplishments. This
sub-component effectively helped change the focus and modus operandi of AGE.
27.      Policy Area 3 – Quality and Efficiency of Public Education and Health Services. The
final main component of the operation was to support important changes in the provision of
public services in education and health for lower income groups. The actions represented an
important change in the models for the provision of quality public services.
28.      Human Capital (Education). Improving education was a key element in the GORJ’s
agenda to promote social inclusion, labor productivity and growth. The Government wanted to
tackle poor educational outcomes and improve student learning through accountability reforms.
Rio had set an ambitious target of becoming one of Brazil’s five highest-performing states on the
Federal Government’s IDEB education quality index by 2013 (in contrast to 26th position or
second to last in 2009). To achieve this, the State Secretariat of Education had made some
progress prior to the loan preparation by building a solid administrative technical team and
developing a comprehensive reform agenda. This work was supported by the Bank through a
Technical Assistance Loan and a close working relationship among the teams. The reforms were
in line with global best practices and research on how to improve school systems. They started
with curriculum reform and changes in the training for teachers, and eventually included wider
management and governance reforms.
29.      The reforms had two important and overarching goals. The first was to raise the quality
and accountability of school managers. In January 2011, the State adopted legislation that
established new processes for the appointment of school district managers (regional directors)
and school directors. For the first time, these appointments were to be made through a
competitive selection process, and not through political appointments. The same legislation also
introduced the first-ever process of annual performance evaluation for regional and school
directors. These politically sensitive measures were expected to increase the transparency of the
selection processes and to upgrade the technical quality of the state’s top education managers.
30.       The second goal was to strengthen the incentives for schools to focus on results, with
the aim of improving the State’s low test scores and graduation rates. The Authorities introduced
in January 2011 annual school-level improvement targets and bonus pay linked to these results.
The State also adopted an annual learning assessment test, which was based upon the national
test, to monitor learning outcomes more effectively. The personnel in the schools that achieved at
least 90 percent of their targets received a salary bonus (of up to 25 percent of their annual
salary). The targets for each year are based on a linear projection of the improvement required at
the local level in order to raise the state’s overall national ranking.
31.    Health. The primary focus of health policy in the State was to improve the
management in the sector and increase its efficiency, while expanding the coverage and quality

                                                6
of services. To achieve these goals and to promote better governance, the GORJ introduced new
contract models based on payments for performance. The Government also sought to improve
the coordination between the primary health services and hospitals in small municipalities, by
setting-up better referral and counter-referral processes and by increasing the capacity of regional
hospitals to respond to more complex health care needs. In addition, the Government expanded
access to urgent and emergency care by extending the 24-hour emergency care unit (Unidade de
Pronto Atendimento–UPA) model beyond the Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region.
32.       The Government adopted foundational measures in the early phases of the reform
program. It created the legal framework for implementing new models of contracting for health
services from non-profit providers. In addition, it provided support and financial incentives for
hospitals in small municipalities in the interior to improve primary health care and the quality of
hospital care (PAHI1). It introduced incentives for regional hospitals to respond to medium and
high complexity care needs, including for patients from outside the municipality where the
hospital is located (PAHI2) 2 . Finally, it created the State Health Foundations to introduce
flexibility and strengthen performance orientation and accountability in the system.
33.       The phase of the program supported by current operation entailed the launching of
many complementary initiatives, particularly those of subcontracting social organizations
emergency local units and some public hospitals. This new management model was to provide
the state with increased flexibility to expand the supply of health care services and was expected
to stimulate innovation and improved efficiency in service delivery. In addition the DPL
supported improvement of the system of incentives to municipal governments and hospitals
under the Program to Support Hospitals in the Interior (PAHI1 and PAHI2). Specifically, new
regulations established indicators, administrative systems, and other operational features of the
program, with the aim to strengthen primary care and hospital services in small municipalities
(less than 115,000 population), and enhance the quality, efficiency and inter-municipal
coordination of medium- and high-complexity services provided by regional hospitals.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Program Performance
34.      This was a single-tranche operation which disbursed on effectiveness. All policy actions
required by the Loan Agreement and described in section 1.2 were met by GoRJ prior to
negotiations. The loan was approved by the Board on August 30, 2012 and signed on October
30 of the same year. Effectiveness was declared on November 16, 2012 and the project closed
according to its original schedule in January 31, 2014.
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation
35.      The implementation experience of this program was consistent with many similar
operations and reinforced lessons already learned. As with any set of comprehensive reforms,
implementation always poses a considerable challenge. This is more pronounced when the
program entails building institutional capacity in challenging environments. The implementation

2
 PAHI1 (Programa de Apoio aos Hospitais do Interior 1); PAHI2 (Programa de Apoio aos Hospitais do Interior
2) is dedicated to support improvements on management and infrastructure for regional state hospitals or those
hospitals with medium complexity covering more than one municipality according to the health regionalization plan
of the Rio de Janeiro State.



                                                       7
issues under the DPL III can be grouped into four different categories: (i) those of political
leadership, commitment, and personnel capacity; (ii) those of learning by doing; design updates,
and adjustment; (iii) those of unexpected developments, technical setbacks, and unrealistic
timetables; and (iv) those of technical assistance, close supervision and follow up.
36.      The success of the program in different areas was clearly associated with the
administrative capacity of individual agencies, the political leadership within those agencies, and
the degree of commitment and focus by the implementing agencies. The greatest
accomplishments occurred in those areas where the responsible authorities were confident on the
nature of the reforms and the goals to be attained, and were able to garner the full commitment of
the involved personnel to achieve the established results, and had adequate administrative
capacity. In all successful instances, the reforms were also central to the goals of the agencies.
This was most evident in the case of SEFAZ, where there was a strong commitment to
strengthen fiscal controls and improve tax administration, consistent with the design of the loan.
The same can be said about the reforms in education, where strong leadership provided guidance
to implement reforms that faced considerable political resistance. It took persistence in this case
to begin to ease opposition to the reforms.
37.       The most difficult area was the public investment program, where the institutional and
political economy constraints were quite significant. Both the Bank and the authorities
recognized this was a critical component, given the deficiencies in investment planning and cost
control. The Bank team noted the importance of introducing changes in the manner investments
were considered, selected, and funded over time. This was reflected in the proposal that five new
large investment proposals had to be reviewed under a new set of evaluative and screening rules.
The authorities agreed, but had reservations on the ability of the Government to carry out the
proposed reforms. They entailed a significant change in the operations of the investment agency
and the collaboration of powerful executing line agencies, as well as confronting strong political
interests and institutional constraints in a short period of time. Still, the authorities agreed to
developing a more coherent process, in part as a managerial strategy to promote changes in the
Secretariat of Planning and the line agencies, while recognizing that those were going to be
difficult to achieve.
38.      The actions in the investment and costing areas proved to be even more challenging
than expected. SEPLAG did not focus on implementing the new screening process, as day to
day responsibilities and budget execution trumped planning. The Secretariat has a mandate to
carry out investment decisions of the Government, and to ensure that proper financing be
available to the chosen projects. The GORJ did not take additional measures to ensure that the
Secretariat’s capacity was strengthened to properly evaluate proposed investments, which
emerged from powerful executing agencies. These agencies had greater capacity to promote and
obtain support for their investments. Furthermore, often the investments came with associated
financing that were outside the standard budget process. All of these factors contributed to
SEPLAG’s inability to achieve the expected results. In this component, clearly there was a need
to focus on strengthening the institutional capacity of the agency, before establishing goals that
required considerable cooperation and coordination with many other agencies in Government.
39.      Another important implementation issue was the adjustments made through a process of
learning by doing. In several areas of the program, there were adjustments made after the initial
measures were carried out. Many of these adjustments improved the program, especially in the
tax administration and health areas. Following the adoption of performance indicators in the tax

                                                8
area, staff was able to identify a number of measurements, practices, and procedures that needed
to be further reviewed. This led to an analysis of how they could be adjusted to improve tax
administration. The same was in the case of health, where the experience with the UPAs’
contracts led to a constant updating and adjustments of their content, and an application of a
similar approach to local hospital services, which had not been contemplated initially. Another
illustration of the learning by doing process was the expansion of the criteria and indicators used
to determine the incentives provided to hospitals. Initially, two basic indicators were included in
the operation (the introduction of ombudsman services and infection evaluation committees).
Soon after the loan was approved, the responsible staff for implementation recognized those
indicators were not sufficient to bring about the expected changes in hospital management, and
introduced other indicators to give financial recognition to hospitals for their efforts.
40.       All areas of the program confronted some unexpected events and a few areas some
technical setbacks. While not significant to derail any major part of the program, they introduced
some delays in implementation. This was present mostly in the areas that required gathering
information from different agencies, such as in the costing of expenditure programs and the
investment planning area, and areas that required introducing technically complex processes,
such as in the development of a taxpayer single account (or general ledger). The latter has been
difficult to construct and is not likely to reach its final stage until a year after the original
expected date. Just after the closing of the loan, the technical specifications of the proposed
ledger would be tested and validated. The final stage of making the information available to the
taxpayers still has to go through several steps, including a review of security considerations. The
anticipated results in this area did not foresee many of these implementation issues.
41.      Finally, the implementation experience clearly shows that a close engagement with the
authorities, either through technical assistance or close supervision, significantly increased the
chances of achieving the expected results. This is shown by the fact that in those areas where the
Bank had an ongoing technical assistance program closely aligned with the DPL, results
exceeded expectations. Nowhere is this more evident than in the education sector, where the
technical support predated the preparation of the DPL and continued during its implementation.
The same is the case, albeit to a lesser degree, with the engagement in the health sector. Whereas
in those areas where the Bank followed or assisted the Government less closely with the
implementation of the program, the results were mostly not satisfactory, especially in the area of
public investment management. Bank staff lacked resources (budget and time) to support closely
the actions by the Government and had to rely on the ability and willingness of the respective
agencies to reach the expected results. The same Bank staff were also tasked with the preparation
of new operations (in Rio and elsewhere), thus diverting some of their focus from
implementation support. A closer engagement with the implementing agencies could have
prompted earlier corrective actions and ensure better performance.
42.      Still, the assessment of the program’s implementation experience is positive, since it
hinges on measuring the degree of accomplishment against the expected outcomes. Most goals
were achieved, and the results were essentially according to plans. The preponderance of the
positive results reaching or surpassing the original goals substantiates the generally positive
evaluation of the program.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
43.     The monitoring and evaluation of the program was based on the expected results for
each component. Those results were fairly detailed and had specific dates attached to them to
                                                9
follow the achievements under the program. There was, however, no formal M&E arrangement
for the whole operation. While the authorities formed an ad-hoc committee within SEFAZ to
monitor the actions agreed under the loan, the group worked mostly to satisfy the needs of the
periodic supervision missions of the Bank. There were dedicated groups that closely monitored
the advances of the reforms in the Education and health sectors, but those were essentially set up
for implementation purposes. In the education sector, there are ongoing impact evaluations
supported by the Technical Assistance that are expected to provide additional information on the
results from implementing a new management model and results-based pay in secondary
education. A closer scrutiny and monitoring of the actions of those responsible for carrying out
the measures agreed under the program could have helped the program performance.
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation
44.       The Bank is providing continued support for the implementation of reforms in the major
areas of the DPLIII. This is occurring through a follow up operation, DPL IV (Enhancing Public
Management for Service Delivery) and two Technical Assistance Loans. The new DPL operation
is assisting the GORJ to enhance public management for the delivery of key public services for
vulnerable populations by instituting new policies and regulations to improve: the medium term
planning and monitoring of public expenditures (Policy Area 1); the accessibility, quality and
affordability of urban mobility services for the poor (Policy Area 2); and the availability of
targeted social services aimed at reducing domestic and gender based violence (Policy Area 3).
45.      The Bank also has two Technical Assistance Loans in place—Public Sector
Modernization and Strengthening Public Management and Integrated Territorial Development.
They support the GORJ’s efforts with performance-based management, and the introduction of
information technologies aimed at improving service delivery in key areas, including secondary
education and hospital care. The loans are also supporting the modernization of the tax
administration and public finance management.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
46.       The objectives of the loan were and continue to be highly relevant for improving the
public administration in the State of Rio. The objectives were consistent with the Government’s
reform program, but also with the identified needs of the State in important areas of the public
sector. The relevance is enhanced by the continuity of the program. Consistency in pursuing
different phases of the reform over an extended period adds to the significance of the program.
Furthermore, many of the objectives entailed fundamental changes in the operation of the
sectors, in the way that resources are allocated, incentives are structured, performance is
evaluated, and services are rewarded. One of the most important aspects in terms of both
objectives and design was the expansion of the use of indicators and modern management
methods.
47.       The design of the program was also very relevant for achieving the expected results,
focusing mostly on the policies and measures that were critical to the success of the
Government’s reform program. It ensured continuity and furthered the transformation of key
areas of public administration. Even in the investment area, where there was recognition that the
program was quite ambitious, there was a need to promote reforms, given the critical role of
better investment planning for the budget process.


                                               10
48.      Implementation did not match the ambition of the design, but can still be considered
good, particularly when evaluated from the perspective of the achievements under the overall
program. There were considerable efforts to focus actions on the most important components,
and the result was, on balance, very positive. Fundamental reforms were undertaken in the
education area, substantial improvements were made in tax collection, there were some gains in
the efficacy of tax administration, and important performance based management tools in both
the health and education sector were adopted. The major shortcoming remains in the area of
public financial management, particularly as it pertains to investment decisions.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
49.       Achievement of the PDO as a whole is rated moderately satisfactory, as most of the
results indicators were achieved or exceeded their targets. This is a weighted rating, which takes
into consideration the importance of the achievements in key service areas, such as Education, as
compared to the disappointing progress in some parts of the public financial management area. A
very significant part of the reform program was successfully implemented. The operation
identified 15 specific results and outcome indicators to be achieved by the end of 2013. Ten of
those were fully met; three were mostly achieved; and two failed to satisfy basic expectations.
The achievements were most significant in the education and health sectors, as well as in tax
administration. Results failed to meet initial expectations primarily in the public investment
program.
50.       The positive evaluation of the program is also based on the consistency and persistence
of the reforms over an extended period of time. In this context, the DPL should be seen as part of
a sequence of operations supporting earlier phases of the reform program. The current operation
continued these achievements by supporting deeper, and in some cases more significant, reforms.
Policy Area 1 – Efficiency of Tax Administration.
Rating: Satisfactory
51.       The overall rating for this policy area is based on the fulfillment of the original
objective, which was to strengthen and increase the efficiency of the tax administration, to raise
additional resources, and maintain a solid fiscal position. The State improved on all fronts. The
rating is reinforced by the fact that in two of the sub-components (revenue generation and the
introduction of performance indicators) the achievements exceeded the expectations established
at the time of the loan preparation. In the third sub-component (the establishment of a general tax
payer ledger), delays revealed the difficulties of introducing such an extensive administrative
reform, when both political and technical factors can alter the best plans.
52.       Tax Revenues. Performance in this sub-component was highly satisfactory. The final
revenue figures for both ICMS and ITD exceeded the 2013 targets by 8.4 and 41.8 percent points
respectively. The initial targets, following a correction of the baseline, were for increases of 15.6
percent for ICMS and 12.4 percent for ITD. The good performance was due to both internal
actions taken to improve tax collections and external developments, including the rise in food
prices and higher vehicle sales. These developments offset the lower than expected revenues in
other areas such as the electricity sector, where the authorities expanded exemptions. It is
difficult at this stage to determine the extent to which the increase in revenues was due to the tax
collection measures or simply better economic conditions. The actions aimed at improving the
efficacy, effectiveness and efficiency of tax collection are in their early stages. It will take time
for them to be fully operational and to show solid results. The initial targets for increasing ICMS

                                                 11
and ITD considered some gains in the efficacy of tax administration, but those cannot be
substantiated with the current information. A proper analysis of the impact of efficiency
improvements in tax collection would require knowing the initial assumptions and calculating
the effects of unexpected economic developments, data that is not available for the preparation of
the report.
53.       General Tax Payer Ledger. The result of this prior action was expected to be the
establishment of a unified general taxpayer ledger by the end of 2013 that would be available to
individual taxpayers online, as the final result of a broader process of improving and upgrading
the tax collection systems, called Gestão do Crédito Tributário (GCT). Its achievement can be
considered moderately satisfactory. The program required advancing through a series of
sequential steps before the ledger could be fully operational, which took longer and proved more
difficult to effect than initially anticipated. The platform and information consolidation has been
accomplished, and the authorities are now entering the stage of testing and certifying the
technical adequacy of the new system. It is not yet certain when the ledger will become fully
operational. The tentative date is the beginning of 2015. The ledger will first be used internally to
analyze the tax situation of individual business entities. The slippage in the calendar is also
explained by unanticipated events, such as changes in tax laws that demanded urgent changes in
many systems and caused the pace of GCT project to be significantly slowed.
54.       Tax Administration Performance Indicators. The sequenced introduction of
performance indicators was carried out as envisaged. The final batch of indicators was done in
March of 2014. The last phase occurred a bit later than expected, but the delay, due mostly to
personnel changes, did not affect the overall thrust of the program. Hence this sub-component is
considered satisfactory. Overall, SEFAZ’s experience with the indicators has been positive.
Their introduction has led to a better understanding of the deficiencies in the processes and also
to an adjustment in their management. The simple act of collecting information prompted the
authorities to investigate the factors behind certain outcomes and to adopt measures to improve
the results. However, most of the indicators are geared towards looking at the efficacy of the tax
administration. They are internally oriented and tend to focus on administrative enforcement;
few measure efficiency and effectiveness, particularly in terms of the quality of client services.
The indicators were constructed depending on the availability of data and administrative
demands, and are now being organized according to the logic of administrative procedures. The
calculation and the disclosure of the indicators remain restricted to a small group within SEFAZ.
There seems to be room to improve in both of these areas, by automating the calculations, and
making them more broadly available to all tax administration employees. In addition, there are
benefits to creating formal arrangements such as regular high level meetings to discuss the
indicator outcomes, and defining appropriate actions.
Policy Area 2 - Improving the Efficiency of Public Financial Management
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
55.      The evaluation of results under this policy area is heavily influenced by the failure to
achieve the original goals in one important area, not necessarily the progress that has been made
in each sub-component. As a whole, there have been improvements in the public financial
management of the state, in part due to actions contemplated under the loan. But those actions
yielded results well below expectations, and failed to reach a key goal of the reform program.



                                                 12
The shortcomings were most pronounced in the public investment area and to a minor extent in
the costing of Government programs.
56.       The failure to properly establish an investment review, screening and selection process
implies a major gap in the Government’s ability to improve its fiscal management. The measures
in this area were critical for the broader objective of the operation, which was to solidify fiscal
control. The overall achievements in this policy area are in the right direction, but they fall short
of expectations and much remains to be done in this area.
57.      Public Investment Management. The implementation of this sub-component was
under the purview of the State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAG), which has considerable
responsibilities for administering the information of a large and diverse public investment
portfolio. The reforms supported by the loan anticipated a significant change in the manner in
which proposed investments, particularly large ones, were considered by the agency. The
program not only attempted to change the procedures for reviewing, evaluating and selecting
investments, but also introduced a pilot program, where 5 new investment proposals would be
assessed under the new procedures. However, for the 2013 budget only 3 new investment
proposals were identified and subjected to the proposed process. The evaluation was done only
ex-post and was not included in the ordinary budget process, thereby defeating the purpose. The
objective became a mere bureaucratic obligation. The proposed methodology was not
incorporated into the 2014 budget cycle. SEFAZ introduced a parallel process to calculate
possible future commitments emerging from maintenance and operational costs. The duplication
of efforts shows the importance of improving the process and garnering greater support from
SEPLAG and improving cross-agency cooperation. The achievements under this sub-component
are considered unsatisfactory.
58.       Costing of Programs. Most of the targets under this sub-component were achieved,
but overall the effort fell short of the broader goal of analyzing the cost-effectiveness of the
programs. The efforts to estimate the costs of four large public programs helped the authorities to
gain a better understanding of the features of those programs. With the analysis, SEFAZ was
able to link the costs of the programs to the number of beneficiaries, and begin to identify the
factors, such as eligibility criteria, that could drive future expenditures. This provided important
information and was a first step in developing the required budget tools for improved
management of the programs.
59.       Despite the achievements, however, the initiative is not yet an effective tool of budget
analysis. The costing only covered actual expenditures and number of beneficiaries. There are no
well-developed projections of future costs. There are also no means to undertake a cost-benefit
analysis, given the lack of information on benefits provided. Officials recognized many of these
shortcomings, and are hoping that the technical assistance provided by the Bank will spur
advancements in the application of the methodology. Finally, there is the important issue of
transparency, which was to be addressed by the publication of the estimates and analysis. The
costing reports were not made available beyond the working group, due to delays in obtaining
and refining the information needed to produce the report. The authorities, however, reaffirmed
their commitment to make the report public after it is finalized. As a whole, therefore, the sub-
component can be classified as being moderately satisfactory.
60.      Internal Audit Agency and Controls. This sub-component proceeded according to
plan, and its achievements were satisfactory. The measures taken included: developing an annual

                                                 13
plan of action and reporting on their accomplishments; issuing key audit regulations; training
additional staff; creating an internal career plan; and hiring a new cadre of younger professional
auditors. In addition, staff has been decentralized to the executing agencies. New procedures
have been established to create oversight on the basis of results and ex-ante procedures, moving
away from ex-post reviews. These are the first steps in a long and slow process of incorporating
modern audit and accounting systems in the State Government.
Policy Area 3 - Quality and Efficiency of Public Education and Health Services
Rating: Satisfactory
61.        Education Sector. The reforms undertaken in this area were quite significant, and all of
the expected results have been fully met. Hence, the achievements under this sub-component can
be considered highly satisfactory. The core elements of the program were designed to change the
incentive structure for educators and school administrators, with the purpose of improving
student learning performance and reducing repetition and drop-out rates. Administratively, the
Education Secretariat was able to appoint all new regional directors under a competitive system,
along with 15 percent of all school directors in the first three years. The Secretariat also
streamlined the regional structures, consolidating 30 regional supervisor positions into 14 new
districts, reducing the number of regional directors by more than half. To signal a stronger focus
on school quality and student learning results, the Secretariat created a new position of regional
pedagogical supervisor. On incentives, all schools received individual performance targets. More
importantly, the staff in about 30 percent of the schools received bonuses for meeting their
targets. The bonuses were substantial, amounting to approximately 25 percent of the annual
salaries. The number of schools achieving 80 percent of their annual targets, and therefore
receiving bonuses, increased by 23 percent in comparison with the first year.
62.      These reforms were politically sensitive and required considerable determination to
carry out. The authorities had to overcome opposition from many groups, particularly those who
benefited from the previous arrangements, and had to be convincing to overcome doubts about
targets and bonuses based on standardized tests. Given this environment, the achievements under
the program are even more noteworthy. While it is early to assess the overall improvement in the
quality of education in the State, very preliminary indications show an impressive rise in the
State’s ranking for secondary education quality, going from 26th in 2009 to 15th in the latest
national IDEB scale; one of the largest improvements of any state. Results have consistently
improved in the annual Index of Educational Development of the State of Rio de Janeiro as well.
Crucially, there are indications that governance changes are being accepted, and a new culture
focused on results has taken hold among school leaders and administrators. Among other
innovations, the Secretary of Education introduced meetings of the entire state leadership team
(approximately 600 state and district level administrators) every six months to review progress
against district goals, to highlight progress and disseminate lessons from the principals of schools
that have made exceptional gains, and to develop strategies for intensive support to schools with
low performance. While the teachers’ strike for a 19-percent wage increase in late 2013 are
expected to have a negative effect on the State’s results in the 2013 IDEB (to be released in
August 2014), they are unlikely to offset the substantial improvements registered since 2010.
63.      Health Sector Reforms. The achievements in this area were also satisfactory.
Essentially all but one of the expected results was achieved. The primary focus of health policy
in the State was to improve the management in the sector and increase its efficiency, including

                                                14
expanding coverage and improving services. In the area of contracting social organizations (OS)
to manage emergency services, the Government exceeded the targets, and now has 30 UPAs
under contract, as compared to the 22 originally expected by this time. The process of
contracting service providers has dramatically changed the modus-operandi of the Secretariat of
Health, which is now much more focused on contract management than oversight of direct
provision of services. In fact, management contracts have now been extended to some local
hospitals, which were not planned initially. Contracts still need to be improved, in areas such as
reimbursement for performance targets instead of the cost for providing services. But, still
significant progress has been made. The goals on referrals and coordination of treatment were
also achieved. More than 25 percent of complex treatments handled by regional hospitals were
for patients outside the immediate jurisdiction.
64.       Finally, the Government has successfully handled the PAHI program, which provides
financial support to hospitals that are managing patient care according to certain targets and
indicators. Initially, the DPL operation focused on two indicators to gauge progress; the number
of hospitals that adopted an ombudsman program to review patient treatment, and the number of
hospitals with an infection evaluation committee. The number of ombudsman has been met, but
the created committees were found not to be very effective in achieving their goals. Because they
did not operate as expected, the Government expanded the indicators for this purpose, to include
hygiene standards and hospital waste disposal, among others. The broader approach served to
accomplish the goals initially established for the committees and a better indicator to track
results than the original one. While there are preliminary indications of improvement in hospital
disease management, those are not readily and consistently available for outside evaluation. A
new monitoring system is under implementation as part of the first Technical Assistance Loan to
address this gap.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
65.       The justification for the overall rating is based on the magnitude of the program and the
results achieved. As noted in section 2.1, the operation supported reforms in important areas of
the public sector in the State of Rio de Janeiro. Two thirds of the target results were fully met.
While the results were not uniform, the main achievements, particularly in the education sector
and to some extent in health and tax administration, were significant and likely to be sustained.
These results offset any shortcomings in other areas, such as public investment.
66.       The operation was well designed to help launch a new phase of reforms that included
some noteworthy changes in the nature of key public sector programs. While the overall
approach was to strengthen results-based management, the more immediate achievement was to
help personnel to focus on targets, to review processes and procedures, and to improve service
delivery. More importantly, the program helped set up new incentive structures that over time
could help change the culture within certain sectors. Many of the initiatives helped to build the
institutional structure of the State Government and are likely to continue in the future.
67.       The positive evaluation of the entire program is also based on the consistency and
persistency of the reforms over an extended period of time. As noted, the operation was part of a
series of loans that ensure the continuity of the reform process in Rio. Even in those areas where
the outcomes were not as good as expected, such as with the public investment program, the
continuous involvement and inclusion of the issues on the debate with the authorities raised their

                                                15
profile and led to some improvements. Better management of the public investment remains a
critical issue for the State Government and still need to be addressed.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
68.      The evaluation of the main beneficiaries of the reforms supported by the DPL was quite
extensive and thorough. It showed that those in the lower quintiles of the income distribution and
the most vulnerable groups in society would be the main beneficiaries from the reforms and the
improvement in the service delivery attained in education and health. It is not possible to validate
these assertions ex-post, given the early stage of the reform process. The information for a
deeper analysis is not available at this time, although an impact evaluation is underway in the
education sector. But, it is safe to assert that the reforms should have a positive social impact,
given the characteristics of the primary users of the public services being reformed.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
69.       Unquestionably, the operation has contributed to build the institutional capacity of the
GORJ. In some cases, such as in the education sector, this has been done with the close
assistance of the Bank. In other cases, this has taken place through a process of learning by
doing, as the executing agencies carry out the reforms aimed at achieving the targets established
under the program. Furthermore some of the changes, such as in the adoption of the contracting
for services in the health sector, led to a change in the focus of the agency away from direct
provision of services toward oversight and enforcement of contracts. In the case of tax
administration, the institutional strengthening (which was initiated in earlier operations) is taking
place in part through the adoption of performance indicators. These have highlighted a number
of issues and provided new insights about operational efficiency. With the new information, staff
are now reviewing processes and procedures in order to improve institutional efficiency. Finally,
the most important change is taking place through the incentive structures that are being
introduced in the education and health sectors. They are leading to a new culture of focusing on
targets, and being remunerated accordingly. Still, one of the most evident lessons from the
operation is that creating institutional capacity is a slow methodical process that requires
considerable persistence and close support from principals, which was not always present.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes
Rating: Moderate
70.      The second term of the current administration is coming to an end in 2014 and there are
some reversal risks. This is particularly the case in the area of tax and costing of programs where
the policy changes were instituted through directives and have not been fully consolidated.
Continued strong leadership at the executive level and focus on seeing through the reforms
taking place would be critical to preserve the gains made.
71.      Conditions are more positive, however, in the education and health sectors where the
changes are taking root and their benefits are becoming more apparent. This is particularly the
case for those involved in the service provision, who are now benefitting from additional
financial incentives. The reforms have built constituencies that have an interest in the
continuation of the programs. The cultural change taking place is an element that should reduce
the possibilities of reversal. A similar development is taking place in the Secretariat of Health,
where the new focus on oversight of contracts is seen by staff as a much better use of their

                                                 16
talents. The same can be said for the introduction of new systems, processes and procedures in
tax administration and internal audit. The staff responsible for the introduction of these new
tools is already developing follow up improvements. All these factors contribute to making more
difficult to reverse the policies and return to the previous management practices.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
72.      As noted in Section 2.1, the Bank worked closely with the GORJ during the preparation
of the loan, providing important advisory support in the design of the program. The Bank also
worked to ensure timely financing. The time-frame for the preparation of the loan was driven in
great part by the financing plan of the Government.
73.       The preparation of the loan and the design of the program benefitted enormously from
the experience of both the Authorities and Bank staff. Both sides understood the challenges of
the program and generally agreed on the follow up measures needed to accelerate the process.
There were solid diagnostics of the existing conditions and very good analysis of required
policies. The Bank had a group of dedicated professionals for each area, and also brought top
experts to discuss the experiences of other states and countries. The advice was followed in some
areas more than others. For example, the modernization of the audit agency continues to date
according to initial recommendations. In the health component, an important recommendation
was to develop an information system with cost standards for service providers (a dashboard
with scorecards). This has yet to be done, in part because of magnitude of the task and the
technical challenges. But it reveals the breadth of the advice provided during preparation. The
experience with the DPL underscores the fact that programs are more likely to succeed when
there are high level professional teams involved in the design stage.
74.       There was also sufficient preparation time to develop a sound program. Initial
discussions on the nature of a loan began in late 2010 and pre-appraisal missions formally began
in the later part of 2011. These involved both sides and resulted in detailed sector background
information and indicator monitoring data. In particular, the World Bank technical staff helped
assess the proposed policy actions against international best practices. They also carried out a
thorough review of the fiscal situation of the State and a beneficiary analysis.
75.      The evaluation of the Bank’s performance during preparation is partially affected by the
adoption of ambitious targets for some parts of the program. The Bank team promoted strong
measures and bold goals, in part to propel the executing agencies to move expeditiously and also
to strengthen the quality of the program. In most instances, such as in education, this approach
was successful, whereas in others, such as in the goals for the investment reforms, it failed. The
final decision to have ambitious targets fell to the central authorities, who understood the
challenges that the line agencies would confront. It was based on a calculus that setting
ambitious goals would drive actions. It turned out that without the proper political support,
leadership, and technical assistance the goals were simply not achievable. Bank staff recognized
that agencies needed more time and assistance to proceed with the basic elements of the reforms,
but was not able to provide it uniformly because of staff and budget restrictions.

                                               17
76.       Nevertheless, the Bank team responded to the client’s needs, with timely financing and
advice; it was an adequate and timely response to the challenges faced by the GORJ. The actions
ensured continuity and the adoption of measures that will have lasting impact, particularly on the
provision of and management of public services.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
77.       While Bank support and involvement during the preparation was highly significant,
more resources and staff time would have improved outcomes. The loan established a period of
18 months to meet the targets. This provided a short window for the Government to demonstrate
results. During that time there were (two) full formal supervision missions, which were mainly
geared at obtaining information on the advances being made. Only in a few areas did the Bank
accompany closely the progress of the implementation of the program and assisted the
authorities on a continuous basis. In many other areas, such as with tax administration and public
investment, the Bank did not have a close presence. The missions were able to ascertain the
progress made, but did not have the resources (time and budget) to engage closely with the
authorities and help develop remedial measures or assist with the details of implementation.
More could have been achieved with closer supervision.
78.       The rating here is not necessarily based on the effort by Bank staff or for that matter the
quality of the dialogue with the authorities. Instead, it is a reflection of the fact that supervision
of a single tranche loan disbursed on the basis of prior actions does not carry the same priority to
Management as other loans. The nature of the supervision per se is different, simply to monitor
results. But, the needs under the loan were also to help build the institutional capacity, which
required a much stronger focus on the processes and procedures, not just the results.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
79.      Bank guidelines suggest that a moderately satisfactory in one of the dimensions of Bank
performance, should automatically translate also into a moderately satisfactory rating for the
overall Bank performance. This presupposes that each dimension, quality at entry and
supervision, should carry similar weight. While the guidelines are followed here, it should be
noted that in this operation, as in many other single tranche loans with short periods of execution,
supervision is not a major element of the Bank’s involvement. Most of the work by the Bank in
this operation took place as part of an on-going dialogue with the GORJ as part of other loans,
and not so much as part of the supervision of this particular operation. Hence, when considering
the total effort and involvement by the Bank, perhaps greater weight should be given to
preparation and design.
80.      The Bank involvement and support to the State under this operation was very sound. It
assisted the State to deepen a reform process that improved many aspects of the public
administration in the GORJ. The Bank has maintained a close policy dialogue with the State, and
has developed follow up operations that will ensure continuity in the process. The Bank is
committed with technical assistance to help build the institutional capacity of many agencies.
The only aspect that detracts, from an otherwise, very good performance is the constraint faced
by the public sector and fiscal teams to be even more closely engaged during the implementation.



                                                 18
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
81.       The government’s performance is evaluated on the basis of the strength of the program,
the breadth of the results achieved, and the role of different agencies involved in the process.
The reforms entailed significant efforts to improve the managerial capacity, to build better
information systems, to confront political opposition, to change the modus operandi of certain
sectors, and to build a better institutional structure. Nevertheless, the Government’s performance
was uneven. It varied by agency and different areas of intervention, hence the moderate rating.
Still, on the whole there was an important advancement that reflects on the commitment by the
Authorities to the overall objectives of the operation.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
82.      While there were several agencies responsible for individual components of the
program, formally SEFAZ was the coordinating agency. SEFAZ demonstrated very strong
leadership and cooperation throughout preparation and implementation of the program. It
administered the improvements in tax administration. It also followed the actions of the other
agencies and spurred their greater involvement in the program. AGE, the audit agency,
systematically pursued its modernization plan and begun to change its oversight approach. Many
of the other agencies performed well, broadly in accordance with expectations, except the
Secretariat of Planning, as explained in more detail in section 3.2. The Secretariat of Education
exceeded expectations by assiduously executing a far reaching program that had detractors and
required leadership. The Secretariat of Health embraced the program under its purview and
dedicated considerable efforts to performance based management, leading to the UPA and PAHI
programs meeting their targeted results. SEPLAG had challenges carrying out the expected
reforms of the public investment program. The agency has remained more focused on its
considerable day-to-day responsibilities of administering the investment program, and did not
devote the time to develop the information and procedures expected under the reform program.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
83.      The overall performance is deemed as moderately satisfactory as a result of the
shortcomings in the implementation of the program. Despite the moderate rating, the
achievements by the Borrower should be recognized, given the scope of the reforms pursued and
the number of targets met. The operation signified an important effort to accelerate the reforms
started earlier, and demonstrated a commitment to show much better results, particularly in
service provision. While the execution was somewhat uneven, the aggregate effort was
significant and merits recognition.
6. Lessons Learned
84.      There are a number of lessons under this operation that reinforce those learned in
similar programs. The implementation experience with the DPL highlights the importance of the
quality of personnel capacity, of learning by doing, of design updates, dealing with technical



                                               19
setbacks, and the need for technical assistance and close supervision. Here, only three key
lessons are noted.
85.       The first is the importance of considering the dynamics of the political economy of
reforms in establishing performance targets, even when dealing with individual executing
agencies. This was most evident in the establishment of ambitious targets for parts of the
program, such as in the investment area. The Bank felt it was important for the planning
secretariat to show improved results in the identification, selection and tracking of investment
projects. The lead agency negotiating the loan, SEFAZ, also had a particular interest in agreeing
with those targets. This approach was seen as means to induce the line agency to make greater
efforts in handling the evaluation of public investments. All parties recognized, however, that
without greater political leadership and without greater commitment by all involved agencies,
those goals had little chance of being achieved. The decision to proceed, despite considerable
evidence of the political roadblocks, proved to be over ambitious. The goals were not fulfilled
and little progress has been made to date. In retrospect, it might have been better to help build the
institutional capacity of the agency through other means.
86.      Conversely, in those areas where there was clear leadership and commitment to the
reforms, the program achieved much greater success. The greatest accomplishments occurred in
those areas where the responsible authorities were able to garner the full commitment of the
involved personnel to achieve the established results. In all successful instances, the reforms
were also central to the goals of the agencies.
87.       The second main lesson concerns building institutional capacity. Successful public
sector reforms are often accompanied by measures to create stronger institutions. This includes
both better organizational structures and incentives frameworks. The DPL was a good example
of the importance of institution building. Those areas that saw sustained improvements, such as
in education, introduced new incentive systems and more importantly new methods for
improving service provision. The same occurred, but to a lesser extent in the health sector. The
shift to a system of contracts for urgent care services transformed not only the service provision
but also the Secretariat of Health, which is now much more focused on supervising the contracts
and following up on the standards of hospital services.
88.       Another example along the same lines is the modernization process that is just starting
in AGE. There is a new vision on the role of the agency and the manner in which it can perform
its tasks, away from ex-post compliance reviews to much more significant ex-ante risk based
standard setting tasks. In general, the areas of success under the DPL program where those that
saw improvements in their institutional capacity. Improvements occurred through the methodical
introduction of new incentives and slow changes in behavior that helped to create a new culture
in the institutions and the acceptance of modernization processes. As in most cases,
implementation could have been better if there were greater focus and resources to assist in
institutional strengthening, including through supervision. Achievements were more limited in
those areas where institutional deficiencies were not addressed. The experience shows that
greater focus and resources to assist in institutional strengthening remains a key to development,
particularly as it pertains to public sector reforms.
89.      Finally, one last important lesson is the value of consistency and persistency in the
reform process. The DPL was the result of a long engagement with the State of Rio, as well as
the city of Rio. The engagement occurred through the preparation and supervision of several

                                                 20
operations that focused generally in the same areas. This helped to build expertise and
knowledge through a process of learning by doing, which proved to be critical. This knowledge
not only applied to the design of the programs and the adjustment to measures over time, but
equally as important to overcome the resistance to reforms. It was through a slow and methodical
process of trial and error along with showing and explaining that changes are eventually being
accepted. The focus on results-based management also helped to make the merits of the reforms
more transparent. The continuous engagement by the Bank and the persistency of the Authorities
to pursue key reforms contributed significantly to build a solid basis for future, and to make the
program a relative success.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

90.       No issues were raised. The GoRJ formally agreed with the ratings and provided
editorial comments that have been incorporated in the final version of the report.
(b) Cofinanciers N/A
(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders NA




                                               21
Annexes
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team Members
                                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                              Title                   Unit
                                                                                Specialty

Lending

Barbara Bruns                Lead Education Economist               LCSHE   Education
Andre C. Medici              Sr Economist (Health)                  LCSHH   Health
Alberto Coelho Gomes Costa   Senior Social Development Specialist   LCSSO   Social
                                                                            Development
Pablo Fajnzylber             Sector Manager, PREM                   AFTP2   Economic Policy
Joseph Kizito Mubiru         Lead Financial Management              LCSFM   Financial
                             Specialist                                     Management
Yaye Seynabou Sakho          Adviser                                MDI     Economic Policy
Mariana Margarita Montiel    Senior Counsel                         LEGLE   Legal
Patricia Miranda             Senior Counsel                         LEGOP   Legal
Magnus Lindelow              Sector Leader                          LCSHD   Human
                                                                            Development
Roland N. Clarke             Lead Economist and Sector Leader,      LCSPR   Public Sector
                             PREM                                           Governance
Maria Florencia Liporaci     Senior Program Assistant               MNSSD   Program Assistant
Fanny Weiner                 Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.              LCSPS   Public Sector
                                                                            Governance
Edith Kikoni                 Economist                              LCSPE   Economic Policy
Flavia Nahmias da Silva      Program Assistant                      ECRBX   Program Assistant
Gomes

Claudia Rocio Manrique                                              LCSPS   Program Assistant
Cindy Audiguier                                                     LCSPE   Economic Policy
Rafael Chelles Barroso       Economist                              LCSPE   Economic Policy
Ezau Pontes                  Senior Health Specialist               LCSHH   Health
Rogerio Bianchi Santarrosa                                          LCSPP   Poverty
Fabio Sola Bittar            Research Analyst                       LCC5C   Economic Policy
Leandro Oliveira Costa       Economist                              LCSHE   Education
Ana Mie Horigoshi Reis       Junior Professional Associate          LCSPS   Public Sector
                                                                            Governance
Supervision

Barbara Bruns                Lead Education Economist               LCSHE   Education
Andre C. Medici              Sr Economist (Health)                  LCSHH   Health
Mariana Margarita Montiel    Senior Counsel                         LEGLE   Legal
Patricia Miranda             Senior Counsel                         LEGOP   Legal
Magnus Lindelow              Sector Leader                          LCSHD   Human
                                                                            Development
Roland N. Clarke             Lead Economist and Sector Leader,      LCSPR   Public Sector

                                              22
                               PREM                                               Governance
 Maria Florencia Liporaci      Senior Program Assistant                 MNSSD     Program Assistant
 Fanny Weiner                  Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.                LCSPS     Public Sector
                                                                                  Governance
 Edith Kikoni                  Economist                                LCSPE     Economic Policy
 Flavia Nahmias da Silva       Program Assistant                        ECRBX     Program Assistant
 Gomes

 Claudia Rocio Manrique        Program Assistant                        LCSPS     Program Assistant
 Cindy Audiguier               Consultant                               LCSPE     Economic Policy
 Laura De Castro Zoratto       Economist                                LCSPS     Public Sector
                                                                                  Governance
 Rafael Chelles Barroso        Economist                                LCSPE     Economic Policy
 Ezau Pontes                   Senior Health Specialist                 LCSHH     E T Consultant
 Ana Mie Horigoshi Reis        Junior Professional Associate            LCSPS     Public Sector
                                                                                  Governance
 Angela Nieves Marques Porto E T Temporary                              LCSPS     E T Temporary
 Eduardo Somensatto          Consultant                                 LCSPS     Economic Policy
 Lorena Viñuela              Public Sector Specialist                   LCSPS     Public Sector
                                                                                  Governance


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
               Stage                                                     US$ Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)

Lending

                             Total:                             79.09                    286,513.80

Supervision/ICR

                             Total:                             19.56                     59,625.87




                                                23
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                      24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                        25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
The GoRJ formally agreed with the ratings and provided editorial comments that have been
incorporated in the final version of the report.




                                           26
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                         27
Annex 6: Recent Operations in Rio de Janeiro
         While not a formal programmatic series, the sequence of loans that supported different
phases of the reform process and the nature of the continuous policy dialogue essentially makes
the operations a quasi-programmatic series. Details are available in Table A.1.
The first State DPL (Fiscal Sustainability, Human Development, and Competitiveness DPL–
P117244) was approved in February 2010. The first DPL was done partially in response to the
crisis when the Government was concerned that the fall in revenues could destabilize the overall
reform agenda by jeopardizing financing for the health and education programs. It focused on
the initial GORJ efforts to improve fiscal management, competitiveness, and social service
delivery. The first DPL established the basis for the current operation by supporting earlier
measures to consolidate the fiscal position, improve the efficiency of tax administration,
strengthen budget procedures and financial management, and raise the quality and efficiency of
the education system, along with increasing access to health services.
The Second State DPL (Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Urban and Housing Development Policy
Loan – P122391), approved in March 2011, was in part a response to the natural disasters from
heavy rains, which highlighted the issue of urban housing. The operation was designed to
support the GORJ to strengthen its policies for planning and managing territorial growth in the
Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Region, and promoting the provision of affordable housing.
The third DPL built and deepened the work started under the first DPL by addressing the same
broad areas of fiscal reform, health, and education. The operation was also accompanied by
important technical assistance, for example in the education area, and by knowledge services, in
both the health and fiscal areas. This DPL helped the Government launch an important new
phase of reforms.
The Bank’s involvement with the GORJ was also strengthened by the close working relationship
it had developed with the Municipality of Rio de Janeiro and its work with other states in Brazil.
The Bank had a similar operation with the Municipality of Rio that focused on many of the areas
that formed part of the State’s DPLIII. The experience of working at the municipal level
revealed the importance of coordinating the reforms at different levels of government and
contributed to identifying the measures that needed to be taken by the State to improve the joint
provision of public services, such as in the health and education sectors.
The Bank is providing continued support for the implementation of reforms in the major areas of
the DPLIII. This is occurring through a follow up operation, DPL IV (Enhancing Public
Management for Service Delivery) and two Technical Assistance Loans. The new DPL operation
is assisting the GORJ to enhance public management for the delivery of key public services for
vulnerable populations by instituting new policies and regulations to improve: the medium term
planning and monitoring of public expenditures (Policy Area 1); the accessibility, quality and
affordability of urban mobility services for the poor (Policy Area 2); and the availability of
targeted social services aimed at reducing domestic and gender based violence (Policy Area 3).
The Bank also has two Technical Assistance Loans in place (Public Sector Modernization and
Strengthening Public Management and Integrated Territorial Development) to support the GORJ
to support performance-based management and introduce information technologies to drive
service delivery improvements in key public services, including secondary education and
hospital care. As well, the loans are supporting modernization of the tax administration and
public finance management.

                                               28
                                                      Table A.1: Rio de Janeiro Operations, 2009-2013
                2009                       2010                     2011                     2012                       2013                     2014

CPS 2012-       DPL 1                      TAL (P106768)            DPL 2                    DPL 3 (P106465)            DPL 4 (P147695)          TAL II (P126735)
2015 Priority
Areas           Fiscal Sustainability,     Public Sector            Metropolitan Urban and   Fiscal Efficiency for      Enhancing Public         Strengthening Public
                Human Development          Modernization            Housing                  Quality of Public          Management For           Management and
                and Competitiveness                                                          Service Delivery           Service Delivery         Integrated Territorial
                                           (US$ 18.6 million)       (US$ 485 million)                                                            Development
                (US$ 485 million)                                                            (US$ 300 million)          (US$ 500 million)
                                                                                                                                                 (US$ 48 million)

Fiscal             Capitalization of         Adoption of Public                               Piloting of a             Treasury’s
Consolidation       Social Security            Sector Performance                                methodology for            operational risk
and Public          System for State           Indicators                                        costing public             policy
Financial           public servants           Real Estate                                       policy programs           Adoption of budget
Management         Reorganization of          Property                                         Restructuring of the       preparation
                    budget processes           Management                                        internal audit             practices to
                                               System                                            agency.                   improve its
                                              Social Security                                                              accountability and
                                               Management                                                                   fiscal discipline
                                               System                                                                      Adoption of
                                                                                                                            financial and debt
                                                                                                                            management tools.

Tax                Strengthening of                                                            Strengthening of                                   Strengthening core
Administration      the Revenue                                                                  synchronized                                        taxation functions
                    Secretariat.                                                                 taxpayer
                   Adoption of                                                                  registration system.
                    electronic invoices.                                                        Adoption of
                                                                                                 standards to
                                                                                                 improve collection
                                                                                                 of State taxes.
                                                                                                Implementation of a
                                                                                                 results-based
                                                                                                 management
                                                                                                 system for tax
                                                                                                 administration.



                                                                                  29
Public                                                                        Adoption of a
Investment                                                                     methodology and
                                                                               procedures for
                                                                               evaluating,
                                                                               selecting and
                                                                               approving
                                                                               proposals for large
                                                                               public investment
                                                                               projects.

Private Sector      Streamlining of
                     business
                     registration process

Education           Implementation of         Building of                   Adoption of a             Developing In-
                     learning program to        SEEDUC Technical               merit-based                Service Teacher
                     reduce of age-grade        Capacity for                   selection process          Training Network.
                     distortion in basic        Studies and                    for regional and          Mapping of
                     education.                 Evidence-based                 school directors.          demographic and
                    Implementation of          Policy.                       Establishment of           infrastructure
                     new school                School-level                   annual school-level        needs.
                     management                 Performance                    targets for
                     information                Targets for State              improving student
                     program                    Schools.                       learning and
                                                                               graduation rates and
                                                                               a bonus pay system
                                                                               for schools.

Health              Adoption of               Information System            Framework to              Cost-Accounting
                     national standard          for Health Supply              assess and contract        Methodology for
                     practices in 24-hour       Chain Management               social organizations       UPAs and
                     operating Urgent           Evaluation of                  to manage public           Hospitals.
                     and Emergency              Financial Incentive            hospitals and health
                     Care Units (UPAs).         Programs for                   units.
                    Establishment of a         Municipalities                Evaluation
                     system of                                                 mechanisms to
                     performance-based                                         transfer bonuses
                     transfers from the                                        and monetary
                     State to                                                  incentives (i) to


                                                                      30
              municipalities                                   municipalities and
                                                               municipal hospitals
                                                              and (ii) to regional
                                                               State hospitals.

Housing and                       Enhancement of                                        Improving living
Land                               low-income                                             conditions in the
Management                         housing policy and                                     most vulnerable
                                   financing                                              social settings
                                   mechanisms.
                                  Strengthening land
                                   management and
                                   titling.
                                  Enhancement of the
                                   governance of the
                                   State Housing Fund
                                   (FEHIS).
                                  Strengthening of
                                   ITERJ’ land tenure
                                   regularization
                                   capacity
                                  Restructuring of the
                                   Secretariat of Social
                                   Assistance and
                                   Human Rights.

Urban                             Strengthening                                         Strengthening
Management                         metropolitan                                           metropolitan
                                   management                                             management
                                   through improved                                       through integration
                                   integration and                                        and coordination in
                                   coordination in                                        urban development,
                                   urban development                                      housing, transport,
                                   and transport.                                         environment and
                                  Establishment of a                                     disaster risk
                                   Directive                                              management
                                   Committee for
                                   Metropolitan
                                   Strategy and an

                                              31
                Integrated Program.
               Targeted and
                integrated social
                development
                programs to the
                urban poor.
               Establishment of
                the UPP Social
                Program, on a pilot
                basis, in the State
                slums.

Transport      Creation of the            Adopted of the
                Single Ticket               Urban Transport
                (Bilhete Unico) for         Master Plan
                public                      (PDTU) and a
                transportation in the       stakeholder
                RJMR.                       mechanism to
                                           accompany
                                            implementation.
                                           Implementation of
                                            a policy to
                                            physically integrate
                                            municipal and
                                            State- managed
                                            mass transit
                                            systems.
                                           Adoption of a new
                                            policy to promote
                                            non-motorized
                                            transport.
                                           Adoption of a
                                            policy for
                                            competitively
                                            awarding licenses
                                            for bus routes,
                                            instituting a results-
                                            based management
                                            system for

                           32
                                                                                                        concessions, and
                                                                                                        increase
                                                                                                        transparency on bus
                                                                                                        service
                                                                                                        performance.

DRM                            Radar system.      Establishment of a                                                           DRM.
                                                    State disaster risk
                                                    policy.

Natural                                            Strengthening of
Resource                                            the Institute of
Management                                          Environment to
                                                    capacity to protect
                                                    environmental
                                                    assets.
                                                    Improvement of
                                                    effective watershed
                                                    management and
                                                    decentralization.

PDO Rating   Satisfactory   Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory (ISR)        Not yet initiated




                                                               33
Annex 7. List of Interviewees


The following individuals were interviewed during the preparation of the report.


Paulo Tafner                                    Deputy Secretary for Finance, Secretariat of
                                                Finance, GORJ
João Marcos Meneses Simas de Souza              Finance Analyst, Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
Luisa Mazer                                     Finance Analyst, Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
Eugenio Manoel                                  Chief Auditor, Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
Robson Ramos                                    Audit Manager, Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
José Correa                                     Superintendent of Finance Information Records,
                                                Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
Sergio Abramovich                               IT Director, Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
Julio Montovani                                 Finance Planning Director, Secretariat of
                                                Planning, GORJ
Eduardo Brandão                                 Finance Analyst, Secretariat of Finance, GORJ
Pablo Villarim                                  Superintendent of Fundraising, Subsecretary of
                                                Finance, GORJ
Fátima Leite                                    Planning Manager, Secretariat of Planning,
                                                GORJ
Claudia Bezerra                                 Health Director, Secretariat of Health, GORJ
Deborah Linhares                                Assessor Subsecretariat of Finance, Secretariat
                                                of Finance
Roland Clarke                                   Task Team Leader, World Bank
Rafael Chelles Barroso                          Economist, World Bank
Barbara Bruns                                   Lead Education Economist, World Bank




                                               34
Annex 8: Map State of Rio de Janeiro




                                       35
