 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14892

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                                Date Posted: 02/17/2016

                 Country: Brazil
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                        Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                    1
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                    1
              Series ID: S126465
        First Project ID : P126465                                                  Appraisal                 Actual
         Project Name: Rio State                   Project Costs (US$M):                        300.0                  300.0
                           Development Policy
                           Loan Iii
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                         300.0                  300.0
       Sector Board:       Public Sector            Cofinancing (US$M):
                           Governance
             Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                08/30/2012
                                                                Closing Date:            01/31/2014           01/31/2014
          Sector(s):         Sub-national government administration (60%); Health (20%); General education sector
                             (20%)
         Theme(s):           Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (30%); Health system
                             performance (20%); Education for all (20%); Tax policy and administration (20%); Managing
                             for development results (10%)
Evaluator:                    Panel Reviewer:        ICR Review                 Group:
                                                     Coordinator:
Mauricio Carrizosa            Jorge Garcia-Garcia Lourdes N. Pagaran           IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The objective of the operation (Program Document, PD, p.v and 35) was “to assist the Government of Rio de
    Janeiro in strengthening its tax administration, improving the efficiency of public financial management,
    increasing the quality of public service provision in education and health and ensuring that policies adopted are
    both consistent with priorities of the State Government and with resources likely to be available in the medium
    term.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The program supported three policy areas (PD, para. 93):

    The Development Policy Operation (DPO) supported three policy areas (PD, para. 93):

    1. Tax administration . This area covered implementation of the synchronized taxpayer registration system to
    simplify the registration procedures and to increase compliance; procedures to allow for the introduction of a
    unified Taxpayer Ledger; and implementation of a performance-based management system for the Secretariat of
    Finance (SEFAZ) in Tax Administration.
   2. Public financial management . This area covered adoption of formal procedures for evaluation, selection and
   approval of public investment projects; and carrying out a detailed analysis of all ongoing major investment
   projects to document costs and future operating and maintenance costs.

   3. Public education and health . On public education, this area covered adoption and implementation of a
   transparent, merit-based selection process for regional directors and school directors and adoption and
   implementation of annual school-level targets for improving school results and bonus pay for school that achieve
   their targets. On public health, this area covered adoption of a legal and administrative framework to assess and
   contract social organizations to manage public hospitals and health units and definition of evaluation
   mechanisms to transfer bonuses and monetary incentives to municipalities, municipal hospitals, and regional
   state hospitals.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   The program consisted of one Development Policy Loan (DPL) for $300 million. It was approved on August 30,
   2012 on the basis of prior actions implemented during the course of 2011 and 2012, declared effective on
   November 16, 2012 and closed on January 31, 2014, as expected. The DPL was fully disbursed.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High. The DPO’s objective is consistent with the State’s development priorities. These include: a) raising more
   taxes to fund structural increases in expenditures as well as investments (including those for the 2014 World Cup
   and the 2016 Olympic Games), a possible fall in tax revenues from the sharing of royalties on oil production, and
   revenue shortfalls derived from adverse fluctuations in country macro variables that might materialize; (b) using
   scarce resources more effectively and preserving fiscal sustainability; and c) promoting social inclusion, income
   equity, labor productivity, and growth. On fiscal sustainability, the PD noted a declining trend in the state’s
   primary surplus. On social development, the PD noted weaker progress in reducing inequality in the State,
   compared to the average progress in Brazil. On education, school performance had reached the second lowest
   level in Brazil in 2009, with high repetition and low graduation rates. On health services, challenges include the
   lack of coverage and low quality of urgent and emergency services in the poorest neighborhoods, inadequate
   access by the poor to hospital care, particularly in small municipalities; and poor quality, efficiency and
   coordination of medium to high complexity care by regional hospitals in the interior of the state. Furthermore,
   prevention of chronic diseases is undermined by a low coverage of the Family Health Program. It is the lowest
   among the states in the south-east region and considered essential for health promotion and prevention,
   especially for the increasing incidence of chronic diseases that result at the advanced stage of the demographic
   transition. The DPO’s objective is also consistent with the World Bank Group’s 2012-2015 Country Partnership
   Strategy (CPS), notably with its objectives to increase the efficiency of public and private investments; and
   improve the quality of public services for low income households, and expand their provision through public and
   private channels. The July 2014 CPS Progress Report confirmed those objectives. The DPO’s objective is also
   consistent with Rio State’s 2012-2015 Multiannual Plan, which included fiscal management, health, and human
   capital among its five priorities.

b. Relevance of Design:


   Modest. The planned reforms could reasonably help achieve expected results, albeit possibly not within the
   seventeen-month timeframe of the operation. On taxes, better taxpayer registries, consolidated taxpayer
   accounts, and results-based tax administration can be expected to increase tax collection. On Public Financial
   Management, sound investment project evaluation, adequate costing of investments and of their recurrent costs,
   and a restructuring of the state audit institution (covering a focus on quality assurance of internal control systems,
   internal career paths, and reporting) can be expected to improve public investment quality, the consistency of
   investments with resource envelopes, and stewardship of the State’s resources. On education, merit-based
   selection of regional and school directors, and establishment of school results targets with bonus pays for
   achieving targets, can raise education quality. On health, contracting of services from non-profit providers and
   bonuses and monetary incentives to municipalities, municipal hospitals, and regional state hospitals can help
   increase coverage and quality. However, prior actions consisted of initial steps (e.g., on taxes, establish a
   committee for the tax registration system, adopt standards to improve collection, establish a process to
   implement results-based management), so that it would take time to have the reforms up and running. This
   means that actually achieving results (e.g., higher revenues), not just outputs (e.g., a functioning taxpayer
   ledger), would take even more time. This suggests that either prior actions should have reflected a more
   advanced stage of reforms in the single tranche operation, or that a multi-tranche operation, with e.g., reforms
   completed in the first stage and sustained in the second, would have been better results-oriented. Although the
   fourth DPL also covers financial management and fiscal sustainability issues, the outcomes it seeks do not follow
   up on those of the third DPL (e.g., on the screening process for public investment). The Bank selected a
   single-tranche (PD, para. 75) because of the long partnership with the State, the State’s high capacity and
   commitment, and difficulties with the approval process of single loans in a programmatic series under Brazil’s
   Fiscal Responsibility Law (PD paras. 75-76).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Strengthen tax administration .

   Modest. Reforms supported by the operation were expected to raise state revenues from the State’s taxes on
   goods and services and on estates and gifts, and make further progress on tax administration reforms, as
   reflected in the targets discussed below. However, the Government of Rio de Janeiro [GORJ] only partially
   completed the tax reforms that the operation supported. The taxpayer registration system had been in place
   before the operation was approved (a prior action). The tax ledger system is at an experimental and testing stage
   (the target of establishing it with taxpayer access to accounts was not met). The Tax Administration Office
   adopted the 20 performance indicators it expected to adopt (target met). The target with respect to revenues from
   the tax on goods and services (R$28.67 billion) was surpassed (R30.75 billion). Similarly, the target with respect
   to revenues from the estate and gift tax (R$470 million) was surpassed (R$644.6 million). But it is difficult to
   ascertain the significance of these targets for three reasons. First, the tax revenue outcome indicators were
   defined in monetary terms, not normalized to a measure of the economic activity generating those taxes (e.g., the
   State’s GDP), so that revenue increases linked to increases in activity could be isolated. Second, the early stage
   of the reforms suggests that their impact would take time to materialize beyond the target year (2013);
   accordingly, the observed revenue increases may only be partially, if at all, attributed to the reforms. Finally, the
   indicators do not provide a measure of tax administration effectiveness (e.g., such as revenue per dollar of
   expenditure).

   Improve the efficiency of public financial management and ensure that policies adopted are consistent with
   priorities of the State Government and with resources likely to be available in the medium term .


   Modest. The reforms supported by the operation were expected to improve the screening of public investments,
   ensure consistency of investment decisions and policy commitments with fiscal sustainability, and improve
   internal audit controls, as reflected in the targets discussed below. Little progress was achieved. There was no
   progress on investment screening, where no projects above R$50 million were subjected to the new technical
   screening process for investments, whilst the target was to screen five projects. There was very limited progress
   on ensuring consistency of public investment and policy commitments with fiscal sustainability. The target to
   publish information on future annual cost commitments from investments was not met and only modest progress
   was achieved in costing major policy programs and publishing their results as a means of achieving consistency
   with resource envelopes. The target was to cost four major policy programs and publish the results. Three
   programs were costed (but ex-post, not ex-ante as intended) and the results were not published. The best of the
   planned outcomes was the publication of an action plan to improve internal controls and of an annual report on
   human resource reforms and performance of internal control systems corresponding to 2013. But this outcome
   reflects only an action plan, not actual implementation. Other outputs (covering audit regulations, human
   resource management, decentralization to executing agencies, and procedures for focusing on results and
   ex-ante reviews) were only first steps in a lengthy process of incorporating modern audit and accounting
   systems.

   Increase the quality of public service provision in education .

   High. The operation was expected to implement actions towards improving the quality of education services, as
   reflected in the targets discussed below. To improve the quality of education services, the GORJ introduced a
   new merit-based selection process for regional and school directors, as well as a system of school results targets
   with staff bonus pays for achieving 80 percent of targets. The number of selected regional directors (35)
   exceeded the target (28) and the number of selected school directors (164) also exceeded the target (82). The
   target of paying bonuses for 2012 by June 2013 was met. The ICR notes that the staff in about 30 percent of the
   schools received bonuses (amounting to approximately 25 percent of the annual salaries) for meeting their
   targets and that the number of schools achieving 80 percent of their annual targets increased by 23 percent in
   comparison with the first year. It further notes an impressive rise in the State’s ranking in the national index of
    development of basic education (IDEB) for secondary education quality, from 26th in 2009 to 4th in the latest
    (2013) national IDEB scale. It also notes a consistent improvement in the annual Index of Educational
    Development of the State of Rio de Janeiro (IDERJ), an index that the State designed to measure its math and
    language proficiency results as well as its completion rates. All this suggests that the reforms may have helped
    increase quality.

    Increase the quality of public service provision in health .

    Substantial. The operation was expected to improve health care management, as reflected in targets on
    contractual arrangements, hospital coordination for complex treatments, and the quality of patient treatment
    discussed below. The State carried out the reforms to contract social organizations to manage health emergency
    services, covering 30 emergency care units, well over the target of 22. The ICR notes contracting has helped
    refocus the Secretariat of Health’s activity towards contract management rather than oversight of direct provision
    of services, although reimbursements need to focus more on performance targets, as opposed to service
    provision. Contracts appear to have been extended to some local hospitals, which was not originally planned.
    The supply of complex treatments to patients from other municipalities (25 percent of total, year not indicated in
    the ICR), an indicator of coordination, exceeded the 2011 and 2012 baselines (respectively 16.78 and 20.00
    percent) and the DPL target (24 percent). On hospital patient care, the number of hospitals engaging
    ombudsman services (63), which provide a redress mechanism for citizens that are not satisfied with the services
    provided, surpassed the target (53) and the baseline (44). However, the number of those hospitals (36, as
    informed by the TTL) that had infection evaluation committees did not meet its target (55). The ICR reports those
    committees (a surveillance mechanism for intra-hospital infections) were not found to be very effective in
    achieving their goals or to operate as expected. In lieu of this indicator, the Government now monitors other
    indicators, including hygiene standards and hospital waste disposal.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

    The DPL sought objectives that were relevant. They were consistent with the Government’s and Bank’s
    strategies and addressed important development issues of fiscal management and public sector service delivery.
    Design focused on relevant reform areas but underestimated the time needed to implement some of the reforms
    initiated by the prior actions, which were insufficient to achieve objectives, particularly those on tax revenues and
    public financial management. Progress achieved in education was the highlight of the program. In the health
    sector, the evidence suggests improvements in the administration of services. Results on tax revenues met
    targets, but attribution to the reforms supported by the DPL is in question. There was some advance in the
    costing of programs to seek their consistency with resource envelopes. Little progress was achieved on
    investment management. Audit reforms are at a very early stage. On balance, the outcome is rated Moderately
    Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    With the end of the administration supporting the reforms in 2014, the ICR identifies reversal risks in tax policies
    and of costing programs, where changes enacted through directives are not fully consolidated. This means that
    there is a risk that reforms in those areas may not be sustained. In contrast, the ICR reports that changes in the
    education and health sectors are taking root, with constituencies built behind them, and are unlikely to be
    reversed.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

Quality at entry benefited from strong relevance of objectives and from a selection of reform areas that were
appropriate to those objectives. Nevertheless, the time horizon needed for full implementation of reforms was
probably underestimated, resulting in ambitious targets. The reforms were expected to have positive poverty and
social impacts (PD, para. 138), with no positive or negative environmental effects. The financing provided by the
DPL was consistent with the state’s declining debt-to-revenue ratios, considering the State’s fiscal policies and
projected growth. Implementation arrangements were straightforward. The Finance Secretariat, in collaboration
with the Planning Secretariat, was to lead the program, implement the fiscal and PFM reforms, and collect results
data; and the education and health secretariats were responsible for the reforms associated to their sectors. A
Project Implementation Committee made up of officials from these agencies was to monitor implementation.
Funds were to disburse to a commercial bank that was deemed acceptable to the World Bank, as it met financial,
audit, and capacity criteria (PD para 159). M&E design suffered from pitfalls (Section 10). The PD identified
relevant fiscal, external, political, and sector (education, health) risks and relevant mitigation measures.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


    Supervision had a good focus on development impact in that it collected and monitored progress in results
    indicators. However, supervision inputs may have been inadequate. The ICR reports that during the 18
    months of implementation there were (two) full formal supervision missions, mainly geared at obtaining
    information on progress. In addition, the Bank followed implementation progress closely and assisted the
    authorities on a continuous basis only in a few areas. Not enough resources were allotted to engaging closely
    with the authorities and helping to develop remedial measures or otherwise assist with implementation
    beyond the prior actions. For example, on tax administration, where results called for actions following the
    DPL’s prior actions (e.g., establishing a unified taxpayer ledger), the ICR reports that the Bank did not have a
    close presence. Nevertheless, the ICR also notes (Para. 79) that most of the Bank’s work in this operation
    took place as part of the dialogue with GORJ as part of other loans. The Bank filed three ISRs that indeed
    reflect good collection of information on the progress made in results indicators. Their ratings may have been
    less than fully candid, as some of the results indicators suggested that achievement of the PDO and
    implementation progress may have been less than satisfactory.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


    Strong Government engagement in dialogue with the Bank and substantive prior actions in the different policy
    areas suggest substantive ownership and commitment towards the objectives, although follow-up after the
    prior actions was not as strong in all areas (e.g., on public investment management). In addition to providing
    the enabling sectoral environment through prior actions, the Government also ensured a good macro/fiscal
    environment to allow for the financing. The Government held consultations covering the reforms with local
    and sector stakeholders, including teachers, parent-teacher associations, health workers and health service
    providers (PD, paras.65-66.) Readiness for implementation appears to have been stronger in some areas
    (e.g., education) than others (PFM). As with the Bank, attention to resolving implementation issues may not
    have been sufficiently strong. M&E arrangements worked well in terms of collection of information and not so
    well in terms of utilization (Section 10). The ICR did not report on coordination or the role of other donors. The
    Government and the Bank continued some of the reform efforts of the DPL through a follow-up operation that
    includes medium-term planning and monitoring of public expenditures as one of its policy areas.



   Government Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    Implementing agency performance was uneven. The ICR notes the Finance Secretariat demonstrated good
    leadership as coordinator of the program. Its role in implementation (taxes) was weaker, as the tax reforms
    initiated by the prior actions fell short of completion. The Planning Secretariat achieved little progress on
    investment management reform, where coordination with Finance Secretariat appeared poor (ICR, para 57),
    and some progress in costing of programs. The Audit Agency’s performance was strong on its limited target
    of pursuing a modernization plan and beginning to change the focus of its oversight. The Education and
    Health Secretariats did well in implementing respectively the reforms to select and reward well-performing
    education staff and implement performance-based management in health services.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    Objectives were reasonably clear. However, most indicators measured outputs (e.g., selection of school
    directors), not outcomes (e.g., education quality indices) reflecting the objectives. The one numeric outcome
    indicator (tax revenues) was not well designed, as it was not normalized by economic activity. An indicator linked
    to economic activity (ratio of ICMS to state GDP) would have been more helpful. Several indicators reflected
    actions (e.g., establishment of a taxpayer ledger), not numeric measures indicative of progress (as, e.g., number
    of taxpayer queries to their ledgers). Since indicators largely reflected actions, data collection was largely limited
    to recording and documenting those actions. Given the focus of “outcomes” on actions, timely availability of
    baselines was straightforward (e.g., the baseline for establishing a ledger is “no unified general taxpayer ledger”).
    It cannot be said that the M&E design was well-embedded institutionally, as the ICR reports (para. 43).

b. M&E Implementation:

    Since collection of information on actions was fairly straightforward, M&E arrangements worked well in terms of
    collecting information. Baseline data was collected and indicators measured. Government ownership of M&E
    appears limited. The ICR notes that the committee formed to monitor agreed actions worked mostly to satisfy the
    needs of the periodic supervision missions of the Bank and dedicated groups that closely monitored the
    advances of reforms in the education and health were essentially set up for implementation purposes. The ICR
    did not discuss the reliability or quality of the data. Except in the education sector (where there are ongoing
    impact evaluations), the evaluation dimension of M&E does not appear strong.

c. M&E Utilization:

    With data collection alone and no evaluation, utilization of M&E remained weak as a tool to address
    implementation issues. For example, the data in the March 2013 ISR was showing good progress in ICMS and
    ITD tax collection. An analysis of that data could have sought to uncover the sources of that progress and its link,
    if any, to the reforms, in order to help the authorities make mid-course corrections as needed in those reforms.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
No safeguards policies were triggered by the series.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR did not report on fiduciary compliance.
c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate            The ratings in the ICR are inconsistent
                     Outcome:                                                   (“low or negligible” in the ratings
                                                                                summary section; “moderate” in the
                                                                                section on Assessment of Risk to
                                                                                Development Outcome). Reversal risks
                                                                                in tax policies and costing programs
                                                                                suggest a “Moderate” rating.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR suggests the following three lessons:
    1. A reform where the interests of implementing agencies are not well-aligned has limited chances of being
    achieved. This seems to have been the case of the public investment reform, where the Finance Secretariat
    coordinated poorly with the Planning Secretariat, the agency in charge of that reform.
    2. A combination of better incentives and institutions is a sound underpinning for successful reforms. The
    education reforms supported by the DPL combined an institutional change (merit-based appointments) with a
    good incentive (bonuses on good results) and seems to have been successful.
    3. A consistent and persistent engagement with a client will help improve results by helping build knowledge
    and expertise. In particular, the ICR underscores that programs are more likely to succeed when there are high
    level professional teams involved in the design stage.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    This is a concise, candid and thoughtful ICR. It reports the evidence on results indicators, albeit with gaps in the
    indicators relating to health service outcomes. The ICR provides a good account of the reforms and a thoughtful
    analysis of results. Discussion of relevance of objectives and design could have been more specific with regard
    to Rio State challenges and programs, to Bank strategy, and to the results chains underpinning the four
    dimensions of the PDO.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
