Report No. 525-IN                                                                2FLE  Copy
India                                                                                                 ur
Appraisal of
the Godavari Barrage Project
January 10, 1975
South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation Division
Not for Public Use
U
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Rupees (Rs) 8.00 /a
Rs 1.00        =    US$0.125
US$1 million        Rs 8,000,000
Rs 1 million   =    US$125,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (NETRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                         =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =    0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                      =    2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm )        =    810 acre-feet
1 ton                               =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
=    2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                     =    1,340 horsepower (hp)
ABBREVIATIONS
CAD       -    Command Area Development
GOAP      -    Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI       -    Government of India
HYV       -    High Yielding Varieties (of rice)
ICAR      -    Indian Council on Agricultural Research
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
NSC       -    National Seed Corporation
NVP       -    Net Value of Production
0 & M     -    Operation and Maintenance
PWD       -    Public Works Department (Andhra Pradesh)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOAP and agencies - April 1 - March 31
/a   The Indian Rupee is linked to the Pound Sterling and the exchange
rate with the United States Dollar has varied between US$1.00 - Rs 7.60
and Rs 8.40 in recent months.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................... *.    ..                     i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION  .....             ................................... .            1
II.    BACKGROUND .........  o ..........................................               1
The Economy  *.................... 00                                        1
Agriculture in India                 2............................           2
Agriculture in Andhra Pradesh                    ......................      2
III.    THE GODAVARI DELTA .....00000000           00000000000000........                3
Location  .................................3
Climate  *.ooo*..... *.***********.*.o........*.........4
Topography,  Soils and Drainage  *.*oooooooooooo*oo                          4
Fam  Size and Land Tenure                   ..........................       4
Hydrology  ..............        00000000000000000000000 0000                5
Agricultural Production  .... oooooooooooo.ooooo.o@.                         5
Agricultural Supporting Services  *..................                        6
Transportation  .....*.0.0.....              ....................**          7
IV.    THE EXISTING WEIR AND IMPLICATIONS OF ITS FAILURE  ..o.                          7
General ...........oe000...................*.***           ..****            7
Engineering Implications  ..o.ooooooooeoooooooooooo                          8
Agricultural Implications  .....               .....................         8
Vo    THE PROJECT  ..................................o....o                            9
Project Works  **        ..     ..............*.........                     9
Water Demand and Supply                 9...........................         9
Engineering Design                    ...................        ..         10
Implementation Schedule                  ............................       10
Cost Estimates  ...... o**0*.**0000*000***           00.** 0***. **         11
Financing               .................................                   12
Procurement  ***** o* oo**          oo**** .*o*o***.*..*.*. o.....          12
Disbursements  ...........................o.o..o...o..                      12
Accounts  and Audits  o.*oo. oo0oo00        o o..0o0     o**.ooo.o.o.       13
Environmental Effects  o*            .       ................ *........ .   13



Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................    13
Project Implementation and Maintenance      .............   13
Tendering Requirements .        ............................    14
Cost Recovery          ..................................  14
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    *..* ...   00.................    15
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...............    17
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data and River Flow
2.   Current Production in the Command Area
3.  Existing Weir and Implications of Its Failure
4.  Project Works
5.   Contingency Plan for Failure of the Old Weir
6.   Cost Estimates
7.   Equipment Requirements
8.  Schedule of Expenditure, Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
and Disbursements
9.  Economic Analysis
CHARTS
8977   Organization Chart - Project Implementation
8978   General Layout of the Barrage
8979   Typical Plan of the Barrage
8980   Typical crosssection of the Barrage
9343   Critical Path Diagram for Civil Works Contract
MAP
11189 Location Map



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
SUMKARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project would consist of the construction of a barrage
to replace an existing weir which is in danger of collapse. The existing
weir at Dowlaiswaram was completed in 1852 and has deteriorated with the
passage of time. In 1965, a high-level committee established by the Govern-
ment of India, reviewed the state of the weir and recommended the immediate
construction of a new barrage. However, because of a shortage of funds,
work was not started until 1971 and less than 5% of the construction has been
completed to date.
ii.       Three main canals take off from the weir to serve a command area
of 400,000 ha in the Godavari delta.  Some 160,000 farm holdings with an
average farm size of 2.5 ha are supplied with water from the weir.  Over
90% of the irrigated area is under rice in the wet season.  Some 150,000 ha
are irrigated in the dry season.  Cropping intensity is approximately 150%.
Agricultural production in the command area is about 1.4 million tons of
paddy and 2.2 million tons of sugarcane. The expected loss in net value of
production following a weir failure is estimated at Rs 800 million (US$100
million).
iii.      The barrage is to be located 24 m upstream of the old weir and
will use the existing weir as its downstream protective apron. The barrage
will be 3,600 m long and will be divided into 175 bays, each equipped with
a spillway gate. The gates, when closed, will raise the pond level one meter
higher than in the existing weir. Site exploration for the whole barrage,
hydraulic model studies and detailed designs for part of the structure are
complete and are sufficient for the tendering of the whole structure. Design
standards are satisfactory.
iv.       Project costs, including the cost of preparing a second-phase
Command Area Development project as well as funds for technical assistance
to GOI for preparing CAD projects in other parts of India, are estimated at
US$70.0 million, with a foreign exchange component of US$20.0 million or
29. of the total. This foreign exchange estimate is based oin the assumption
that all works would be carried out by local contractors. If the works are
contracted to foreign bidders following International Competitive bidding
(ICB) Procedures, the foreign currency requirements are likely to be US$32
million. Estimated costs are based on price levels prevailing in January
1974 and include expected price increases. A 25% physical contingency has
been included for civil engineering works to allow for unusual contingencies
which could arise in case of a partial failure of the existing weir during
the four-year implementation period. A plan for emergency repairs to the
existing weir during the construction of the new barrage has been prepared
and equipment and materials would be kept ready near the weir to enable
repair work to start immediately.



- ii -
v.        The proposed credit of US$45 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project and 34% of local costs if the works are
carried out by foreign contractors and 50% of local costs if the works are
carried out by local contractors or 64% of total project costs. The credit
would be made to GOI under usual IDA terms. Both the civil works contract
and the gate manufacture and erection contract would be subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB). Works carried out between February and June 1975
on the barrage, dismantling of the crest of the existing weir and site prepara'tion
works would be by departmental force account. Building materials would be
procured by the PWD, locally or through ICB, and made available to contractors
at fixed prices. The 1974 price of these materials, delivered to the
construction site, is estimated at US$8.0 million.
vi.       In accordance with Bank policy regarding Preference to Domestic
Construction Industries (R 73-291 dated December 21, 1973) local contractors
would be entitled to a 7.5% preference on the civil works contract, estimated
at 1974 prices, net of price contingencies, at US$24 million. A 15% preference
on the gate manufacture and erection contract would be given to local bidders;
at 1974 prices this contract is estimated at US$12.0 million net of contin-
gencies.
vii.      Project implementation for all civil engineering works excluding
the road bridge would take three and a half years and would be completed by
June 1978. The manufacture of all 175 gates and the erection of at least
130 gates would be completed by June 1978 with the balance of the gates
erected by June 1979. To meet the construction schedule, the main civil
engineering contract would be awarded by June 1975 and the gate manufacture
and erection contract by September 1975. Responsibility for preparing
construction drawings, specifications and tender documents would be with
the PWD under the Chief Engineer, Major Irrigation Works. Once the barrage
is completed it would be maintained by the existing PWD organization in
Dowlaiswaram, as is the case with the existing weir and associated canal
system. Preparation of the second-phase project would be carried out by
the Command Area Development Department of the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
viii.     The economics of constructing a new structure to replace the
existing one, once the old structure has failed, are obvious; using con-
servative estimates for production losses, the economic rate of return on the
investment in the new barrage would be over 50%. Taking into account estimated
probabilities of failure, the expected rate of return is estimated to be
about 44%. The probabilities of failure for the various sections of the weir
have also been used to examine various alternatives for construction phasing.
In particular, three alternatives have been examined in detail:
(a) a four-year implementation period;
(b) a six-year implementation period; and
(c) a ten-year implementation period.



- iii -
ix.        These alternatives have been compared on the basis of the present
value of the expected costs, where the costs include the construction costs
and the expected losses in production. The present value of the expected costs
for the three alternatives is estimated to be Rs 1,020 million (US$127.5
million), RS 1,090 million (US$136.3 million) million and Rs 1,350 million
(US$168.8 million) respectively. The difference of Rs 70 million (US$8.8
million) between alternative A and the next best alternative B is almost
one-fifth of the present value of the total construction cost for the
proposed barrage. A number of sensitivity tests indicate that the ordering
of the three alternatives is preserved even after substantial changes in
the assumptions about the probabilities of failure, the expected losses
associated with a failure, the construction costs and the opportunity cost
of capital.
x.         The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$45.0 million.
The borrower would be the Government of India.






I, INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance to
finance the Godavari Barrage Project in Andhra Pradesh State. The project
is to include construction of a new barrage to replace the existing weir
which is in imminent danger of collapse. This would be the third IDA
investment in agriculture in Andhra Pradesh, the two preceding ones being
the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 226-IN, 1971) and
the Pochampad Irrigation Project (Credit 268-IN, 1971). The Bank Group has
also assisted in over twenty agricultural projects in other parts of India.
1.02      Bank Group strategy for agriculture in India is to promote the
full use of existing irrigation potential through on-farm developments,
spread of modern cultivation practices and provision of inputs such as
credit, seeds, fertilizers and pesticides. In areas where intensive culti-
vation is already being practiced, Bank Group strategy is oriented towards
ensuring the continuation of those practices through proper maintenance
and, where necessary, rehabilitation of the existing major works.
1.03      The existing Godavari weir was built over 120 years ago and
has deteriorated with the passage of time. A similar structure on the
Krishna river, built about the same time, collapsed in 1952 and had to be
replaced with a new barrage. In 1965 a high-level committee, established
by GOI to review the state of the Godavari weir, recommended immediate
construction of a new barrage. However, due to a shortage of funds, work
was started only in 1971, and less than 5% of the construction has been
completed to date. In April 1974, GOI asked IDA for assistance in completing
the project. In May 1974 a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) mission visited
Andhra Pradesh to assist the Government in preparing the project for IDA
consideration. Their recommendations are given in a report (No. 18/74
IND. 19) dated June 3, 1974. The present report is based on the findings of
an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. G. J. Tibor, P. C. Garg, U. Hpu
(IDA) and F. Ritchey (Consultant) which visited India in June 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      India covers some 3,270 million km  of which 43% is arable and
about 9% is under some kind of irrigation. India's population is about
580 million. Rapid population growth (2.2% p.a.) and a relatively poor
natural resource base have imposed sharp limitations on India's economic
growth. However, since the inception of economic development planning in
1950, national income has grown at nearly 4% per year, compared with an
average growth rate of less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. In 1970,
per capita GNP was about US$110.



- 2 -
2.02      The Government's development program for the next five years
aims at an economic growth rate of 5.5%, but with greater emphasis than
in previous plans on alleviating poverty and creating employment. This
would be accomplished by promoting labor-intensive techniques, raising
the productivity of subsistence farmers, a national program to supply the
minimum needs of the poorest segments of the population, and tax measures
to curb consumption by the richer classes. However, these objectives are
likely to be difficult to attLin, given the severe balance of payments crisis
triggered by recent increases in oil prices.
Agriculture in India
2.03      About 70% of India's population are engaged in agriculture and
the sector accounts for about 45% of GNP. Agriculture also provides the base
for most of India's exports, the most important commodities being jute, tea,
leather, cotton goods and cashew nuts. Since 1965, India's development
efforts have placed a major emphasis on agriculture and have been oriented
to promote the spread of moderm technology by increasing the availability of
high-yielding seeds and fertilizer, expanding irrigation and developing
modern credit institutions. let, despite the impressive results of the
green revolution in some areas since 1967, the overall annual growth rate in
agricultural output in the ten-year period ending in 1972 was only 3%, which
was little more than population growth and slightly lower than the growth
rate in the previous decade. However, these figures conceal an important
structural change; growth in production is now coming primarily from yield
increases rather than from increases in cropped area as has traditionally
been the case.
2.04      The green revolution has mainly affected wheat and its effects
have been concentrated in the northwestern states which are well endowed
with irrigation facilities. The spread of high-yielding rice varieties
has been disappointingly slow, because of inadequate water control and, in
the last two years, a severe shortage of fertilizer. Most other crops have
had stagnant or low growth rates.
2e05      Despite the progress made in food production, Indian agriculture
still depends heavily on the vagaries of the weather, as evidenced during
the 1972/73 drought when reserve stocks were seriously reduced and large
amounts of grain had to be impcrted. A major factor in reducing India's
dependence on the weather will be the expansion of irrigation and the more
effective use of existing irrigation potential.
Agriculture in Andhra Pradesh
2.06      Andhra Pradesh, with an area of 27.5 million ha, is one of the
largest States in India. It is predominantly agricultural, with a population
of about 43.3 million which is 82% rural. About 40% of the total area of
the State is cultivated; rice, millet, pulses and groundnuts are the major
crops. A quarter of the total cultivated area is under irrigation; the rest
depends upon rainfall which ranlges from 500 mm annually in the southwest to
1,100 mm in the northeast.



2.07      The main source of irrigation in the State are two major rivers,
the Godavari and the Krishna, and their tributaries. Numerous irrigation
canals branch from these rivers. The upland areas use rainfed tanks and
groundwater for irrigation. Largely because of the intensively cultivated
deltas of the Godavari and the Krishna rivers, the state is one of the few
"aurplus" states in India.
2.08      During the past 25 years, Andhra Pradesh State has invested heavily
in irrigation projects. However, the returns have been rather low, mainly
because the available resources have been spread over too many projects,
resulting in long construction and gestation periods and delayed benefits.
Two major projects, the Nagarjunasagar and the Pochampad Irrigation Projects,
are presently under construction, the latter with IDA assistance. The
progress of these projects has been slower than expected and the land devel-
opment works are lagging behind water availability. The Government of Andhra
Pradesh (GOAP) is aware of the inadequacy of the current land development
operations and is proposing to set up a well-coordinated technical and
administrative organization, backed up by suitable legal measures, to expedite
the development in the command areas of the two projects. When completed
the two projects will benefit some 1.0 million ha.
III. THE GODAVARI DELTA
Location
3.01      The proposed barrage is near the site of an existing weir at
Dowlaiswaram. At that point the Godavari river branches into two channels,
the Gautami Godavari flowing to the east and the Vashista Godavari to the
southwest. Three main canals take off from the weir to serve the East, Central
and Western areas of the Godavari Delta located along the Bay of Bengal in the
eastern region of Andhra Pradesh (Map 11189). The respective net irrigated
areas are as follows:
Hectares
(a)  Eastern Godavari                               112,000
(Lying east of Gautami)
(b)  Central Godavari                                82,000
(The island between Gautami and Vashista)
(c)  West Godavari                                  209,000
(Lying west of Vashista)
Total                          403,000



- 4 -
Climate
3.02      The delta has a tropical and humid climate, and is influenced by the
southwest monsoons from June to September and the northeast monsoons from -
October to December. Mean annual rainfall is approximately 1,100 mm, of which
65% occurs during the southwest monsoon period. The onset date of the
southwest monsoon varies greatly, as does the amount of monthly and annual
precipitations of both monsoons. Mean maximum monthly temperatures range
from 28e to 370 C (Annex 1, Table 1).
Topography, Soils and Drainage
3.03      The Godavari deltaic plain is about 50 miles wide and extends for
about 100 miles along the sea. The land slopes gently toward the sea at
a gradient of some 0.2 m per km. The soils of the Godavari delta vary from
coastal sands bordering on the Bay of Bengal, through deltaic alluvium of
the middle delta to heavier clay loam and some laterite soils at the head
of the delta. The deltaic alluvium is composed of brown clay and sandy silts
with nodules of kankarlime and covers 70% of the area. The Godavari silts
are rich in lime, potash and phosphate and are very fertile.
3.04      Except for parts of the lower delta and some areas around Kolleru
lake (Map 11189) the drainage problems are relatively minor. Where they
occur, they are caused by inadequate drainage channels, inundation of low-
lying lands, and obstructions to drainage flows by railway and road embank-
ments. Some of these problems are affecting crop yields and can be partially
overcome by earlier sowing and transplanting of the kharif crop. The
GOAP is taking some measures to improve the drainage system. Also, special
emphasis would be given to these problems in the proposed second phase study
(Annex 4).
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05      There is a lack of reliable data on the farm size and the land
tenure situation in the command area. It is estimated that the area has
about 160,000 farm holdings with an average farm size of 2.5 ha. The
following table gives a rough indication of the distribution by farm size:
Farm Size              Farm Holding      Cultivated Area
2 ha or less               70                  25
2-5 ha                     15                  25
over 5 ha                  15                  50
About one-third of the farmers in the area are tenant farmers.  Tenancy
arrangements vary over the area, with tenants paying between one-third and
one-half of the gross production to the landlords. Socio-economic surveys
to be conducted for the proposed second phase study would provide more
reliable information about farm sizes and the land tenure situation in the
area.



-5-
Hydrology
3.06      The Godavari river, which drains an area of some 300,000 sq km, is
the third largest in India. Mean monthly flows and annual discharge at
Dowlaiswaram, for the period 1906-1961, are shown in Annex 1, Table 2. The
highest recorded flood in the Godavari river at Dowlaiswaram was 85,000 m3/sec
in 1953; the second highest was 79,000 m3/sec in 1959.   In the last few
years flows have been affected by increased consumption in upstream irrigation
projects. The Godavari is an inter-state river and its utilization is subject
to the ruling of an inter-state tribunal. However, the water requirements
of the command area at current irrigation levels are assured.
3.07      In addition to diversions from the river, small tubewells, operated
by centrifugal pumps, are widely used in the middle delta, particularly for
paddy nurseries and garden crops. However, their yields are not generally
adequate for the needs of the main crops. In the middle and upper delta the
quality of water is excellent. In the lower delta groundwater is saline due
to the proximity of the sea. The proposed second phase study would further
explore the groundwater resources of the area (Annex 4).
Agricultural Production
3.08      The command area of the veir has been under irrigation for over 120
years and has a well-organized water distribution system. Host of the irri-
gable land has been levelled and cropped for a very long time.
3.09      Rice is by far the most important crop.  There are two crops of
irrigated rice, namely, (a) wet season or "kharif" which is usually sown in
June-July and harvested in November-December and (b) dry season or "rabi" which
is usually sown in December-January and harvested in April-May.
3.10      The kharif rice crop covers some 375,000 ha of the command area;
the remaining 28,000 ha is mostly under sugarcane. The kharif rice crop is
followed by a "rabi" rice crop on about 150,000 ha. Water availability is
the limiting factor for rabi rice. To give equal opportunity to all farmers
in the area, a rotational system for growing rabi rice has been introduced
and is strictly followed. Other rabi crops are grown on some 90,000 ha with
residual soil moisture following the kharif rice; these include pulses, edible
oilseed and chillies. On the whole the cropped area totals 615,000 ha, giving
a cropping intensity of 154%.
3.11      A number of high-yielding varieties (HYV) of rice responsive to
fertilizer applications and non-photosensitive, have been introduced for both
kharif and rabi crops since 1964-65. At present HYV cover about 46% of the
kharif crop and 80% of the rabi crop. All the rabi HYV are dwarf varieties
with an average yield of 3,500 kg/ha. Because of the recurrent water shortages
in May and June which delay sowing and transplanting, a large part of the
kharif crop is under tall varieties, reducing the average yield for the kharif
paddy to 2,600 kg/ha. In the low-lying areas the risk of flooding in September



-6-
and early October dictates the use of tall varieties. Average paddy production
in the project area during the last five years was about 1.4 million tons,
about two-thirds from the kharif crop and the rest from the rabi crop.
3.12      Sugarcane is planted from December to February and harvested from
November to April. The varieties planted are mainly improved, high-yielding,
developed at the Coimbatore Sugarcane Research station in Southern India.
Average yields are 90 tons/ha in the first year. The first ratoon yields
80 tons/ha and the second ratoon 70 tons/ha. Annex 2 gives details of current
agricultural production in the command area.
Agricultural Supporting Services
3.13      Agricultural extension services in the command area, particularly
in the West Godavari district, are well organized and adequately staffed.
The West Godavari district is one of the seven Indian districts in which the
Intensive Agricultural Program was introduced in 1961 (with assistance from
the Ford Foundation and USAID). Since 1970, all the expenditures for the
program have been met by the GOAP.
3.14      In both the West and East Godavari districts there is a Deputy
Director of Agriculture. He is responsible for agricultural extension in
the district and is assisted by several subject matter specialists, about a
dozen in the West and four in the East. Village Development Officers are
responsible for agricultural extension at the village level; a number of
Assistant Agricultural Officers supervise their work.
3.15      Agricultural research on rice is conducted at the Agricultural
Research Station at Maruteru, in the West Godavari district; variety and
fertilizer trials are also conducted at the Samalkot farm in the East
Godavari district and on private farms. Seed multiplication, processing
and distribution are the responsibilities of both the National Seed Corpora-
tion (NSC) and the GOAP Department of Agriculture. There are two modern seed
processing units in the project area.
3.16      Fertilizers and pesticides are procured and distributed by the
Department of Agriculture, the Cooperatives Department and private traders.
Fertilizer consumption per hectare in 1971-72 averaged 50 kg of nitrogen,
16 kg of superphosphate and 10 kg of potash for paddy; and 150 kg of nitrogen
for sugarcane. Fertilizer use has since decreased somewhat because of supply
shortages.
3.17      Current agricultural practices in the command area are adequate,
but yields could be further increased by improved water control, better
varieties and improved cultivation practices. The proposed second phase
study would assess the potential for such improvements (Annex 4).



-7-
Transportation
3.18      Transport facilities in the command area are better than those in
most other agricultural areas of the country. The main centers in and
around the area are connected to each other by all-weather roads. The main
railway line and road connecting Calcutta to Madras pass through the area,
providing easy access to all major ports and cotmercial centers of the country.
The Godavari river and the three main irrigation canals are navigable (locks
are provided around the cross regulators in the canals) and facilitate the
transport of farm produce to the road network and the railheads.
IV. THE EXISTING WEIR AND IMPLICATIONS OF ITS FAILURE
General
4.01      The existing Godavari weir, built entirely of bricks and masonry,
was constructed during the years 1847-1852. As irrigation demand in the
command area increased, the weir crest was raised and steel shutters added,
raising the pond level by 1.19 m over the original design level.  As the
weir is founded on sand and as flood flows are large, erosion immediately
downstream from the structure has been a continuing problem and constant
maintenance has been necessary. In spite of such maintenance, however, the
condition of the structure has steadily deteriorated.
4.02      By 1965 deterioration of the Godavari weir had progressed to such
a degree that a high-level committee was set up by the Ministry of Irriga-
tion and Power, GOI, to advise on immediate remedial measures and on the
desirability of reconstruction. The committee recommended immediate con-
struction of a new barrage and provided outline designs and cost estimates
for the work. However, due to a shortage of funds, work was started only
in 1971 and less than 5% of the construction has been completed to date.
4.03      The primary cause of deterioration has been erosion on the down-
stream side of the weir, due in part to flows across the weir but also in
some areas to strong lateral flows along the toe of the weir. The secondary
cause of deterioration has been piping 1/, aggravated by erosion of the down-
stream apron. Severe piping of fill from beneath the weir has caused
concentration of load onto the cylindrical brick caissons which partially
support it. This in turn may cause structural failure of the foundations.
1/ Piping is the movement of soil particles by percolating water through
the body of the dam, leading to the development of gradually widening
seepage channels.



-8-
Engineering Implications
4.04      Failure would most likely occur in the form of a sudden settlement
of a portion of the weir during a period of maximum hydraulic gradient
followed by the formation of open shear cracks on either side of the settle-
ment area. Flow concentration through the cracks and over the collapsed
portion of the weir would cause rapid widening of the breach by lateral
erosion and an undermining of the weir foundations. By the time repairs
could be effected, at low flows, the break could be a major one, probably
several hundred meters wide and of considerable depth.
4.05      Assuming that a weir failure occurs early in the flood season
(July), the recurring floods could wash away most of the affected section
and deeply scour the riverbed in the breached area. The scouring would
gradually move upstream into the reservoir. Such bed erosion would require
a design change in the new barrage which could result in a significant
increase in the cost of the affected section. There could also be a delay
in the construction schedule because of the need for additional hydraulic
model studies and the preparation of new designs (Annex 3).
4.06      There is some possibility that through emergency repairs, similar
to those undertaken following the breach of the weir on the Krishna river,
the breach could be plugged before it has a major effect either on the
riverbed or on the irrigation water supply to the command area. The success
of such repairs would depend upon the initial width of the breach and on
the stages of the river following the breach. To avail of the favorable
circumstances, if they occur, assurances have been obtained from GOAP that
materials needed for emergency repairs would be stockpiled and equipment
would be kept ready at the weir site during the construction of the new
barrage (Annex 5).
Agricultural Implications
4.07      A breaching of the weir would lower the pond level at the canal
inlet structures. During the wet season water levels in the river would
be only occasionally higher than the canal beds, restricting the availability
of irrigation water to those occasions. This would result in the loss of a
major part of the kharif crop. During the dry season no diversion would be
possible and there would be no rabi rice crop as rice can only be grown with
irrigation. Areas under rabi crops other than rice would also be considerably
reduced, because of the lack of soil moisture build-up during kharif irriga-
tion. If water supplies remain interrupted for more than one year, farmers
would follow the pattern of rainfed agriculture, practiced in the surrounding
non-irrigated areas (Annex 3, Table 1). The expected loss in net value of
production following a weir failure is estimated at Rs 800 million (US$100
million).



-9-
V. THE PROJECT
5.01      The proposed project includes construction of a barrage across
three branches of the Godavari river (Dowlaiswaram, Maddur, and Vizzeswaram
sections) and completion of construction of the fourth branch (Ralli section).
Construction of that section was started in 1971 and the completed portions
equal about 5% of the total works. The project also includes funds for the
preparation ofia second-phase Command Area Development (CAD) project (moderni-
zation of the irrigation and drainage system, groundwater development and on-
farm works) in the Godavari delta as well as funds for technical assistance
to GOI for preparing CAD projects in other parts of India. The works to be
financed under the project are described briefly below and in more detail in
Annex 4.
Project Works
5.02      The new barrage is located some 24 m upstream of the old weir and
will use the existing structure as its downstream protective apron. The
barrage will be in four independent sections across the four branches of
the river and connected in between with embankments across the three islands
(Chart 8978). The length of these sections are:
(Meters)        (Number of Bays)
Dowlaiswaram section             1,438                  70
Ralli section                      884                 43
Maddur section                     470                  23
Vizzeswaram section                801                  39
Total                       3,593                175
The barrage structure will comprise 175 reinforced concrete sills, each
about 18 m wide, between reinforced concrete piers.  The elevation of the
sill will be at +10.57 m.  Spillway leaf gates will raise the pond level to
+13.64 m, one meter higher than in the existing weir. A two-lane roadway
will be provided over the barrage.
Water Demand and Supply
5.03      The water conveyance system from the weir is designed for a gross
water duty of 1.0 lit/sec/ha and a yearly diversion of some 5,000 Mm3. Except
for the land preparation and transplanting period in May and June, the duty
is sufficient to meet irrigation demand in the kharif season. During that
period the required water duty is considerably higher. Owing to reduced river
flow during May and June, and the lack of canal conveyance capacities, the
land preparation and transplanting season has to be staggered from May 15
to August 15. Paddy transplanted later in the season produces lower yields
and is more susceptible to flood damage. From May 15 to July 15 the flow
in the Godavari is subject to rapid fluctuations. By properly operating



- 10 -
the gates in the new barrage, some of the flows, which presently spill over
the weir, could be stored and utilized to increase the supply to the delta.
(Some 50 Mm3 of additional storage would be available with the new barrage.)
The increase in the diversion head, from + 12.64 m at present to + 13.64 m
on the new barrage, would also increase conveyance capacity through the main
canal network by 25X, from 1.0 lit/sec/ha to 1.25 lit/sec/ha. To carry tnese
increased flows, the freeboard in some stretches of the main canals would have
to be reduced to 0.50 m. Such a reduction in freeboard, for short periods
of time, is acceptable if the canals are properly maintained and water dis-
tribution is well controlled.
5.04       Supply to the rabi crop is limited by the availability of water in
the river, rather than by canal capacities. With a gross water requirement
of approximately 1.0 lit/sec/ha, the dry season crop, on some 150,000 ha,
can be supplied in three years out of four during January, February and
early March. A deficit of some 50 Mm3 occurs in tne second half of March
and April which would be made up from the additional storage available in
the barrage.
Engineering Design
5.05       Site exploration for the whole barrage, hydraulic model studies
and detailed designs for the civil engineering works of the Ralli section
are complete. As all four sections are similar in design, the Ralli section
design can be used for tendering for the remaining civil works. Design work
is carried out by the Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC). The design
standards are satisfactory. Responsibility for the preparation of working
drawings, construction specifications, negotiations of contract and super-
vision of construction, rests with the GOAP Public Works Department (PWD).
Tne quality of construction work on thie completed parts of the Ralli section
is satisfactory. The work is closely supervised and adequate testing facil-
ities for construction materials are provided at the site. Construction
methods are described in Annex 4.
Implementation Schedule
5.06       Project implementation for all civil engineering works, including
most of the road bridge over the barrage would take three and a half years
and would be completed by June 1978. The manufacture of all 175 gates
and hoists and the erection of at least 130 gates would be completed by
June 1978 with the balance of the gates erected by June 1979. To reduce
the risk to the water supply in the delta, if a section of the weir is
breached during this period, each section of the new barrage will have its
gates installed as soon as the piers are completed. The first construction
season, from February to June 1975, would be used for the construction of
six bays of the Dowlaiswaram section. The construction seasons, from
November 1975 to June 1978, would be used to complete civil works construction
except for portions of the road bridge on the Dowlaiswaram and Vizzeswaram
sections. During this period the power connection to operate the hoists



- 11 - 
would also be completed and 75% of the crest gates and hoists installed.
From November 1978 to June 1979 the road bridge would be completed and the
remaining gates and hoist arrangements installed (Chart 9343).
Cos t Es tifma4tes
5.07      The estimated tqtal cost of the project is US$70.0 million,
including US$20.0 million (29%) in foreign exchange. The foreign exchange
requirements are based on the assumption that all works would be carried out
by local coutractqrs. If the works are contracted to foreign contractors
the foreign exchange requirements are likely to be US$32 million. Estimated
costs are based on price levels prevailing in January 1974 and include
expected price tncreases, beginning at 17% in the first year and tapering
to 11% in tho fourth year.  Overall price increases are estimated at 26%
of the total coot of the project. Physical contingencies of 15% for the
mechanical engineering works and 25% for the civil works have been included.
The relattvely large physical contingencies for fairly simple civil engineer-
ing construction works have been included to allow for risks arising from a
possible failure of one of the weir sections during the four-year implementa-
tion period (Annex 9). Such a failure may involve an increase in the cost
of the barrage in the affected section (Annex 3). A breakdown of project
costs is presented in Annex 6 and is summarized below.
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
- ----Rs Million               -US$ Million------
Civil Works                163.8     44.6    208.4    20.48    5.57        6-0J
Mechanical Lnginoe4rng
Works                     32.0     52.0      84.0      4.00    6.50      10.5u
Engineering and
Supervision               42.2      4.7      46.9      5.27    0.59       5.86
Technical Assistance to
G0I for Preparing
CAD Projects               4.8      2.4       7.2      0.60    0.30       0.90
Preparation of Sec9nd
Phase Project              2.6      0.6       3.2      0.32    0.08       0.40
Sub-Tptal            245.4    104.3    349.7    30.67   13.04         43.71
Physical Contingencips    45.8        18.9     64.7      5.72    2.37        8.09
Estimated Price
Increases                107.8     36.7    144.5    13.47    4.59        18.06
Sub-Total            153.6      55.6    209.2    19.19    6.96        26.15
Total Project Co0Ss        399.0    159.9    558.9    49.86   20.00 l    69.86
(or say) 70.00
/a   If tne works are contracted to a foreign bidder the foreign exchange
requirements are likely to be US$32 mdllion.



- 12 -
Financing
5.08      The proposed credit of US$45 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project (US$2U.U million) and 34% of the local
costs, if the works are carried out by foreign contractors and 50% of
local costs if the works are carried out by local contractors, or 64%
of the total project cost. The credit would be made to GOI under usual
IDA terms. Operation and maintenance of the barrage would be financed
by GOAP from its regular budget-.
Procurement
5.09      Contracts for civil works (about US$24.0 million net of price
contingencies) and for the manufacture and installation-of the gates (about
US$12.0 million net of price contingencies) would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Local contractors participating in the bidding for civil works would be
entitled to a 7.5% preference in accordance with the Bank Group policy
approved by the Executive Directors on January 22, 1974 (R 73-291). For
gate manufacture and erection, the usual preference limited to 15% of the
cif price of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would
be extended to local bidders during bid evaluation. Tender documents would
clearly specifX these preferences and the manner of their application. Works
carried out between February and June 1975, before the civil works contract
is awarded, and the dismantling of the crest of the old weir after completion
of the new barrage would be done through PWD force account.
5.10      Equipment and vehicles, estimated at US$0.6'million (net of price
contingencies) and required by PWD for project preparation and supervision of
works, would not be suitable for international tendering and would be procured
directly from local suppliers. (Annex 7 gives equipment requirements.) PWD
would ensure that building and construction materials for civil and mechanical
works (cement, structural steel and sheet piling) would be made available to
contractors at fixed prices to be stated in the tender documents. PWD would
observe the general procurement provisions of the GOAP, which are acceptable.
Assurances were obtained from GOI that cement required for the project shall be
allocated as part of Andhra Pradesh's annual allocation and if necessary,
such cement shall be earmarked to the project by GOI, and if other building
and construction materials cannot be supplied in accordance with the detailed
time-schedule for their supply, they would be promptly imported.
Disbursements
5.11      Disbursements would be made at a rate of 100% against the cif cost
of directly imported equipment and building materials, or the ex-factory
price for equipment procured locally. Disbursements for civil works carried
out by contract would be on a percentage basis.  Disbursements for force
account work by PWD would be made against a certificate of expenditure. The
estimated schedule of expenditures on the project, the proposed allocation



- 13 -
of the proceeds of the credit and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are
presented in Annex 8. Any savings in the credit account would be reallocated
by increasing the percentage disbursement for civil works. It is expected
that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1979, about six months
after completion of project construction.
Accounts and Audits
5.12      The PWD would be subject to normal Government control and auditing
procedures which are considered satisfactory. Assurances were obtained
from GOAP that the accounts and financial statements of the project would
be submitted to the Association within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
5.13      The project would have no adverse effect on the environment in the
area commanded by the canal network. Raising the pond level behind the bar-
rage by 1.0 m during the dry season would have no environmental effect as the
pond is confined between the flood banks of the river.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation and Maintenance
6.01      Responsibility for preparing construction drawings (civil and
mechanical engineering works), specifications and tender documents would
be with the PWD of GOAP under the Chief Engineer, Major Irrigation Works.
The Department is fully competent to carry out these tasks. During the
last two decades it has been responsible for major construction works in the
Tungabadhra, Nagarjunasagar and Pochampad projects.
6.02      The Chief Engineer, Major Irrigation Works, would nominate a
Project Engineer with overall responsibility for the management of the
project during implementation. The Project Engineer would be in charge of
two Superintending Engineers (civil and mechanical), located at the barrage
site, with responsibility for contract management and supervision. The
Superintending Engineer for civil works would have four executive engineers,
one for each of the four sections of the barrage. Each executive engineer
would be assisted by about four assistant engineers and about twenty junior
engineers. The Superintending Engineer, mechanical works, would have two
executive engineers to supervise erection of the gates and hoists, and one
executive engineer in charge of transport, machinery and workshops (Chart
8977). Fully qualified staff is available within PWD to fill these posts.
6.03      Responsibility for the adequacy of the barrage as constructed
would rest with the design agency (CWPC). To ensure the safety and proper
functioning of the barrage, all changes and additions to the original



- 14 -
designs would be drawn or approved by CWPC, whose staff would also maintain
surveillance over the construction standards. CWPC would assign competent
staff of appropriate seniority for continuous review of work, with partic-
ular emphasis on quality control. At completion, CWPC would certify that
work has been carried out in accordance with their designs and specifica-
tions. From then onwards the barrage would be operated and maintained by
the existing PWD organization in Dowlaiswaram as is the case with the
existing weir and associated canal system.
6.04      Concerning technical assistance to GOI for preparing CAD projects
discussions would be held between GOI and the Association and a detailed
plan of operation would be drawn up by April 1975.
Tendering Requirements
6.05      A construction schedule drawn up by the Chief Engineer, PWD (Major
Irrigation), GOAP sets the minimum time required for constructing all four
sections except for portions of the road bridge and including the installa-
tion of 75% of the gates, at three and one-half construction seasons, i.e.,
by June 1978 the essential portions of the barrage to secure water supplies
to tle delta would be completed. To meet the above construction schedule,
the following tendering schedule would have to be adhered to:
Civil Works Tender
Tender notification with brief
description of works                    January 10, 1975
Review of tender documents by IDA          January 25, 1975
Issue of tender                            February 10, 1975
Openings of bids                           April 15, 1975
Award of tender after IDA review           July 15, 1975
Manufacture and erection of 175 spillway gates
Call for Prequalification                  February 1, 1975
Prequalification                           April 15, 1975
Review of tender documents by IDA          April 1975
Issue of tender                           Mfay 1, 1975
bid opening                                July 15, 1975'
Award of tender after [DA review           September 1975
Cost Recovery
6.06      With an estimated average annual family income of about Rs 7,500
(US$940), the farmers in the command area are prosperous, relative to rwst
other agricultural areas of India. If the existing weir were to fail, the
average annual farm income would be reduced to about Rs 2,000 (US$250). Thus,
the farmers in the area have a very considerable stake in the construction
of the barrage.



- 15 -
6.07      In sanctioning the construction of the project in 1969 the GOAP
imposed an advance betterment levy on the farmers at the rate of Rs 125/- per
ua (in addition to the regularly collected 0 & M charges) for a total amount
of Rs 50 million. This represents about 10% of the estimated total cost
of the project. Up to July 1974, Rs 35 million in levy had already been
collected. During appraisal, GOAP pointed out that any additional cost
recovery would be difficult to impose as the farmers do not perceive this
project as adding substantially to their current income. While recognizing
some logic in this argument, it is considered, that, in view of the relative
prosperity of the area, the concentration of land ownership and the need for
investments in many less prosperous areas of the State, it is imperative
that substantially all investment costs be recovered from the beneficiaries,
preferably on a progressive basis.
6.08      Assurances were obtained from GOAP that it would undertake such
arrangements as would be necessary to levy and collect from beneficiaries
of the barrage all investment costs, including interest of not less than
5% per annum thereon, over a perio4 of not more than fifteen years.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project under consideration is somewhat different from the
usual investment projects as the primary objective in this case is to ensure
continuation of existing benefits rather than to generate additional benefits.
The 120-year-old existing weir is the key structure in supplying irrigation
water to some 400,000 ha in the Godavari delta. Collapse of the weir would
be a major setback for the economy of a major rice-producing area of India.
7.02      Due in large part to the well-developed irrigation system, the
command area is currently under intensive cultivation, producing annually
about 1.4 million tons of paddy and about 2.2 million tons of sugarcane.
The annual net and gross values of production are estimated at Rs 900 million
(US$112.5 million) and Rs 1,680 million (US$210 million) respectively.
7.03      Disruption of the irrigation water supply because of a breach in
the weir would result in a loss of at least the major part of one kharif
crop and a whole rabi crop, amounting to a loss of about Rs 800 million
(US$100 million) in net value of production. Hopefully, during the dry
season following the failure of the weir it would be possible to plug the
breach and to restore temporarily the water supply for the next kharif crop.
However, if these efforts were to be unsuccessful, there would be no alter-
native for the farmers but to follow the cropping pattern prevailing in the
adjacent non-irrigated areas; the estimated annual production from the area
under rainfed conditions would be about 100,000 tons of paddy and about
180,000 tons of other crops like millets, pulses, oilseeds and chillies etc.
having a net value of production of about Rs 100 million (US$12.5 million).



- 16 -
7.04      The losses in terms of the net value of production, even though
large, fail to reflect the full impact of the weir failure on the area's
economy. The loss of agricultural production would mean unemployment
for much of the agricultural labor force as well as a depression in the
service industries such as marketing, milling, transportation and process-
ing, which are based upon the agricultural production in the project area.
Finally, on the national scale, a reduction of over 800,000 tons in rice
production would have serious implications for India's already difficult
foodgrain situation.
7.05      The existing weir has been in a precarious condition for the past
decade or so. As far back as 1965 a high-level expert committee found it
to be unreliable and recommended immediate construction of a new barrage.
The weir has escaped a breach so far partly because it was not exposed to
prolonged flow patterns of a type which cause destructive erosion (Annex 3,
para 7) and partly because of the timely maintenance and repairs by the
PWD, GOAP. However, deterioration of the weir as a result of erosion and
piping is a cumulative process which even with the best of maintenance will
eventually cause failure. The assessment is that the existing weir is in
serious danger of failure and that even if the construction of a new barrage
were to be started right away and implemented as fast as physically possible
(four years), there is a relatively high probability that one of the sections
of the old weir would collapse before the new barrage was completed (Annex 9,
para 6(b)). The chances that alL four sections of the weir would survive
another 10 years are considered negligible.
7.06      The economies of constructing a new structure to replace the
existing one, once the old structure has failed, are obvious: using con-
servative estimates for production losses, the economic rate of return on
the investment in the new structure would be over 50%. Even if the construc-
tion costs were to be increased by 20%, the benefits further decreased by
20% and the construction period extended from four to six years, the rate
of return would still be over 35% (Annex 9).
7.07      The probabilities of failure for the various sections of the weir
have been assessed and using-them the various alternatives for the phasing
of the construction have been examined. In particular, the following three
alternatives have been examined in detail:
(a) Alternative A - A four-year implementation period,
representing the minimum time necessary to complete
the construction of all four sections of the barrage.
(b)  Alternative B - In this alternative the implementation
period is extended to six years.
(c) Alternative C - The construction is continued at the
current rate extending the implementation period to
ten years.



- 17 -
7.08      The appropriate criterion for comparing various construction
alternatives is the minimization of the present value of the expected costs,
where the costs include the construction costs and the expected losses in
production. Using the probability assessments of failure for the various
sections given in Annex 9, and assuming that if there is a break in the weir
it would be repaired before the onset of the next monsoon season, and using
10% as the annual cost of capital in the Indian economy, the present value
of the expected costs for the three alternatives is estimated at Rs 1,020
million (US$127.5 million), Rs 1,090 million (US$136.3 million) and Rs 1,350
million (US$168.8 million) respectively (Annex 9, para 9). The difference
of Rs 70 million (US$8.8 million) between alternative A and the next best
alternative B is almost 20% of the present value of the total construction
cost for the proposed barrage. A number of sensitivity tests indicate that
the ordering of the three alternatives is preserved even after substantial
changes in the assumptions about the probabilities of failure, the expected
losses associated with a failure, the construction costs and the opportunity
cost of capital. Thus, alternative A, corresponding to the fastest possible
construction schedule, is clearly superior to the other two.
7.09      Taking into account the estimated probabilities of failure and
related production losses, the expected economic rate of return for alter-
native A would be about 44%. Even if the construction costs were to be 20%
higher, the production losses associated with a weir failure were 20% lower
and the probabilities of failure substantially lower, the expected rate of
return for alternative A would still be 20% (Annex 9, para 10).
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurance was obtained fronm GOI that:
(a)  cement required for the project would be allocated as
part of Andhra Pradesh's annual allocation and if
necessary, such cement would be earmarked to the
Project by GOI, and if other building and construction
materials could not be supplied in accordance with the
detailed time-schedule for their supply, they would be
promptly imported (para 5.10).
8.02      Assurances on the following points were obtained from GOAP:
(a)  that materials required for emergency repairs would be
stockpiled and equipment to carry out the repairs would
be kept ready at the weir site (para 4.06);
(b)  that the accounts and financial statements of the project
would be submitted to the Association within six months
after the end of each fiscal year (para 5.12); and



- 18 -
(c)  that it would undertake such arrangements as shall be
necessary to levy and collect from beneficiaries of
the barrage all investment costs, including interest
of not less than 5% per annum thereon, over a period
of not more than fif-teen years (para 6.08).
8.03      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA credit of US$45.0 mLillion. The borrower would be the Govern-
ment of India.



Table 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Climatological Data!/
Mean                                                Mean
Average                                             Monthly
Monthly 2/    Monthly Max.3/    Monthly Min.3/    Relative
Month           RainfallB      (Mean) Te!p.-      (Meand Tesp.-      Humidit ;2
(ram)             (C1)              (C)            (%)4
January             5.1             28.0              18.0            60
February           12.1             30.6              19.4            57
March              11.8             32.8              21.9             54
April              23.0             35.1             24.9             57
May               4e9.1             37.3              26.2            61
June              135.5             35.8              25.5            61
July              211.9             31.9              25.4             74
August            183.6             31.4              25.2             74
September         181.9             31.2              25.0             74
October           193.7             31.2              24.5            71
November           94.0             29.8              21.5             62
December            8.0             28.1              18.4            59
Annual Total    1,109.7
Source: Seed Multiplication and Agricultural Research Farm (S. M & A. R. Farm),
Smnlkota (East Godavari District)
1/ Period of Record 1964-1973
2/ Average for the project area
3/ At S. M. & A. R. Farm, Snalkota
4/ Recorded at 17.30 hrs.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Mean Monthly Flow and Annual Discharges in the
Godavari River at Dowlaiswaram
Mean Monthly Flow           3
Month                               (cu ft/sec - cusec)        a /sec
January                                   8,606                 244
February                                  6,872                 194
March                                     4,958                 140
April                                     3,983                 113
May                                       2,584                  73
June                                     32,330                 914
July                                    281,252               7,956
August                                  420,157              11,890
September                               372,689              10,547
October                                 150,264               4,252
November                                 39,241               1,099
December                                 14,272                 403
Mean Flow                               110,000 cusecs        3,113 a3/sec
Mean annual discharge                     3,540 thousand million cu ft
(TMC)    3
100,182 M m
Source: Public Works Department (Irrigation)
Andhra Pradesh



GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Current Production From the Project Area
Gross Value                Net Value                  Gross      Net Value
Farm          of        Production       of          Area      Value of        of
Yield    Gate Price   Production      Costal!    Production       in      Productimn  Production
Crop           tonAia   _S/ton          Rs/ha        R/ha       _  Rs/ha      1,000 ha   Rs Million   Rs Million
Khariff
Rice (Paddy) Local     2.35        950        2,235        1,000          1,235       200          447           247
n HV      2.9         950        2,755       1,360         1,395        175          482           245
Rabi
Rice (Paddy) Local     2.2         950        2,090        1,000          1,090        30            63           33
t   HYV        3.5         950        3,325        1,360        1t,965        120          399           236
Pulses                 0. 4o     1,750          700          400            300        32            22           10
Edible 0ilseeds        0.30      1,80P0         540           300           240        25            13            6
ChiUies./              0.75      2,800        2,100        1 ,500           600        5             10            3
Annual
Sugarcane/            80.00        100        8,000        3,700          4,3oo       28           224           120
Total    615         1,660           900
Cropping Intensity     154%
1/ Including labor costs (both family and hired) valued at thf average market wage rate of Rs ) per day.
2/ Irrigated.
3/ Average of the main crop and two ratoon crops.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
The Existing Weir and Implications of Its Failure
General,
1.        The existing weir across the Godavari at Dowlaiswaram was construct-
ed between 1847 and 1852. It consists of four sections: Dowlaiswaram,
Ralli, Maddur, 400 m3/sec and Vizzeswaram, separated by three small islands.
The structure diverts 400 m3/sec into three canals, serving the Eastern,
Central and Western Godavari Districts. The weir, founded on sand, consists
of two rows of wells constructed of clay bricks, 1.82 m apart. For the
Dowlaiswaram, Maddur, and Vizzeswaram sections the wells were taken down
to elevation + 5.22 m and + 4.80 m respectively.  In the Ralli section the
wells were sunk to elevation + 6.70 m and founded on dumped rubble. The
body of the weir is built of 1.50 m thick rubble masonry, finished with
0.90 m thick outstone masonry.  The downstream slope is made of 1.50 m thick
rubble masonry and finished with 0.30 m diameter stones. The fall between
the end of the downstream slope and the riverbed is negotiated by a riprap
slope, with rubble masonry training walls which extend some 100 m downstream
from the axis of the weir. The original crest elevation was at + 11.50 m.
2.        As irrigation water demand in the Command Area increased, the weir
crest was raised by 0.23 m, and 0.60 m high steel shutters were added,
raising the pond level to 12.33 m. In 1936, new shutters were installed,
bringing the pond level to elevation + 12.64, some 1.14 m higher than in
the original design. The raised crest and the installation of the shutters
have significantly increased the design head on the dam. The gradual decay
of the 120-year-old structure and the extra strain of the higher pond level
have seriously weakened the weir, especially in the Dowlaiswaram and Ralli
sections.
3.        The primary cause of deterioration has been erosion on the down-
stream side of the weir, due in part to flows across the weir but also in
some areas to strong lateral flows along the toe of the weir. The secondary
cause of deterioration has been piping under the weir. During the dry
season the ponded water behind the weir causes piping and the formation of
cavities under the rubble masonry structure. At maximum pond level, seepage
gradients are too steep at 3.5 horizontal to 1.0 vertical. Numerous cavities
are continuously located by using electrical resistivity tests and then
verified by breaking open the dam. After the heavy floods of 1963, gaps as
wide as 0.45 m were observed between the downstream wells of the Dowlaiswaram
section, with all the supporting subsoil washed out. The load of the weir



ANNEX 3
Page 2
was transmitted directly to these wells, causing buckling and the disintegration
of the clay bricks. The floods also caused extensive scouring in the apron
of the Ralli section.
4.        During the 1973 flood season, some 150 m of the Ralli section
settled by more than 0.30 m. The weir was again examined by electrical
resistivity methods and by drilling holes through the outstone masonry.
The settlement was again caused by piping and the formation of cavities.
5.        Repairs have consisted of replacing and strengthening the apron
(grouted-stone and dry-stone pitching), construction of cross-bunds or
groynes to control lateral flow, grouting to fill voids beneath the weir,
and placing of a clay blanket with stone protection on the upstream side of
the weir to reduce under-seepage and piping.  The repairs have only been
partially successful.
6.        During the field examination the mission observed visible signs
of deterioration on all four sections, although the Maddur and the Vizzes-
waram sections appeared to be in a somewhat better shape than the other two.
Conditions for failure by piping or erosion or both exist in all four sections,
and any unusual flood pattern could cause failure in one of the sections.
Quantitative assessments of the life expectancy of the various sections is
given in Annex 9 para 6(b).
Description of Likely Failure
7.        Failure would most likely occur as a sudden settlement of a portion
of the weir during a period of maximum hydraulic gradient early in the mon-
soon with formations of open shear cracks on either side of the area of settle-
ment (model studies indicate that flows of the order of 2.0-2.5 m3/sec/meter
over the weir are the most damaging as far as erosion of the apron is con-
cerned). Concentrated flows through these cracks would cause a rapid widen-
ing by lateral erosion (typically, the differential head through the crack
would be about 3.0 m).  Velocities of about 6-7 m/sec would be experienced
as soon as an open breach was formed, causing rapid downward erosion into
the sand below the structure and undermining of the old brick caissons.
Failure would progress laterally as long as the differential head across the
breach remained more than 1.0 m. Assuming that the failure occurred in late
June, flows through the breach would continue without possibility of repair
until October or November. By that time, the breach would be a major one,
probably some 100-200 m wide and of considerable depth. Reconstruction would
take at least one low-flow season.
Agricultural Implications of Weir Failure
8.        The agricultural consequences of the failure, assumed to occur
after transplanting of the kharif crop, would most likely be as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(a) MNost of the kharif rice crop and sugarcane would fail
completely and the portions which survived would most
probably give very much reduced yields. As for rabi
crops, there would be no rice as it can be cultivated
only with irrigation, and the area under the other rabi
crops would also be greatly reduced due to lack of
residual soil moisture.
(b)  In the event the failure continues over the following
year, farmers would have no alternative but to follow
the prevailing cropping pattern of rain-fed agricul-
ture in the adjacent non-irrigated areas where kharif
crops include about 15% upland rice, 35% jowar, 25% ptulses
and 25,c edible oilseeds and chillies, and there are
little or no rabi crops. On this basis, the yearly
production from the command area would be only 65,000
tons rice, 100,000 tons jowar, 35,000 tons pulses and
35,000 tons of oilseeds and chillies (Table 1).
Engineering Implications of Weir Failure
9.        Effect on Riverbed.  Assuming that a failure occurs early in the
flood season, the recurring floods could ultimately wash out a major portion
of the affected sections and deeply scour the riverbed in the breached area
and gradually upstream into the reservoir.
10.       Effect on Design of New Barrage.  A major breach in a section of
the old barrage before the new barrage is constructed would require a change
in design of the barrage for the affected section as follows:
(a) The affected old section would have to be removed
completely.
(b)  The deeply scoured r iverbed would have to be back-
filled with a compacted sandy or gravelly material
to provide a foundation for the new barrage. Also,
there would be the possibility that the section would
have to be relocated.
(c) The reinforced concrete apron used to form the hydraulic
jump downstream from the gates would have to be placed
much lower and the lengths of the steel sheet piling
increased to compensate for the lack of the backlwater
effect produced by the weir.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
11.       Alternatively, the present design could be used and a baffled
reinforced concrete drop structure added to the end of the hydraulic jump-
apron to take the fall in river water surface instead of lowering the
apron as described above. The added steel sheet piling length would still
be required.
12.       Increase in Cost.  Due to the additional work required, a major
failure in the existing weir before the new barrage is completed would result
in a significant increase in the construction cost of the new barrage section.
Also, there might be a delay in construction due to the need for additional
hydraulic model studies, new designs and added construction features.



MhDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Possible Cropping Pattern & Production From Project Area Without IrriUation
Grous Value                Net Value                 Gross       Net Value
Farm          of        Production        of         Area     Value of         of
Yield   Gate Price   Production       Costa91    Production       in     Production   Production
Crop            ton/ha    Rs/ton         Rs/ha        Rs/ha         Rs/ha      1,000 ha  Rs Million   Rs Million
Khariff
Rice (Paddy) Upland    1.67       950          1,590          900           690          60        95            41
millet (Ragi)          0.75        700           525          400           125         140         73           17
Pulses                 0.33     1,750            580          400           180         100        58            18
Edible Oilseeds        0.25     1,800            450          300           150          60        27             9
Chillies               0.50     2,800.         1,400        1,100           300          43        60            13
Total   403       313            98
Say Rs 100 Million
Rabi
Nil
1/   -c' uding -:.bor costs (both family & hired) valued at the average market wage rate of
R- a ner d



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
A. Project Works
1.        The project comprises the execution of all works necessary for
the completion of the Godavari Barrage, other than works now under contract
in the Ralli section. The project also includes funds for the preparation
of a second phase Command Area Development project and assistance to GOI
for preparing CAD projects in other parts of India. The general layout of
the complete barrage is shown in Chart 8978. The proposed new barrage will
consist of four sections.
Length            Number of
in meters             gates
Dowlaiswaram              1,437.92              70
Ralli                       884.45              43
Maddur                      469.64              23
Vizzeswaram                 800.64              39
3,592.67             175
The Ralli section, typical of all four, is shown in Charts No. 8979, 8980.
Total structural height, from top of gate-operating platform to bottom of
concrete cut-off, is about 17.50 m. Steel sheet-piles or a concrete curtain
wall extend down a further 5.00 m.  The structure comprises essentially a
heavily reinforced concrete slab, 1.37 m thick and 25.00 m long, forming
the sill, together with reinforced concrete gate piers 2.13 m thick, spaced
to provide bays for steel leaf gates 12.27 m long and 3.60 m high.  Steel
sheet-piles or a concrete curtain wall are provided at the upstream and
downstream limits of the sill slab. For erosion protection, a mat of lneavy
concrete blocks 0.90 m thick is provided, both upstream and downstream of
the slab, and on the upstream side a supplemental 1.50 m thick mat of heavy
stone. The sill slab is located some 24.00 m upstream from the existing
weir crest, which will remain in place as an extension to the downstream
protective apron of the barrage. The crest of the existing weir will be
lowered from the present E.L. + 11.73 m to E.L. + 10.67 m. Double piers,
with integral contraction joints, divide the sill slab structurally into
lengths of not more than ten spillway bays. The piers support a reinforced
concrete road bridge 7.50 m wide, as well as the gate operating platform.
The barrage is founded on sand (bedrock is at great depth) with some local
horizons of stiff, silty clay. In the Vizzeswaram section a thick continuous
bed of silty clay occurs across the whole length of the structure at a
depth of about 6.00 m below the bottom of the sill slab.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.        The increased pond level in the new barrage would permit diversion
of flows at elevation + 13.64 meters instead of at the present elevation
of + 12.64 meters. The resulting additional pondage and higher head in
the canals would enable the dry season irrigation of an additional 5,000 ha
in the Delta and a somewhat large and earlier start of the water supplies at
the beginning of the rainy season.
B. Review of Design
Foundations
3.        The area beneath the barrage has been explored by drive-sampling,
generally to a depth of 15 to 18 meters. The exploratory holes were in three
rows parallel to the barrage axis and consisted of from two to three holes
for each of the 175 bays.
4.        The foundation consists primarily of well-graded sand, about 90Z
of the material being between 0.1 mm and 1.0 mm in size, with lenses of
silty clay, clay and gravel, and clay interspersed in the foundation at
varying depths. The clay lenses are generally at least 7.0 m below the
bottom of the reinforced concrete raft where the surchage load is very low.
The clay layers are therefore not structurally significant except possibly
for a small area at the right end of the Ralli section where the clay is
near the bottom of the slab and for a portion of the Vizzeswaram section.
5.        The silty-clay in the Vizzeswaram section has a liquid limit in
the range of 40 to 70 with a plastic index in the range of 20 to 35 and can
be described as inorganic clay of medium plasticity. The silty clays
elsewhere have slightly greater plasticity. The strength of the silty
clays in the Vizzeswaram section are generally of the order of 0.7 kg/sq
cm (1.6 Kips/sq ft) as obtained in triaxial shear tests (consolidated
undrained at field moisture capacity). The friction angle is 100 to 150.
Impact penetration tests (Raymond sampler) were generally in the range
of eight to nine blows per foot of penetration. Impact penetration tests
in the sand and silty sands generally ranged from 10 to 25 blows per foot
of penetration, indicating in general an adequate foundation.
6.        Wherever clay lenses are found at shallow depths they are removed
and backfilled with sand and compacted. In places where thick clay layers
at deeper depths are encountered it is not economical or practical to
remove these layers. They are preloaded in advance of construction with a
sufficient depth of sand to create the design load. Drains are installed
in the layers to relieve pore pressure, and settlement is allowed to take
place. In the Vizzeswaram section some modification of foundation design
is necessary to reduce 9treSse~s.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        In considering the foundation for the barrage it should be kept
in mind that loading from the existing weir approximates the loading of the
new barrage. It appears that settlement from load has not been a problem
for the old weir. The settlements that have occurred were the result of
piping with the masonry settling into the cavities. For additional
security, the bearing area of the new barrage is confined by sheet piling.
Seepage
8.        A primary consideration for the safety of the barrage is security
against underseepage (piping). The design makes adequate provisions for this.
With the two rows of sheet piling, or concrete curtain walls upstream and
downstream a weighted creep path (Lane's method) of 8.5 is provided. A value
of 8.5 is considered safe for most materials. If the existing weir should
be breached and scour occur immediately downstream from the sheet piling,
the weighted creep path would be reduced to 6.5 which is still a safe value
for this type of foundation material. Check calculations for the expected
scour in the breach confirm this assumption.
Structural Design
9.        A structural design review of the barrage indicates adequate
thickness and reinforcement for the weir slab and piers. The barrage is
constructed in continuous units of 10 gate bays and piers, per unit. Double
piers are provided at the junction between the units. An examination of
the Ralli section, now under construction, showed no shrinkage cracks. Tying
a large number of bays together has the effect of increasing the safety of
the dam, allowing for a generally strong foundation to compensate for local
areas of less strength. Also, scour areas that might occur because of
failure of the old weir would have to be longer and deeper to affect the
foundation of the barrage. The concrete used is of 2,500 psi strength for
structural work, and 1,500 psi for gravity blocks (28-day strengths).
Working stresses have been taken as 750 psi for concrete in compression,
75 psi in shear, and 18,000 psi for reinforcement. These values are con-
sidered appropriate for the construction techniques used in India.
Hydraulic Design
10.       Extensive hydraulic modeling of the barrage by three-dimensional
model at the Poona Laboratory and two-dimensional model at the Hyderabad
Laboratory has been made. These model tests were used to determine expected
water surfaces upstream and downstream for each of the four sections of
the barrage, distribution of flow among the sections, distribution of flow
downstream between the Gautami and Vasista branches, approach flow conditions,
tailwater exit conditions and adequacy of the barrage stilling pool. The
mission observed the flow in the two-dimensional hydraulic model at Hyderabad
and recommended rounding of the upstream edge of the piers above 15.24 meters
elevation.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Use of the Old Weir in the New Barrage
11.       The design of the new barrage incorporates the existing weir as
a downstream protective apron and for the dissipation of energy, by a
hydraulic jump on the weir apron. By dismantling the shutters and
decapitating the weir, the seepage head will be reduced by some 2.0 m and
the safety of the old weir structure assured. The old weir will be covered
with a 0.15 meter thick layer of concrete. Hydraulic model studies indicate
that the hyraulic jump on the downstream face of the old weir will become
submerged at a flow of some 8,900 m3/sec (flow concentration of 2.5 m3/sec/m),
reducing erosive action on the weir. Although maintenance of the old weir will
have to be continued, the costs will not be significant.  In case tne existing
weir is breached after the new barrage is completed, the new barrage will
remain protected by the downstream sheet pile curtain. The barrage would
continue to operate with no interruption in the delivery of water. Closing
the appropriate spillway gates would enable the repair of the breached
section by backfilling with a suitable pervious material and providing a
0.90 meter thick concrete block apron.
C. Construction Method
12.       The construction season lasts from late November to the middle of
June. As it is impractical to carry coffer-dams to above flood levels, the
work would be divided into portions of such size that foundation excavation,
sheet piling or construction of the curtain walls, placement of concrete and
construction of piers to above high water level can be completed during one
working season.  The overall length of the barrage is some 4,000 m, divided
into four sections by three fairly large islands. At present, the only means
of approach to the barrage sections is a single-lane road on top of the
existing weir. Provided approach roads are built from the left bank quarries
to the worksites, construction could be carried out simultaneously in all
four sections. At the start of each construction season, several such
approach roads would be built through the riverbed, downstream of the existing
weir. Aggregates would be centrally batched at one or two batching elants
located on the river banks or the islands. Concrete (some 300,000 m3) would
be either centrally mixed and conveyed to the sites or mixed near each of the
work sites. After dewatering of the construction area behind the coffer-dams,
the two rows of sheet piles would be driven to the required depth or the
concrete curtain wall constructed. Excavation of foundations for the
upstream and downstream aprons would follow. The portion covered by the
reinforced concrete slab would then be excavated to the required shape and
compacted, taking care that all clay lenses are removed and filled with
compacted sand. Following the excavation of the pile caps to the required
depth and their concreting, the concreting of the slab section would be
completed. During this operation the stainless steel crest gate guides and
stop log grooves would be put into place. On completion of the slab, the
raising of the piers and the construction of the gate lifting platform and
bridge would be completed. As soon as a sufficient number of bays have
been completed, the vertical gates and hoist arrangements would be installed.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
D. Second Phase Command Area Development Project in the Godavari Delta
13.       Project preparation for a CAD project would include studies for
the:
(a) Socio-economic profile of the area with particular emphasis
on the existing farm size distribution and land tenure
situation;
(b) Rehabilitation and modernization of the water conveyance
system;
(c) Drainage plan for the affected areas;
(d) Extension to the feeder road network;
(e) Groundwater study to investigate the feasibility of a large-
scale groundwater development project to permit an increase
in the rabi water supply;
(f) On-farm development works;
(g) Improvements to the agricultural support services;
(h) Economic and financial evaluation of the proposed developments,
including an analysis of the likely effects on small farmers
and landless laborers; and
(i) Recovery of investment costs.
The preparation report will follow the project preparation outlines for the
Pochampad/Nagarjunsagar Command Area Development Projects currently under
preparation by the Command Area Development Department of GOAP.
E. Assistance to the GOI in Project Preparation for Command Area
Development Projects in Other Parts of India
14.       The project also includes funds for the Water kanagement Division
of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture of GOI to assist in project prep-
aration of a number of Command Area Development Projects in other States of
India. Over the next five-year period, a large number of irrigation projects
(each with a CAD element) would be prepared for Bank Group financing.
Present arrangements for project preparation, with short term technical
assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, are totally inadequate.
The Water Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture needs to hc
strengthened by a suitably qualified irrigation and land development



ANNEX 4
Page 6
engineer, an irrigation agronomist, and an extension specialist. The team
would be recruited by the Bank, on fixed term appointments, and seconded to
GOI for a two-year period at a cost of approximately US$0.4 million. A
revolving fund of US$0.5 million would also be made available to GOI for
onlending to the States to cover project preparation costs in the field,
particularly the cost of pilot on-farm development operations in the projects.
These pilot developments are essential for project preparation to try out
construction techniques and organizational set ups and to monitor farmers'
reaction to the proposed developments.



ANNEX 5
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Contingency Plan for Failure of the Old Weir
1.        There is a high probability that one of the four sections of the
existing weir would be breached during the four-year construction period
(Annex 9, para 6). If that happens, then to prevent the loss of agricultural
production and damage to the riverbed it would be essential that the breach
be plugged immediately.
2.        Following the failure of a similar weir on the Krishna river in
September 1952, a system was developed to carry out emergency repairs. The
success of the emergency repairs was a result of considerable ingenuity on
the part of the engineers involved but also very much due to the relatively
small initial breach (about 40 m) as well as favorable stages of the river
subsequent to the breach.
3.        The repairs consisted in loading old steel barges (weighing about
30 tons) with stones and floating them down from a steamer anchored in the
riverbed some 100 m upstream of the breach. When the barges reached a point
sufficiently near the breach, holes were cut on the side of the barges. The
barges were then released from the steamer so that they sank exactly at the
breach site. In all, 42 barges were sunk. The intervening spaces between
the barges were filled with rough stones. Through these repairs the breach
was closed in a short period of 12 days, thus avoiding any significant
damages to either the crops or the riverbed.
4.        It is unlikely that the circumstances accompanying a possible
failure of the Godavari weir would be as favorable as they were in the case
of the Krishna weir. It is possible that the initial breach would be too
large for emergency repairs or that the subsequent river flows would be too
high to permit a successful plugging operation. Nevertheless, to avail of
the favorable circumstances, if they occur, it was agreed during appraisal
that materials and equipment would be kept ready near the weir site for
imediate repairs to the damaged section.
5.        Some 50-60 barges, available for emergency service, are already
in stock at Dowlaiswaram. However, 30,000 m2 of stone blast costing about
US$300,000 would also have to be stored in advance. In case this stone is
not needed for emergency repairs during the construction, it could be used
for completing the downstream protective apron of the barrage. The proposed
emergency stockpile of stone would therefore not involve any significant
addition to the project cost.



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total          %
-    Rs Million -------    ---------US  Million------------
1e Civil Works
a. Dowlaiswaram Section
Site Preparation and Oe-rvce Roads    6.9          0.8      7.7      o.86     0.10      0.96        10
Construction of Weir                   26.9       9.0      35.9      3.36     1.12      4.48        25
Construction of Piers                  10.8       3.6      1J4.4     1.35     o.45      1.80        25
Stone Protection                        5.2        1.8      7.0      0.65     0.22      0.87        15
Dismantling of Old Weir                 0.2         -       0.2      0.03      -        0.03         -
Completion of Stone Protection          8.9        3.0     11.9      1.11     0.38      1.49        15
Road Bridge                             4.1        1.4      5.5      0.51     0.18      0.69        25
Miscellaneous                           -9         0.3               0.2 0.36  0.04     0.40        10
Subtotal                               65.9       19.9     85.8      8.23     2.h9    10.72
b. Ralli Section
Site Preparation and Service Roads    2.4          0.3      2.7      0.30     0.04      0.34        10
Construction of Weir                    2.8        1.0      3.8      0.35     0.12      o.47        25
Construction of Piers                   5.5        1.8      7.3      0.69     0.22      0.91        25
Stone Protection                        5.6        1.0      6.6      0.70     0.12      0.82        15
Dismantling of Old Weir                 0.2         -       0.2      0.03       -       0.03         -
Completion of Stone Protection         11.5        2.0     13.5      1.44     0.25      1.69        15
Road Bridge                             2.5        0.8      3.3      0.31     0.10      0.41        25
Miscellaneous                           1.0        0.1      1.1      0.13     0.01      0.14         7          PI
Subtotal                               31.5        7.0     38.5      3.95     0.86      4.81                    HHo 
i/ Exchange rate: Rs 8.00 = US$1.00,



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total         %
------Rs Million----             -$US  Million-----______
c. Maddur Section
Site Preparation and Service Roads    2.2        0.3      2.5     0.28     0.04      0.32       12
Construction of Weir                  9.6        3.2    12.8      1.20     0.40      1.60       25
Construction of Piers                 4,5        1.5      6.o     o.56     0.19      0.75       25
Stone Protection                      2,0        0.3      2.3     0.25     0.04      0.29       14
Dismantling of Old Weir               0.3         -       0.3     0.04       -       0.04        -
Completion of Stone Protection        2.0        0.4      2.4     0.25     0.05      0.30       17
Road Bridge                           1.3        0.5      1.8     0.16    o0o6       0.22       25
Miscellaneous                         0.8       01       0.9     0.10     0.01      0.11       10
Subtotal                             22.7        6.3     29.0     2.84      0.79     3.63
do Vizzeswaram Section
Site Preparation and Service Roads    3c9        0.4      4.3     0.49      0.05    0o54        10
Construction of Weir                  15.7       5.2     20.9     1.96      o.65     2.61       25
Construction of Piers                  7.7       2.6    10.3      0.96      0.32     1.28       25
Stone Protection                      3.3        o.6      3.9     0.41      0.08     0.49       15
Dismantling of Old Weir               0.2         -       0.2     0.03       -       0.03         -
Completion of Stone Protection        9.3        1.6     10.9     1.16      0.20     1.36       15
Road Bridge                            2.2       0.8      3.0     0.28      0.10     0.38       25
Miscellaneous                          1.4       0.2      1.6     0.17      0.03     0.20       15
Subtotal                             43.7       11.4     55.1     5.46      1.43     6.89
Subtotal(Civil Works)               163.8       44.6    208.4    20.48      5.57    26.o05
Physical Contingencies1 /
Civil Works 25sv                  41.0       11.1     52.1     5.12      1.39     6.51       22         m 
Total Civil Works                   204.8       55.7    260,5    25.60      6.96    32.56                     H 0
/ The contingencies cover a possible partial failure of the existing
weir during the four-year construction period of the barrage.



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total         %
Rs Million-------    ---------          US$ Million-----------
2. Mechanical Engineering Works
Fabrication of Gates                   20.8      4865    69.3    2.60       6.o6     8.66        70
Erection of Gates                       9.0       3.1     12.1    1.12      0.39     1651        25
Miscellaneous                           2.2      0o.       2.6    0.28      0.05     0.33       _15
Subtotal                               32.0      52.0     84.o    h.00      6650    10650
Physical Contingencies Mechanical
Engineering Works 15'%                4.8       7.8     12.6      o60      .98     1658        62
Total Mechanical Works                 36.8               96.6   14.60      7.48    12.08
3. Engineering and Supervision                   42.2       4.7    46.9    5.27    0o59         5.86       10
4, Estimated Price Increases
Civil Works, Mechanical
Engineering Works                    9865      33.6   13201   12.31       4.20    16651        25
Engineering and Supervision             9.3       3.1    12.h    1.16        .39    lo55         25
Total                              107.8       36.7    144.5  13.47       4.59    18.06
5. Assistance to GOI for Preparing
CAD Projects                                  4.8       2.4       7.2    Mo60     0.30      0.90       30
6.  Preparation of Second Phase Project           2.6       o.6       3.2    0.32     OoO8      0.40       20
Total Project Cost                    399.o     159,9    558.9   49.86    20.00    69.86
2/ Due to rounding off, the above figures may not exactly agree.  In addition
the Rupee portion has been used as the basis for conversion into Dollar equivalents.



ANNEX 7
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Equipment Requirements
1.        Estimated equipment requirements for the PWD's design and super-
vision activities and for transporting the building materials required for
construction of the barrage from the railhead to the PWD stores at
Dowlaiswaram are listed in the following table. This list should be used
as a guide only and would be revised during project implementation.
2.        Prices shown in the table include delivery to the project area
or to the PWD offices in Hyderabad in June 1974 currency. To obtain actual
costs for delivery in 1975, the prices have been escalated by 20%.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Quantity        Rs
a) Monitorinff Equipment to be Incorporated in the Barrage
Transmitters for soil pressure meters                            .o
Transmitters for reinforcement meters                            12
Transmitters for tilt meters                                      2
Receivers                                                         2           ...
Miscellaneous small items for installation
of the equipment
Subtotal                                                           350
b)  Equipment for PTD
Drafting machines                                                 o           ...
Automatic printing machines                                       2           ...
Xerox copier                                                       1
Photostat copier                                                  1
Electronic digital computer                                       1
Desk calculators                                                  6
Slide projector                                                   1
Cine projector                                                    1
Cine camera                                                       1
Miscellaneous office equipment
Subtotal                                                           ho,ooo
c)  Inspection Vehicles
Passenger vehicles                                                6        180,000
Field vehicles (four-wheel drive)                                22        660,000
Pick-up vans                                                     10        350,000
Subtotal                                                         1,190,000
d)  Transport Vehicles
Truck (5-ton)                                                    20      1,600,000
Tractor-trailer (ho-ton)                                           2     1,000,000
Dump truck (5-ton)                                                 2       300,000
Subtotal                                                          2,900,000
Total Cost (without price increase)                               ,8ho,o000
e) Estimated Price Increases                                                  960,000
Total Cost (with price increase)                                 5,800,000
Total Cost of Equipment aquals US 0.6 million
without price increase; and US$ .73 million, with
price increase of which foreign exchange (70%) is
US,0.51 million.



ANNEX 8
Table 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total     -------IDA Fiscal Years------------------
Cost      1974/75    1975/76    1976/77.   1977/78    1978/79
----------------     Rs Million---------------------
1. Civil Engineering
Works            208.4       20.8        72.9        72.9        31.4       10.4
2. Mechanical
Engineering
Works             84.o 08.               58.8         8.4         8.4
Subtotal         292.4       29.2       131.7        81.3        39.8       10.4
Physical
Contingencies    64.7          6.4       29.2        17.9         8.8        2.4
Subtotal         357.1       35.6       160.9        99.2        48.6       12.8
Expected Price
Increases:
%               37         17          31          42          53         64
Rs Million    132.1         6.1       _49.9        42.1        25.8        8.2
Subtotal         489.2       41.7       210.8       141.3        74.4       21.0
3. Engineering and
Supervision       46.9         4.7       16.4        16.4         9.4         -
Expected Price
Increases:
i             26         10          20          30         40
Rs Million   12.4        0.5          3.3         4.9        3.7
Subtotal          59.3         5.2       19.7        21.3        13.1         -
4.  Assistance to GOI
for Preparing
CAD Projects       7.2         5.0        2.2
5. Preparation of
Second Phase
Project            3.2         2.0        1.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST    558 y3-                  233.2      162.6        87.5        21.0
(1-5)



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Proposed       % of Expen-
Estimated Cost    Allocation of  diture
Category                                Total      Foreign  IDA Credit       Financed
-S----   U$ Million --
I.  Civil Works                         26.o5         5.57
Price  Contingencies              -.64         2.41
Subtotal                         35.69         7.98      28.2              79%
II. Mechanical Engineering Works
Including Equipment,Materials
and Erection                        10.50        6.50
Price Contingencies               3.89          .97
Subtotal                         14.39         7.47      13.7              95%
III.  Engineering and Supervision          5.86         0.59
Price Contingencies               1.55         0.39
Subtotal                           7.41        0.98        .6               8%
IV.  Second Phase Project Preparation   0.40           0.08      0.1              25%
V. Techical Assistance to GOI for
Preparation of CAD Projects          0.90        0.30       0.3              33%
VI. Unallocated
Physical Contingencies of
Categories I and II             8.09         2.37
Price Contingencies               2.98         0.82
Subtotal                         11.07         3.19       2.1              19%
Total                             69.86       20.00      45.00
/ As rounded off.



6NTE  8
Table 3
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year                              Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                  US$ Million Equivalent
1975
2nd                                                3.0
1976
1st                                                6.o
2nd                                               16.0
1977
1st                                               23.0
2nd                                               32.0
1978
lst                                               36.0
2nd                                               4Oo.o
1979
1st                                               43 0
2nd                                              1UL.0
1980
1st                                               45.0



ANNEX 9
Pate 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The economic evaluation of the Godavari Barrage Project is somewhat
complicated because of the difficulties involved in specifying the "without
project" situation. Unlike most other investment projects, the primary
objective of this project is to ensure the continuation of the existing
benefits rather than to generate additional benefits. The specification
of the "without project" situation requires the assessment of factors such
as:
(a) the life expectancies of the four sections of the
old weir;
(b)  the timing, location and size of the likely breach;
(c) the prospects of successfully plugging the breach;
and
(d) the magnitude of the production losses likely to
accompany a breach in the weir.
Answers to aly of the above are essentlally a matter of speculatior  -JJ
must necessarily be highly subjective.
2.        For the sake of simplicity the economic amialysis is divided
into two parts:
(a) Assuming that the existing weir has collapsed,
is the construction of a new barrage justified
economically? The answer to this question depends
upon the estimated construction costs for the
proposed new barrage and the loss in net value of
production which would be prevented by the new
barrage.  An affirmative answer to this question -is
a necessary condition for any construction at all.
(b) If the answer to part (a) is yes, then how should
the construction of the new barrage be phased over
time? Ideally, the construction of the various
sections should be phased such that each sectior
of the new barrage is comlpleted just ahead of tLe



ANNEX 9
Page 2
time at which the corresponding section of the old
weir were to collapse. In practice it is impossible
to predict accurately such timing and accordingly,
the construction must be phased so as to strike a
balance between the risks associated with delayed
construction and the interest charges incurred through
a "premature" construction.
Should a New Barrage be Constructed?
3.        The following assumptions were made for analyzing the first
question:
(a)  Construction Costs:  All construction costs except
price contingencies (Rs 144 million), the cost of preparing
a second phase project (Rs 3 mi llion) and the assistance
to GOI for preparing CAD projects (Rs 7.2 million) are
included in the economic analysis.
(b)  Cost of Materials:  The estimated construction costs include
about Rs 64 million for the procurement of materials such
as cement, reinforcing steel, steel plates and sheet piles.
These materials are in short supply in India and would be
procured by the PWD, Andhra Pradesh, at controlled prices,
which are roughly one-half of their free market prices.
Accordingly, for economic analysis the construction
materials are shadow-priced at 200% of their controlled
prices.
(c)  Physical Contingencies:  Even though the civil engineering
works are relatively simple, physical contingencies at
the rate of 25% have been included in the cost estimates
to cover the complications which iight arise from a partial
failure of the existing weir during construction. Ideally,
the margin for this contingency shoul1d depend upon the
particular construction sclhedule, being higher for
alternatives with longer implementation period. For simplicity,
however, in the following analysis it is assumed to be the
same for all construction alternatives.
(d)  Project Benefits:  Annex 2, Table 1 shows the current cropping
pattern, yields, prices, gross returns, production costs and
net returns per ha for various crops, in the command area of
the weir.  Annex 3, Table 1 shows the same for the rainfed
agriculture whicl would follow the collapse of the old weir.
The higher pond level envisaged for the new barrage would make
it possible to irrigate additional 4-5,000 ha during the rabi
season. In addition, the average paddy yields would be



ANNEX 9
Page 3
increased by the earlier trans planting in the lower
delta (para 5.05). For simplicity, however, these
incremental benefits are not included in the analysis
and it is assumed that the production with the new
barrage would be the same as the current production.
Since the current commodity prices are unusually high
because of particularly bad crops during the recent
years, the prices used in the economic analysis are the
farm gate prices derived from the projected world market
prices in 1980. kLl farm labor has been priced at its
average market wage rate of Rs 4 per day.
On this basis the annual net value of production "with"
and "without" the barrage is estimated to be Rs 900
million (US$112.5 r.illion) and Rs 100 million (US$12.5
million) repsectively, giving imputed annual project
benefits of Rs 800 million (US$100 million).  The full
project benefits are assumed to start immediately
after the completion of the new barrage.
4.         Assuming a 50-year life for the new barrage, the economic rate of
return is estimated to be over 50, (Table 1).  Even if it is assumed that
the construction costs increase by 20%, benefits decrease by 20% and the
implementation schedule increases by two years, the rate of return would
still exceed 35%.  The unusually high rate of return merely confirms the
intuitive judgement that in view of the crucial importance of the weir to
the project area, in the event of a failure, it should be replaced as fa.;
as possible.
Phasing of Construction
5.         In theory the number of combinations in which the construction W
the four sections can be phased is very large. However, a number of practi,.zi
considerations, e.g. the data quality and the computational complexity, make
it imperative that the analysis be restricted to a few "najor" altern.L!_
In the following analysis three alternatives are considered:
Alternative A, corresponds Lo the four-year implementa-
tion period prcmposed in this report. This period re-
presents the minimun; tine necessary to complete all four
sections of the barrage, assuming that there are no
constraints due to either the lack of funds or the un-
availability of construction  mlaterials.  In this alLer--
native, the Ralli and the Maddur sections are secured
after three years of construction.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Alternative B, has been tentatively proposed by the GOI.
In this alternative the implementation period is extended
to six years and the Ralli, Dowlaiswaram, Maddur and
Vizzeswaram sections are secured after three, four,
five and six years of construction respectively.
Alternative C, assumes that the annual budgetary
allocations to this project can not be increased
very much beyond the levels of the past three years
and that the implementation period would be extended
to 10 years. In this alternative the Ralli, Dowlaiswaram,
Vizzeswaram and Maddur sections are secured after three,
six, eight and ten years of construction respectively.
6.        The following assumptions are made in addition to those made
earlier in para. 3:
(a) Description of the Likely Breach: It is assumed
that the breach, if it occurs, would occur during the
early monsoons (late June-early July) and would be-
come 100-200 meters wide. It is further assumed
that the high river flows in the ensuing period would
rule out the possibility of undertaking any repair
work until the end of monsoons (late October - early
November); however, by the end of the dry season (next
June) a solution would be found to plug the breach
and to bring the structural soundness of the old
weir to the pre-breach standards. Thus, disruption
of the water supply would lead to a total loss of
one rabi crop and a large part of one kharif
crop (para 8, Annex 3). For simplicity, it is
conservatively assumed that the loss in NVP would be
the same as the annual loss estimated in para. 4.
(b)  Life Expectancy of the Old Weir:  The following
assessment assumes that the principal factor governing
the collapse of the weir is the occurrence of floods
of a certain threshhold level. however, even other
floods have a detrimental effect on the structural
condition of the weir through gradual wear and tear.
The occurrence of the destructive flood is a random
event whose probability would increase with the passage
of time because of the gradual deterioration of the
weir.
It is estimated that the probabilities of failure
during the next year (year 1) for Ralli, Dowlaiswaram,
Vizzeswaram and Maddur sections are 10%, 10%, 5/ and
3% respectively. It is further estimated that the



ANNEX 9
Page 5
conditional probabilities of failure in a subsequent
year, assuming that the respective sections are
still operative, i.e. either they have not failed
or they have been repaired, would increase at an
annual rate of 1% for the Ralli and the Dowlaiswaram
sections and at a rate of 1/2% for the Maddur and
the Vizzeswaram sections. Thus, for example, the
conditional probability that the Dowlaiswaram
section would fail in year 4, assuming that it has
not failed until the end of year 3, is estimated at
13%. For simplicity, it is assumed that the pro-
babilities of failure for the four sections are
independent of each other so that a failure in one
section would not affect the probabilities of failure
in the other sections. Notice that it is possible,
though unlikely, that the same sections can fail
more than once or two sections can fail in the same
year.
The conditional probabilities estimated above can
be used to derive the probability of weir failure
during a given year for various construction alter-
natives. Thus, for example, the probability of weir
failure in year four under alternative A is merely
the probability that either the Dowlaiswaram or the
Vizzeswaram section would fail during the year which
is equal to 1- (1-0.13)(1--0.065) = 0.19.
Three main implications oE the above assessment are
worth emphasizing here:  (i) the probability that
at least one of the four sections would be breached
during the next year is quite large; there is a
one in four chance that this may happen; the pro-
bability that all four sections of the old weir
would survive four more years is only 30%, thus even
under alternative A there is a high probability of
weir failure before completion of the new barrage;
and (iii) the probability that all four sections of
weir would last 10 years Js less than 1%, making it
almost a certainty that within 10 years one of the
sections would be breachect.
7.        The appropriate criterion for comparing the various construction
alternatives is the minimization of the present value of the expected costs,
where the costs include the construction costs and the expected losses in
production. It is assumed that in the Indian economy the opportunity cost
of capital is 10% per annum.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
8.        Under these assumptions the present value of the expected costs for
altermatives A, B and C is found to be Rs 1,020 million, Rs 1,090 million
and Rs 1,350 million respectively, indicating the superiority of alternative
A over the other two (Table 2). The difference of Rs 70 million between
alternative A and the next best alternative B is 1996 of the present value
of (shadowed) construction costs of Rs 368 million.
9.        Sensitivity Analysis.  Tests were made to determine the sensiti-
vity of the ranking of three alternatives to various assumptions. Some of
the more important results are as follows:
Total Expected Cost Differences in Expected Costs
.... (Rs Million) ...           (Rs Million).
Assumption            Alt. A Alt. B Alt. C Alt. B - Alt. A Alt. C - Alt. A
(a) Base run                1,020  1,090  1,350           70            330
(b) 20% increase in
expected production
losses                  1,180  1,280  1,610          100            430
(c) 20% reduction in
expected production
losses                    890    940  1,135           50            245
(d) Opportunity cost of
capital increased
to 15%                    920    960  1,130           40            210
(e) 20% increase in
construction costs    1,085  1,150  1,400             65            315
(f) Lower probabilities
of failure for the
various sections /a       765    815  1,015           50            250
(g) Combination of (c)
and (d)                   800    825    955           25            155
(h) Combination of (c),
(d) and (e)               865    885  1,005           20            140
(i) Combination of (c),
(d), (e) and (f)          680    685    760            5             80
/a   The probabilities of failure during the next year (year 1) for Ralli,
Dowslaiswaram, Vizzeswaram and Maddur sections are reduced to 5%, 5%,
3% and 2% respectively. The annual rates of increase for the con-
ditional probabilities in subsequent years are assumed to be the same
as earlier.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Thus, alternative A remains superior to the other two for wide variations
in the various parameters. Even in the highly unlikely situation where
the cost of capital is 15%, expected production losses because of weir
failure are 20% lower, construction costs are 20% higher and the probabilities
of failure for the various sections are substantially lower, alternative A
is still preferable to alternative B.
10.       Assuming "no construction'" to be the "without project" situation and
taking into account the estimated probabilities of failure, the expected rate
of return on alternative A is estimated to be 44%. Given below are the
results of some of the tests conducted to determine the sensitivity of the
rate of return to variation in various estimates.
Assumption                                Rate of Return
(a)  Base Run                                             44%
(b)  20% increase in expected production losses           49%
(c)  20% decrease in expected production losses           37%
(d)  20% increase in construction costs                   35%
(e) Lower probabilities of failure for the
various sections (as irn 9(f))                     33%
(f)  Combination of (c), (d) and (e)                      20%
Thus even after allowing for substantial margins of error in the various
base estimates, the project would still have a high rate of return.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Costs
Year           Construction        O&M      Benefits
 (Rs million)-----------
1                  40             -          -
2                 205             -          -
3                 145             -          -
4                  70             -          -
5                  10            35         800
6
h                   _
*~~~~~~~ S
50                   -            35         800
Economic Rate of Return:  69Z



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
Economic hAialysis of Construction Phasina
Alternative A                                                Alternative B                                                Alternative C
Expected                         Present                     Expected                         Present                     Expected                          Present
Prob.of     Loss in    Const.   Total    Value of            Prob.of     Loss in    Const.   Total    Value of            Prob.of      Loss in     Const.   Total    Value of
Year      Failure   Production    Cost        Cost   Total Cost         Failure   Production    Cost       Cost   Total Cost         Failure   Production    Cost        Cost    Total Cost
. . . . . . .(Million Rs). . . . . . . .                     . . . . . . .(Million Rs). . . . . . . .                     . . . . . . .(Million Rs). . . . . . . .
1         0.25         200          40       240        21E             0.25        200          40       240         218            0.25        7nn          40        240         Z18
2         0.28         224         205      429         354             0.28        224          90       314         259            0.28        224          45       269          222
3         0.30-1-/   240           145       385        289             0.30        240          90       330         248            0.30        240           45      285          214
2/4/                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
4          0.19  -    152           70       222         152            0.22-       176          90       266         182            0.22         176          50       226         154
3/
5           -           -           10        10          6             0.12-        96          80       176         109            0.24         192          S0       242         150
-               4/                                                            2/
6                                                                       0.07         56          70       126          71            0.26         208          50       258         146
1.019
7                                                                        -           -           10        10           5            0.13         104          50       154          79
4/ 
8                                                (Say 1,020)                                                                         0.14-        112          50       162          75
1,092
9                                                                                                                   -                0.07          56          50       106          45
3/
1O                                                                                                              (Say 1,090)           0.08          64          40       104          40
11                                                                                                                                      -           -           10        10           4
1,347
(Say 1,350)
1/  Completion of Ralli section.
I  Completion of Dowlaiswaram section.
3/  Completion of Maddur section.
4/  Completion of Vizzeswaram section.



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
[I        Cii .a.r u PRHIEF ENGINEEER
( MAJOR IRRIGATION WORKS, HYDERABAJ|
DEPUTY CHEF ENGINEER
ENGINEER FOR QUALITYI     LABOUR WELFARE           PRO
CONYTROLC               OFFICER                    A  SITN
ANO RESEARCI
L7 INTECEING ENGI                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER
VIL)                                                                       (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MECHANICAL)
EXCTIVE ENINER        EXECU rIVE ENGINEER       EXECUTIVE ENGINEER       EXECUTIVE ENGINEER                                     EX ECUTIVE ENGINEER
BARR  IDOV'LAISLIVARAM  (MADDUR        (VIZZESVVARAM                                         ~~~~~~~~~TRANSPORT,       EXECUTIVE ENGINEER         EXECUTIVE ENGINEER
URAL I  BARG          OWAFISRAREAO             BARAGEU                  IVZARWRAGE                 PERSONAL ASSISTANT           MACHINARY                ERECTION OF GATES          ERECCTION OF GATES       PESNAL ASSISTANT
STRUJCTION)              CONSTRUCTION)             CONSTRUCTION)                                          AND WORKSHOPS
4 ASSISTANT              4 ASSISTANT                4 ASSISTANT               A ASTNT4 ASS ISTANT                                                            4 ASSISTAN4T              4 ASSISTANT
ENGINEERS WITH           ENGINEERS WVITH           ENGINEERS WITH           ENGINEERS WITH                                         ENGINEERS WITH            ENGINEERS WITH            ENIER
2SJUNIOR NGINEERS  2EJUNIORtSENGINEERS    L2oJ-u NIOR ENGINEERS       20 JUNIOR ENGINES                                      20JUNIEOR ENGINEERS      2S1JUNIOR ENGINEERtS        JNO   NIER
W.Id B..k - 8977 (RI



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
GENERAL LAY-OUT
PUASALANKA
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LiN
TO VIJAYAWVADA
G OW T AM I                                          7          X              S                                                V I ZZESWAR AM
ESERN DELTA
NA\gIVIGION CHANNEL
CANAL            I1437.92 NA                           I4                                                                             806 VI                                 CANALLA  SAN SHAL
I <(2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
008 ER LAN    Al'p ROACH  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W1I Br,-S7



INDIA
GODAVARI BARRAGE PROJECT
TYPICAL PLAN
ITF              s             O             O              F             L            .             |
_                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         q   E  o






_o  r r
r  >
50 
r    O 9  I i 0 T   s               z
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






EA                                                  B--A
EOA                                 //             HA           X                        /               AE         \                                       ES
Or
ES                          \/                             ES                                  F /                          '\ /                                    ESFi
EDS               EIl2K             E;;1@S    /EIA v4A  \A  ElA                                                       /HA   3A                                 ET         H    A             \\ ERl&S           /EHA                      EA H E
VA  /_                                                                                               I                  .... 7__
1~~~~~~~~~~~~ r/ m  m           0 0\ t/\\                                        _1
v   Frl .r I u (L  manTbs     HO                                            SHIHBH\H.    \                                   HHB &A  IA /                                           &COGoH                                    HHHHUg HHOHH
denT ansS eemmencFmPn d iz    >  ~ ~ ~  ~       S                                                               jH II 
__            ES          4                                              ES'!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~is a 7v a  e1c ) aSImZDs  BSIm1
Nsle~~~~~~~~~~~~~ __uwz wdro EhM#rmPnnckn  s u                                                                                             _       __   _    _            _          __
ma~~~~~~~~~~~~a
7   Ok oJbxEruzEere AGrE n: adS! rs S nD cf p ers m rU                                                                              K    H H I            I ,      H   S  HH I
;   rttddr'>   ':L,   ,   .....   Qu  ,  W r asO 1977s BdsE 1 tU2s BEYs 23 1O4e BJ oSR DEas 11 to26~~~~~~~ASS               BHVSSHH                               BA   V  AH    BIH  10 S






IBRD 1189
~~~~~~~aA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C 
41~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                            1 
tl ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ I--C                          '-/-,.~SAORAIAANI,R
ly                                                                                                                                                 09.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_____LnCAAC
I ~ ~ ~ D
-'                                       -   B                                                                                C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  4JC
C                                                                                                                                                -     0    CIA/N CNNN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VAVILLACNS RA E  R
SAL   SCAA'  C                                                                                                                                                                      CRFAAACSLCTA CIANDATICLYwtlb ~     MA



