CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 532 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Godavari Barrage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 7, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 532 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Godavari Barrage Project)
BETWEEN
0
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 7, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by the State of Andhra
Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to the said State of Andhra Pradesh part of the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C)   Part C of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the State of Andhra Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
namely, in Section 2.01, the following paragraph 5:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andra Pradesh, a State of India,
and any successor thereof;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Andhra Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "PWD" means the Public Works Department of Andra Pradesh; and
(d)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in paragraph
B(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately
grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews
of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its
agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made
available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls under
Group A or Group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement), the Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of the appropriate


﻿5
applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made available,
promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor; and
(iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1985 and ending November 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall (i) carry
out Part C of the Project or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and shall provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefor and (ii) cause Andhra Pradesh to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Andhra Pradesh
to perform such obligations, and shall not 'take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿60
(b)   In order to assist Andhra Pradesh in c,,rrying out Parts A and B of
the Project the Borrower shall make available to Andhra Pradesh the proceeds of
the Credit under Categories (1) through (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement in accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
development projects.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause Andhra Pradesh to make arrangements in
its annual development plans for the provision of funds required for the
implementation of the Project in accordance with a detailed        schedule of
construction which shall be acceptable to the Association.
(d)   In the event that steel required for civil works under the Project is
not available locally, the Borrower shall promptly make arrangements, including
the issuance of all necessary licences, to import such steel.
(e)   Such cement as shall be required for the Project shall be allocated
as part of Andhra Pradesh's annual allocation and, if necessary, such cement shall
be earmarked by the Borrower for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation of Andhra Pradesh under the Project Agreement;
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that Andhra Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in paragraph
(a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.


﻿7
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery
of the Project Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that that the Project
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, Andra Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Andra Pradesh in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 7, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the
Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿8
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s!/ M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Thea table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Armount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
(a)  let on contract         23,400,000          90%
(b)  by force                 4,900,000          50%
account
(2)  Equipment and                 13,700,000         100% of foreign
materials                                        expenditures
(including                                       (c.i.f.) 100% of
installation)                                    local expenditures
(ex-factory) and
90% of installa-
tion expenditures
(3)  Engineering and                 600,000          100% of foreign
Supervision                                      expenditures
(4)  Second phase proj-              100,000          100% of foreign
ect preparation                                  expenditures
(5)  Technical Assis-                300,000          100% of foreign
tance for prepara-                               expenditures
tion of command
area development
projects
(6)  Unallocated                    2,000,000
TOTAL        45,000,000


﻿10
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shQrtfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    The construction of a barrage across three branches of the Godavari River,
namely the Dowlaiswaram, Maddur and Vizzeswaram, and the completion
of the construction of a barrage on the fourth branch of the said river (the
Ralli), including a road bridge across the barrage and the dismantling of the
old weir.
B.    The preparation of a second phase command area development project in
the Godavari Delta.
C.    Technical Assistance to the Borrower for the preparation of command area
development projects throuhout India.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


