CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 532 IN
Project Agreement
(Godavari Barrage Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
DATED MARCH 7, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Andhra
Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million dollars ($45,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Andhra Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Andhra Pradesh shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part A of the Project, Andhra Pradesh shall
employ contractors satisfactory to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by Andhra Pradesh to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project until its
completion.
Section 2.05. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for Parts A and B of, the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Andhra Pradesh: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A and B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project, and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts
A and B of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the Association:
(i) exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project,


﻿5
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit; and (ii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Parts A and B of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Project Facilities
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall cause all works and facilities included
in the Project or necessary to the proper and efficient operation thereof to be
operated, maintained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering practices
and standards and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the preceding paragraph, Andhra
*        Pradesh shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause the barrage
constructed under the Project to be periodically inspected not less frequently than
once every five years, in accordance with sound engineering practices in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the
condition of such structures and earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operation of such structures and earthworks which
may endanger the safety of such structures and earthworks.
Section 3.02. Andhra Pradesh shall at all times during the execution of the
Project stockpile such materials, and maintain such equipment, at the site of the
existing weir, as shall be necessary to make emergency repairs to such weir.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Andhra Pradesh shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of PWD with respect to Part A and the Command
Area Development Department of Andhra Pradesh with respect to Part B of the
Project.


﻿6
Section 4.02. Andhra Pradesh shall: (i) have the accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) of PWD with respect to Part A and the Command Area Development
Department of Andhra Pradesh with respect to Part B of the Project for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Accountant General of Andhra Pradesh; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the said financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PWD with respect to Part A and the Command Area
Development Department of Andhra Pradesh with respect to Part B of the Project
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Andhra Pradesh undertakes to make such arrangements as shall
be necessary to levy and collect from beneficiaries of the facilities constructed
under Part A of the Project all investment costs of the Project including interest
of not less than 5% per annum thereon over a period of not more than fifteen
years.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this event.


﻿7
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any suspension or partial cancellation under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Andhra Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of Andhra Pradesh,
Public Works Department (Projects Wing)
Hyderabad 22
India
Cable address:
PROJECTS
Hyderabad 22
India


﻿8
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Andhra Pradesh may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government
of Andhra Pradesh in PWD or such other person or persons as he shall designate
in writing.
Section 6.03. Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of Andhra Pradesh, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by Andhra Pradesh
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement inay be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts for civil works, equipment
and materials shall be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Bidders for the equipment included in Part A of the Project shall be
prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines and bidders for the works
included in the said Part A shall be considered for award only if qualified in
accordance with the requirements for prequalification described in the said part
2.2 of the Guidelines.
3.    Materials and equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
shall be procured through the normal procedures of Andhra Pradesh, provided that
the aggregate cost of such items shall not exceed the equivalent of $600,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for the Manufacture and Erection of
Gates; Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the manufacture
and erection of the gates: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Andhra Pradesh of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery- of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿10
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in India.
(3)   Group 4: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement, Andhra
Pradesh may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to qualify as provided in Part A of this
Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference shall


﻿*                                    11
be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such information,
including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by the Association,
a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be followed
in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by Andhra Pradesh,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Procurement Without Contracting
Construction work on the Project until June 30, 1975, as well as works
*        for the dismantling of the crest of the existing weir at the Project site following
installation of the gates on the Project barrage, shall be executed through force
account.
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review   of prequalification of bidders for equipment contracts. Andhra
Pradesh shall, before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by Andhra
Pradesh to the Association for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and Andhra Pradesh shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)   With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(i)         before bids are invited, Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid


﻿12
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders;
(ii)        promptly after the bids have been received, Andhra Pradesh shall
inform the Association of the names of the bidders and the
respective amounts of the bids; and
(iii)       after bids have been received and evaluated, Andhra Pradesh
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and the reasons for the intended award and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines of this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and Andhra Pradesh and state
the reasons for such determination.
(b)   With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(i)         before bids are invited, Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, including
the requirements for qualification and eligibility for the
preference under Part C. 1, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders;
(ii)        promptly after the bids have been received, Andhra Pradesh shall
furnish to the Association the list of all bidders, a statement


﻿13
of their qualifications, and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part C.1 above and the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for qualification and for such
eligibility, for the Association's comments and Andhra Pradesh
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request; and
(iii)       Andhra Pradesh shall evaluate the bids from qualified bidders
and, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidders to which it intends to
award the contract and the reasons for the intended award and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and Andhra Pradesh and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c)   With respect to each contract governed by (a) or (b) above:
(i)         The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were invited.
(ii)        Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, Andhra Pradesh shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform Andhra Pradesh and the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


