Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15264
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2281-BUR)
FEBRUARY 15, 1996
Country Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 09/30/95)
Burkina Faso's currency is the CFA franc (CFAF), which is pegged to the French franc (FF).
Until January 12, 1994, the parity of the CFAF to the FF was 50 to 1 - since then it has been at
100 to 1.
Currency Unit   =         CFA franc
I CFA franc    =         US$ 0.002
US$1.00        =          495 CFA franc
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIB        -  Banque Internationale du Burkina
BNDB       -  Banque Nationale de Developpement du Burkina
BOAD       -  West African Development Bank
CGP        -  Caisse General de Perequation
CNCA       -  Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
ED IV      -  Fourth Education Project
ERC        -  Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF       -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ICR        -  Implementation Completion Report
MEBAM    -  Ministry of Primary Education
ONPE       -  National Employment Office
PASA       -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
PASEC-T   -  Transport Sector Adjustment Credit
PFP        -  Policy Framework Paper
PID        -  Public Institutional Development Project
PIP        -  Public Investment Program
SAC        -  Structural Adjustment Credit
STP-PAS   -  Permanent Technical Secretariat of the Structural
of the Adjustment Program
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Program
VAT        -  Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary
Introduction .................................i
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives .................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ................................                                 ii
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ................................                            iv
Part I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background .....................................1l
B.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ................................ ....2
C. Achievement of Major Objectives ....................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program                       ..................................... 11
E. Program  Sustainability                                             ..................................... 12
F. Bank Performance ......................................                                           12
G. Borrower Performance                        ..                       ................................... 13
H. Assessment of Outcome                         ..                     ................................... 14
I. Future Operations .....................................                                           14
J. Key Lessons Learned ...................................... 14
Statistical Annexes ......................................                                                     17
Appendices
Appendix A:    Mission's Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:           Borrower's contribution to the ICR
Appendix C:    Cofinancier's comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofrcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed widiout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[CR. 2281-BURl
BURKINA FASO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC I) in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 228 1-BUR in the amount of SDR 60 million equivalent was
approved on June 27, 1991 and made effective on September 17, 1991. This credit was amended on May
2, 1994 to incorporate key components of the Government's Priority Action Plan for Primary Education
and Health, which was proposed by the Government during negotiations of the Economic Recovery Credit
(Cr. 2590-BUR).
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1995, compared with an initial closing date of June 30, 1993.
The first tranche in the amount of SDR 30 million was released upon effectiveness, the second tranche in
the amount of SDR 15 million was released on February 24, 1994, and the third tranche in the amount of
SDR 15 million was released on March 2, 1995. The credit was fully disbursed by March 28, 1995.
Cofinancing was provided by the Governments of Norway and the Netherlands.
The ICR was prepared by Hans-Martin Boehmer, Country Operations Division, and reviewed by
Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Country Operations Division Chief, and Franz Kaps, Operations Adviser, West
Central Africa Department. The borrower and cofinanciers provided comments that are included as
appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, April 17 to May 5,
1995. It is based on material in the project file, including the Memorandum of the President, the Letter of
Development Policy, supervision reports, progress reviews on the occasion of tranche releases and related
documents. The borrower expressed a preference to channel its contribution through participation in the
ICR mission's discussions and initial work (as reflected in the mission aide-memoire) and through
comments on an earlier draft of this report.






STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
ICR. 2281-BUR]
BURKINA FASO
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank had played a limited role in Burkina Faso's development process prior to the start of the
adjustment program, focusing its sector investments mainly on agriculture and transport.  Relations
between the Bank and Burkina deteriorated to the point where no new credits were approved in 1986 and
1987. Relations improved significantly with a new Govermment coming to office in late 1987 and lending
resumed in 1988. Discussions on a first adjustment operation began in 1989 and led to negotiations in May
1991. The Bank's country assistance strategy at the time aimed at (i) supporting critical actions needed to
alleviate long-term constraints on economic and social development; (ii) helping the Government create a
policy and regulatory environment supportive of the private sector; and (iii) helping the Government
manage public resources more effectively.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.    The main objective of the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I), was to support Burkina's
overall adjustment program as outlined in the first PFP for 1991-1993 with the objective to improve public
resource management and create incentives for private sector growth.
3.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12, 1994, the Board approved the
Economic Recovery Credit (CR. 2590-BUR) on March 10, 1994 to support the post-devaluation reform
program aimed at private sector led growth and poverty alleviation. Among others, the credit supported the
implementation of key measure to increase the coverage and quality of primary education and health
services in the context of a Priority Action Plan for Education and Health. This Plan was formally
incorporated into SAC I, in the form of an additional condition for the release of the third tranche.
4.    The design of the first structural adjustment credit was fully based on the country assistance
strategy and the succession of Policy Framework Papers that was developed in close collaboration by the
Burkinabe authorities, the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank.
5.    The Bank assistance centered around a combination of adjustment (both SAC and SECALs) and
project lending, especially in human resource development and preservation of natural resources. Several
projects were designed specifically in support of SAC I, including the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (CR. 2381-BUR), the Transport Sector Adjustment Credit (CR. 2332-BUR) and the Fourth
Education Project (CR. 2244-BUR).
6.    Burkina Faso camne relatively late to the adjustment process and had just emerged from a state-
controlled regime. The allocation of public expenditures was poorly suited to support basic development
objectives and the private sector was operating in a highly distorted environment. Both areas of reform had
to be tackled at the same time, and, thus, both objectives under SAC I were appropriate.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    Outcome of SAC I is rated as overall "satisfactory". Preparation for the adjustment credit was
unusually lengthy, starting in 1988, and included detailed discussions of all areas of the program. During
the first supervision mission, a detailed supervision plan was prepared, which anticipated three missions
annually. However, due to the political transition that occurred in 1992 and the lack of progress under the
agreed reform program, active supervision did not resume until late in 1992. The policy dialogue, however,
continued throughout this phase and resulted in the first Public Expenditure Review (May 1993).
8.    A first extension of the closing date from June 30, 1993 to June 30, 1994 was approved in October
1993. However, due to fiscal slippages during 1993, the second tranche was not released until February
1994. During a policy mission in January/February 1994, the post-devaluation strategy was firmed up and
final preparations for the ERC were made, which led also to the incorporation of the Priority Action Plan
for Primary Education and Health into SAC I as a condition for the release of the third tranche. A second
extension of the closing date from June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1995 was approved in July 1994.
9.    Because of the design of the credit, which emphasized the implementation of key aspects through
follow-up projects, all of which are still on-going, a final assessment of Bank performance is difficult to
make. However, initial consultations were, for an adjustment credit, unusually intensive and resulted in a
high degree of comnnitment among Burkina's leadership. Subsequent delays were caused by a multitude of
factors. It is not likely that closer supervision would have led to a faster and more effective implementation
of reforms.
10.   The adjustment program  succeeded in restoring significant but fragile economic growth.
Following average annual growth of just over 4 percent during the period 1983-88, economic growth came
to a halt in 1989-90. Supported by very favorable rainfalls in 1991, the economy grew at almost 4 percent
a year during the period 1991-93, but growth decelerated considerably on the eve of the January 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc. Following the devaluation, growth resumed despite very unfavorable rainfall
patterns, and is now projected to average around 5 percent a year over the medium term.
11.   A further element of the program was to reduce the overall fiscal deficit and to settle payment
arrears. Progress was made in 1991, when revenues exceeded targets significantly, which allowed for a
sharper than anticipated reduction in internal arrears. The management of public finances deteriorated
however in 1992, partially as a result of lax revenue collection efforts during this phase of political
transition. The new program for 1993, which was supported by the IMF's enhanced structural adjustment
facility (ESAF), could not prevent a continued shortfall as a result of (i) difficulties in implementing the
VAT, which was introduced too hastily with the 1993 budget, and (ii) a temporary proliferation of
exemptions that accompanied the new, simplified customs tariff structure. While the fiscal performance
improved in many respects in 1994, fiscal revenues remained a source of concem. Despite the introduction
of a single 15 percent VAT rate, and the expansion of the VAT base, revenues fell to 11 percent of GDP,
compared with 12.6 percent in 1993.
12.   Burkina Faso, like the entire CFA franc zone, has historically enjoyed low levels of inflation. This
has continued throughout the adjustment period. In particular, Burkina succeeded in containing price
increases in the aftermath of the devaluation, contrary to public fears. While the program for 1994
envisaged an average annual increase in consumer prices of over 31 percent, actual inflation was limited to
less than 25 percent. This made Burkina one of the best performers within the CFA franc zone.



iii
13.   Public resources management was to be improved under the adjustment program. The Governmet
has made significant progress in reducing the wage bill in relation to total current expenditures.
Particularly helpful in this regard was the first Public Expenditure Review, which was carried out in 1992.
By clearly identifying the constraints imposed by the existing distribution of expenditures, it allowed the
Government to draw the right conclusions and articulate an effective policy to redirect budgetary
allocations. Less progress was made in the way expenditures are programmed and monitored, and the
timeliness and quality of fiscal data has remained unsatisfactory. Reforms in the area of the Public
Investment Program (PIP) succeeded in improving the portfolio of investment projects by eliminaing
economically unviable project. However, the PIP is still not a planning tool, but rather a listing of
government projects.
14.   Prior to the start of the adjustment program, the Government had no clearly established sectoral
priorities linked directly to the budget. As a result, primary education, basic health care, and the
maintenance of basic infrastructure had suffered. Given Burkina's development strategy, particular
attention had to be paid to the health and education sectors, as well as the maintenance of infiastructure.
Once sectoral allocations in the budget were agreed on under the Policy Framework Papers, detailed actions
to insure a better provision of services were to be implemented through sector operations, specifically the
fourth education project, which deepened the reforms begun under SAC I. However, progress was initially
slow. The devaluation in January 1994 opened up a new opportunity to reallocate budgetary expenditures.
This resulted in a new commitment by Government to increase its focus on health and education, which
was reflected in the Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health of the Economic Recovery
Credit.
15.   Incentives for the private sector were to be improved by privatizing state owned enterprises,
restructuring the banking sector, liberalizing trade and prices, and updating the regulatory environment.
The Government's overall privatization program aimed at reducing the share of Government ownership in
aU existing commercial and industrial enterprises and any newly created enterprises to no more than 25
percent. The program got off to a good start and initial bids were received for most of the enterprises that
were authorized for privatization by Parliament.  However, by late 1993, the program had slowed
substantially. While the market response to offers had been relatively satisfactory, implementation had
often been delayed by the bureaucracy and the extent of Government commitment to this area of reform is
still not clear.
16.   In tandem with adjustments in other areas, the Government decided in June 1990 to begin the
process of reforning the banking sector with the objective to limit the Government's participation in the
five principal commercial banks to no more than 25 percent. From the beginning, the restructuring of the
banking sector proved to be one of the most difficult areas of reform. Of the five banks, four were
prepared for privatization, while the fifth, BNDB, was ultimately to be liquidated. By June 1995, however,
the Government had stil not succeeded in attracting sufficient private investors to limit its own
participation to no more than 25 percent in each bank. As a result, the Government decided to place its
shares in excess of 25 percent in a trust with the West African Development Bank (BOAD).
17.   Trade and price reform succeeded in substantially liberalizing the environment in which the private
sector operates in Burkina Faso. The Government began its efforts to increase competition in import and
export trade in 1990. It abolished prior export authorizations for all products except cereals and lifted the
state monopolies on all exports other than cotton and gold. It also abolished all export taxes. Under SAC
I, the Government eliminated about 90 percent of all quantitative restrictions by the end of 1992. The
remaining quantitative restrictions were lifted by end 1993. Furthermore, most price controls were lifted



iv
prior to the devaluation in January 1994, and those controls reinstated in its aftermath were rolled back
according to schedule.
18.   Reforming the regulatorv and institutional environment in which the private sector would operate
was another comerstone of the adjustment program. The principal areas to be addressed under SAC I
were: (i) the revision of the Investment Code; (ii) the establishment of a Law Revision Committee with
statutory powers to revise, update, edit and consolidate legal texts with a view to having them published in
the official joumal in fully authoritative form; and (iii) a revision of the Labor Code with the objective of
reducing labor market rigidities and simplifying procedures for hiring and firing. While substantial
progress was made in all areas, progress was not always easy, in particular in the area of labor reform.
Negotiations were particularly difficult as a result of the political environment and the effect of the adopted
changes is still questionable.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned.
19.   While basic macroeconomic performance is monitored under the Fund's ESAF program, the
sustainability of sectoral achievements hinges on the conclusion of existing projects as well as the next
generation of projects. The reform agenda is clearly not finished in Burkina. This is particularly the case
for the agricultural sector where reforms will continue under the proposed second agricultural sector
adjustment credit.
20.   Most importantly, the private sector still has to become the engine of economic growth. A first
step will be a proposed FY96 mining sector project. Ultimately, however, the private sector can only
become the driving force behind Burkina's development if the Government is fully committed to
privatization of state enterprises and a strong private banking sector, while substantially improving the
management of the public finances to provide adequate support to the activities of the private sector. These
areas of reform would be the focal points of a second structural adjustment credit that is currently under
discussion.
21.   The extent to which ownership of the reform program existed since 1991 is difficult to assess.
Careful attention was paid during the design phase to include stakeholders and disseminate information
about the program broadly. However, despite these efforts, ownership was not comprehensive and
uniform. Reforms proved particularly difficult where the implementation hinged on the participation of the
civil service. While the country's leadership was in many ways quick to adopt market based ideas, the
mentality of the civil servants remained in large part influenced by Burkina Faso's socialist past where the
State was viewed as a caretaker and manager of the economy. Furthermore, even now the Government
perceives the adjustment credit to be declaration of economic and policy objectives that it intends to
implement, whereas the Bank is perceived to have a legalistic approach to the implementation of an
adjustment credit. Future operations have to be very concise in the requirements for their implementation
before refonrs are begun. Only if the actual implementing agencies and civil servants have a thorough
understanding of and commitment to the purpose of the envisaged reforms will they further the process,
rather than become a bottleneck.
22.   SAC I was a very complex operation. However, given the necessity to tackle a large number of
reform areas at once, it was unavoidable to make the first adjustment operation a comprehensive one.
During the implementation of the program, however, this coherence was lost, as some areas of reform
lagged substantially behind others. The challenge is now to develop a strategy for the next phase in
Burkina Faso's adjustment program that re-establishes this coherence with a new focus. This may require
innovative approaches to the design of future adjustment operations to avoid delays in the general program



v
as a result of unexpected difficulties in specific areas of reform. The initial task of moving from a socialist
economy to a market-oriented one is largely completed. The new focus of a coherent strategy must now be
to fight poverty. With the first results of the Poverty Assessment now available, Government policies in all
sectors must be re-calibrated to work in harmony towards the reduction of poverty.






STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[CR. 2281-BURl
BURKINA FASO
PART I - PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
(i)    Macroeconomic Setting
1.    Prior to 1988, economic policies in Burkina Faso were characterized by central planning, tight
controls on the private sector, and extensive direct state involvement in productive activities. Although the
economy enjoyed good growth, much of it was derived from two unsustainable sources: (i) an expansion of
public consumption and investment spending; and (ii) high agricultural growth (6.1 percent per year in
1982-88) due to good weather and expanded cultivation of land recently freed of onchocerciasis. Despite a
significant degree of protection, the domestic manufacturing sector performed poorly during this period.
Structural factors such as poor technical skills, high energy and transport costs, high labor costs, and rigid
price and trade controls hurt competitiveness.
2.    As soon as it became evident that high levels of government spending could not be sustained and
the economy began to deteriorate, the Government decided to approach the Bank and the Fund. This
allowed for a lengthy dialogue prior to the implementation of the adjustment program. The dialogue on
economic management began in 1988 in the context of the preparation of the first country economic
memorandum, but was accelerated as the economic situation worsened in 1989. The Government
formulated a first draft Policy Framework Paper (PFP) in 1989, which was subject to public debates in
1990. A final PFP was presented to the boards of the Bank and the IMF in early 1991, which was
followed by the first Structural Adjustment Credit approved by the Bank in June 1991.
(ii)   Socio-Political Setting
3.    Under the Sankara regime (1983-1987), the civil service had gained greatly in importance. Civil
servants were involved in every aspect of managing the economy. Although Burkina underwent a major
transformation in its political system with the first presidential elections in late 1991, and subsequent
legislative elections in mid-92, the sense of responsibility for controlling the fate of the economy instilled in
the civil service remained very much alive. While there was a strong will to reform the economy, and a
deep understanding of what this entails, at the highest levels of Government, civil servants themselves
remained largely unchanged in their attitudes.
4.    The changing political environment also meant that there was a quick succession of ministers in
several key positions, which complicated the implementation of reforms. Reform efforts were further
slowed by a civil service that had no time to adapt to its new mandate. While decrees were issued to
change the role of government and to liberalize the economy, the application of those decrees, which was in
the hands of the civil service, lagged considerably behind.



2
(iii)   Bank's Role
5.    The Bank had played a limited role in Burkina Faso's development process prior to the start of the
adjustment program, focusing its sector investnents mainly in agriculture and transport, and with mixed
results in health and education. Relations between the Bank and Burkina deteriorated to the point where no
new credits were approved in 1986 and 1987. Relations improved significantly with a new Government
coming to office in late 1987 and lending resumed in 1988. Discussions on a first adjustment operation
began in 1989 and led to negotiations in May 1991. The Bank's country assistance strategy at the time
aimed at (i) supporting critical actions needed to alleviate long-term constraints on economic and social
development; (ii) helping the Government create a policy and regulatory environment supportive of the
private sector; and (iii) helping the Government manage public resources more effectively.
6.    At the same time, the strategy envisaged a sharp increase in the Bank's lending volume to Burkina.
The annual lending volume during the second half of the 1980s amounted to about US$20 million, but
quadrupled to over US$80 million in annual new commitments during the first half of the 1990s.
B.    STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
(i)    Project Objectives
7.    The main objective of the first Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I), was to support Burkina's
overall adjustment program as outlined in the first PFP for 1991-1993 with the objective to improve public
resource management and create incentives for prvate sector growth. More specifically,
(a)   the public sector management component included restructuring of recurrent budget expenditure to
support human resource development, preparation of a civil service management reform, and
improvement of investment programming; and
(b)   the private sector incentives component focused on public enterprise and banking sector
restructuring, as well as trade and regulatory reform.
8.    Following the devaluation of the CFA franc on January 12, 1994, the Board approved the
Economic Recovery Credit on March 10, 1994 to support the post-devaluation reform program aimed at
pnvate sector led growth and poverty alleviation. Principal measures supported by the credit included the
implementation of key measure to increase the coverage and quality of primary education and health
services in the context of a Priority Action Plan for Education and Health. This Plan was formally
incorporated into SAC I, in the form of an additional condition for the release of the third tranche.
9.    The design of the first Structural Adjustment Credit was fully based on the country assistance
strategy and the succession of Policy Framework Papers that was developed in close collaboration of the
Burkinabe authorities, the Intemational Monetary Fund, and the World Bank.
10.   The Bank assistance centered around a combination of adjustment (both SAC and SECALs) and
project lending, especially in human resource development and preservation of natural resources. Several
projects were designed specifically in support of SAC I: policy reforms in the agricultural sector were to be
implemented under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (CR. 238 1-BUR), the privatization program
was to be supported by the Private Sector Assistance Project (CR. 2472-BUR), public financial
management reforms were to be deepened under the Public Institutional Development Project (CR. 2378-



3
BUR), while a better resource allocation in transport and education was to be achieved with support from
the Transport Sector Adjustrnent Credit (CR. 2332-BUR) and the Fourth Education Project (CR. 2244-
BUR).
(ii)   Evaluation of Objectives
11.   Burkina Faso came relatively late to the adjustment process and had just emerged frorn a state-
controlled regime. The allocation of public expenditures was poorly suited to support basic development
objectives and the private sector was operating in a highly distorted environment. Both areas of reform had
to be tackled at the same time, and thus, both objectives under SAC I were appropriate.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF MAJOR OBJECTIVES
12.   As discussed below, many of the objectives of SAC I have been achieved, but the overall agenda
for policy reform is far from completed. Reforms in trade and price liberalization have been substantial, as
well as achievements in the priority sectors of primary education and health. The reform process in the
banking sector and public management has begun, but needs to be deepened through future operations.
The design of the Program constituted a reasonable but ambitious approach for achieving the desired
objectives.
(i)    Macroeconomic Objectives
13.   The Government's adjustment program was supported from the beginning by the Bank and the
Fund and succeeded in stabilizing the economy following the sharp deterioration in 1989-90. Following
initial preparations in 1989, a draft Policy Framework Paper was discussed at organized public meetings in
mid-1990, which resulted in the first PFP for the period 1991-93. The second PFP was not completed until
early 1993 as a result of the protracted democratization process, which slowed discussions of a new policy
framework significantly, and also resulted in significant slippages of the macroeconomic program. Since
then, annual updates of the PFP have been the basis for assessing the progress made in restoring a viable
macroeconomic environment. Adherence to the overall framework was a condition for the release of the
second and third tranche of SAC I.
14.   Restoring GDP Growth. The adjustment program succeeded in restoring significant but fragile
economic growth. Following average annual growth of just over 4 percent during the period 1983-88,
economic growth came to a halt in 1989-90. The first PFP aimed at achieving an average real GDP growth
rate of 4 percent, which would have allowed for small real gains on a per capita basis. Supported by very
favorable rainfalls in 1991, the economy grew at almost 4 percent a year during the period 1991-93, but
growth decelerated considerably on the eve of the January 1994 devaluation of the CFA franc. Following
the devaluation, growth resumed despite very unfavorable rainfall patterns, and is now projected to average
around 5 percent a year over the medium term.
15.   Reducing the Fiscal Deficit. A key element of the program was to reduce the overall fiscal deficit
and to settle payment arrears. Progress was made in 1991, when revenues exceeded targets significantly,
which allowed for a sharper than anticipated reduction in internal arrears. However, delays in restructuring
negotiations with bilateral creditors meant that external arrears remained far above the envisaged levels.
The management of public finances deteriorated in early 1992, partially as a result of lax revenue collection
efforts during this phase of political transition. Although the Government attempted to rectify the situation
during the second half of the year, exogenous factors, such as poor rainfall and a decline in world cotton



4
prices, undercut these efforts. The new program for 1993, which was supported by the IMF's enhanced
structural adjustment facility (ESAF), attempted to build on the progress made in late 1992 to improve the
fiscal situation. However, revenue collection again fell short of targets in 1993 as a result of (i) difficulties
in implementing the VAT, which was introduced too hastily with the 1993 budget, and (ii) a temporary
proliferation of exemptions that accompanied the new, simplified customs tariff structure. This was
combined with lower than anticipated disbursements from donors, which meant that the anticipated
restructuring of the banking sector, which required substantial resources, had to be postponed.
Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators
1989    1990        1991     1      1992            1993             1994
Outcome| Outcome| Program loutcome Program oomeome Program outcome Program |outcome
Annual Percentage Change
GDP at constant prices     0.9    -1.5    4.0    10.0    ..        2.5     3.9    -0.8    3.3       1.2
GDPDeflator                5.4     1.4    5.1    -4.9             -1.8    1.9       1.4    27.7    27.9
Consumer Prices           -0.3    -0.8    5.0      5.1      .      -2.0    1.2     0.6    31.2    24.7
In percent of GDP
Revenue(excludinggrants)   10.6    12.3    13.1    13.3    ..    11.8    14.3    12.6    11.6    11.0
Expenditure and Net
Lending                 17.4    19.6   20.8    21.6    ..    20.9    22.7    22.9    27.9    22.0
Overall Fiscal Balance
excluding grants        -6.8    -7.3    -7.7    -8.3     ..    -9.1    -8.4   -10.3   -16.3   -11.0
Gross Investment          21.8    20.4    21.3    20.9             21.6    25.5    23.7    31.9    25.3
Gross National Savings    21.3    20.2    16.3    17.6    ..    20.9    18.1    20.4    26.5    22.6
Gross Domestic Savings     6.4     8.3             4.6     ..      4.9     ..      5.6     6.8      6.1
Current Account Balance
Icl. Official Transfers  -0.5   -0.3    -5.0    -3.4      ..    -0.7    -7.4    -3.3    -5.4    -2.7
Excl. Official Transfers  -9.9    -8.5   -13.2   -14.1    ..    -12.1   -15.6   -13.9   -21.5   -13.9
Source: Policy Framework Papers (1991, 1993, 1994, and 1995).
Note: There was no annual program in effect in 1992. Furthermore, National Accounts data had been revised beginning with
the 1993-1995 PFP to include new estimates of the size of the informal sector. All GDP ratios were adjusted to the new GDP
level. The Program targets for 1994 correspond to the initial program. The 1994 program was subsequently revised.
16.    While the fiscal performance improved in many respects in 1994, fiscal revenues remained a
source of concern. Despite the introduction of a single 15 percent VAT rate, and the expansion of the VAT
base, revenues fell to 11 percent of GDP, compared with 12.6 percent in 1993. Expenditures were
contained partly due to lower than anticipated domestic interest payments, but also at the expense of delays
in the execution of foreign financed projects, for which contracts had to be revalued.
17.    Containing Inflation.  Burkina Faso, like the entire CFA franc zone, has historically enjoyed low
levels of inflation. This has continued throughout the adjustment period. In particular, Burkina succeeded
in containing price increases in the aftermath of the devaluation, contrary to public fears. While the
program for 1994 envisaged an average annual increase in consumer prices of over 31 percent, actual



5
inflation was limited to less than 25 percent. This made Burkina one of the best performers wihin the CFA
zone.
(ii)    Public Resource Management
18.    Management of Current Expenditure. At the beginning of the adjustment program, manageenet of
current expenditures was severely constrained by the large share of the wage bill in current expenditus.
By 1989, wages and salaries accounted for 65 percent of current expenditures, up from 54 percent just
three years earlier. As a result, the reform efforts regarding improved management of current expenditu
were centered around a reduction in the wage bill as a share of total current expenditures with a view
towards increasing spending on materials and supplies. The reduction of the wage bill was to be achieved
in an environment where additional staff were to be hired in the priority sectors. This mean that no w
hiring took place in non-priority sectors. In addition, a new budgetary nomenclature was to be introduced
and the monitoring of expenditures was to be improved.
19.    The Government has made significant progress in reducing the wage bill in relation to total ClTnt
expenditures. Particularly helpful in this regard was the first Public Expenditure Review, which was
carried out in 1992. By clearly identifying the constraints imposed by the existing distribution of
expenditures, it allowed the Government to draw the right conclusions and articulate an efifctive policy to
redirect budgetary allocations. Containing the growth of the wage bill was a difficult task but by limiting
new recruitment strictly to priority sectors and reducing non-wage benefits, the Government achieved a
significant reduction in the share of current expenditures going to wages and salaries (see Table 2). In the
aftermath of the devaluation, strict controls on salary increases limited the nominal growth of the wage bill
to just under 10 percent.
Table 2: Current Expenditure and Wage Bill
(in billion of CFA fianc)
1991          1992          I993
Current Expenditure                      94.2           93.7          18.2           13.0
of which:
Wages and Salaries                     54.1           50.9          52.2           58.2
Wage related transfers                 n.a.           4.6            5.6            5.3
Total wage bill                         54.1           55.5          57.8           63.5
Wage bill as percentage of current expenditure  57.4%  59.2%         48.9%          48.5%
Wage bill as percentage of tax revenue  67.9%          73.9%         71.9%          56.0%
Source: Draft Public Expenditure Revue, 1995
20.    Less progress was made in the way expenditures are programmed and monitored, and tbe
timeliness and quality of fiscal data has remained unsatisfactory. The Public Expendire Review made
numerous specific recommendations to improve fiscal management, both regarding the current as well as
the investment budget. However, in contrast to its effective use in redirecting budgetary allocations, nce
of its recommendations regarding fiscal management have been implemented to date. A Public Institutional
Development project, supported by IDA under Cr. 2378-BUR, was launched in 1992 to further the refoms
in this area, but progress under this project has thus far been minimal - it is the only problem project in
IDA's portfolio. To date there are no consistent data on the public payroll and a long planned census of dt
civil service has only recently been concluded. Furthermore, expenditure data by line ministries cannot be



6
reconciled with those of the Ministry of Finance. In most cases, expenditure data are only available on a
commitment basis, but actual payments on a functional classification are tracked only sporadically.
21.    The Government introduced a new nomenclature with the 1992 budget. The nomenclature was
developed with short-term technical assistance from the IMF but was never applied in a satisfactory
manner. Its introduction significantly disrupted the budgetary process as well as efforts to monitor
achievements without yielding visible improvements.   In fact, there is reason to believe that the
management of public expenditures has deteriorated in recent years. For example, current transfer
payments (Title IV) have increased significantly, as a result of the inclusion of wages for health personnel,
as well as a portion of their materials. Furthermore, a large part of the increase can be attributed to the
inclusion of tax exemptions under the title of transfers - this offsets the entry of exemptions as a revenue
item. A new nomenclature has now been developed with IDA assistance and is introduced in the 1996
budget. Its implementation is facilitated through longer term technical assistance to the Ministry of
Finance. Preliminary results are promising and it is likely that expenditure monitoring will be significantly
simplified from now on.
22.    Public Investment Programming. Reforms in the area of the Public Investment Program (PIP)
succeeded in improving the portfolio of investment projects by eliminating economically unviable projects.
However, the PIP is still not a planning tool, but rather a listing of government projects. The first year of
the three-year rolling PIP was to be identical to the investment budget, but significant difference have
remained. Furthermore, no estimation of recurrent expenditures is included in the PIP and numerous
current expenditures are found in the investment budget.
23.    Focus on Priority Sectors. Prior to the start of the adjustment program, the Government had no
clearly established sectoral priorities linked directly to the budget. As a result, primary education, basic
health care, and the maintenance of basic infrastructure had suffered. Given Burkina's development
strategy, particular attention had to be paid to the health and education sectors, as well as the maintenance
of infrastructure. It took, however, considerable efforts and an explicit linking of the priority sectors with
the budget projections contained in the PFPs to ensure that allocations to health and education would
increase, at the same time that costly stipends would be reduced. Once sectoral allocations in the budget
were ensured, detailed actions to ensure a better provision of services were imnplemented through sector
operations, specifically the Fourth Education project, which deepened the reforms begun under SAC I
(Table 3).
24.    Detailed plans for the provision of adequate resources to the priority sectors were included in SAC
I. However, the new nomenclature introduced with the 1992 budget complicated supervision. Budgetary
allocations were usually not available according to both the new and old nomenclature, which left the
development of allocations relative to planned targets often uncertain. Actual expenditures were even more
difficult to track as a result of inconsistencies between the data provided by the line ministries and the
Ministry of Finance. This was also the case for personnel files, which differed from payroll files and files
used by the Ministry of Civil Service.
25.    Furthermore, SAC I included provisions to increase spending on road maintenance, which was to
be monitored under the Transport Sector Adjustment Credit. Initially, the program aimed at increasing the
budget for road maintenance to CFA franc 3 billion a year. Following the devaluation, the 1994 budget
contained provision in the amount of CFA franc 4.4 billion for 1994. This link between SAC I and
Transport Sector Adjustment Credit proved to be highly effective.



7
26.    Prioritv Action Plan. The devaluation in January 1994 opened up a new opportunity to reallocate
budgetary expenditures. This resulted in a new commitment by Government to increase its focus on health
and primary education, which was reflected in the Priority Action Plan for Primary Education and Health
of the Economic Recovery Credit. The Priority Action Plan was subsequently incorporated into SAC I as a
condition for the third tranche release.
27.    Education.  The Government's program  on education aimed at increasing primary school
enrollment from 28 percent in 1988 to at least 40 percent by 1996, which required that 950 additional
teachers would be hired annually. The government succeeded in recruiting 950 new teachers each year and
has been able to increase the enrollment rate to an estimated 36 percent by the school year 1994/95. While
it will take a sustained effort, achieving the original target is within reach. Under the Priority Action Plan
an additional 2,320 teachers were employed and an agreement with Government Agency Faso Bara was
reached for the construction and equipment of 1000 new schools. As a result, beginning with the school
year 1994/95, classes have started in an orderly fashion with the vast majority of teachers in place for the
first time in many years.
28.    Health. In health, the priorities were to improve the coverage, quality, and utilization of primary
care services. In this context, the Government pursued a policy of decentralizing the public health service,
including the granting of financial autonomy to health centers in 1993 and introduction of partial cost
recovery for services and medication, which made the autonomy truly meaningful. In addition, with the
adoption of the Priority Action Plan, the Government commnitted itself to a policy on the use of essential
and generic drugs, intended to ensure their widespread availability and affordability. To promote the use of
generic drugs through the private sector, the Government authorized pharmacists to open branch retail
outlets and substitute generic equivalents in filling subscriptions, and replaced the profit margin system of
price control for all drugs with a national price list for about 70 of the most widely used essential and
generic drugs. As a result, pharmacists have moved away from stocking high priced brand name drugs
towards keeping less expensive generic drugs. Burkina has become a model for the region in this area.
Table 3: Budget Allocations to Social Sectors
1991          1992           1993           1994
MEBAM (in million of CFA franc)         lo.lol         11.002        10.677          14.226
of which (in percent)
Personnel                            95.3 %         94.1 %         92.2 %         81.2 %
Materials                             3.2 %         4.2%            5.2 %         5.8 %
Transfers                             1.5 %          1.7 %         2.6 %          13.0 %
Total MEBAM as percent of total Education  50.2 %     48.5 %          50.2 %         50.9 %
Health (in million of CFA franc)        7.960          8.517          8.616          12.989
of which (in percent)
Personnel                             74.3%          52.7%          50.7%          40.8%
Materials                             17.1%          18.90/%        18.8%          21.4%
Transfers                             8.6%           28.3%          30.4%          37.8%
Source: Draft Public Expenditure Review, 1995, and monitoring reports by STP-PAS.
29.    Under the Bamako Initiative, the Government decided to put in place a system for the distribution
and cost recovery of essential and generic drugs in about 500 peripheral health centers and in district health



8
ceters, with the technical assistance from UNICEF. The implementation of this policy, however, has been
slower than anticipated as a result of the unexpected complexity of the program and uncoordinated donor
objectives, but is now well under way.
(iii)  Incentives for Private Sector Development
30.    Public Enterprise Reform. At the beginning of the adjustment program, the parastatal sector
comprised 96 enterprises, of which 35 had only recently been created. The first phase of the privatization
program covered under SAC I focused on reducing the Government's share in 12 enterprises to no more
than 25 percent. The Government's overall privatization program aimed at reducing the share of
Government ownership in all existing commercial and industrial enterprises and any newly created
enterprises to no more than 25 percent.
31.    Privatization legislation was approved by the Council of Ministers in July, 1991 and shortly
thereafler passed by parliament. The initial list of enterprises to be privatized included 18 enterprises.
After some initial delays, the privatization commission was set up to oversee, with the assistance of a
foreign consultant, the disposal of enterprises. The program got off to a good start and initial bids were
received for most of the enterprises that were authorized for privatization by Parliament. However, by late
1993, the program had virtually come to a halt. While the market response to offers had been relatively
satisfactory, implementation had often been delayed in bureaucracy. This was in large part due to the fact
that the privatization commission did not have any actual decision making authority. Final decisions on all
sales had to be made by the council of ministers, where new restrictions and changes to the agreement could
be introduced. A fundamental problem was to break with the past where the state actively managed the
economny and let the private sector play a much larger role independent of state interference. Until today,
the program has not yet regained its momentum and out of a total of 41 enterprises slated for privatization,
only 13 have been privatized so far.
32.    Three fundamental problems became apparent early during the implementation of the program.
First, the privatization commission was composed of civil servants representing several ministries who
devoted only part of their time to privatization. Many of them either did not fully appreciate the
importance of the program or were actively opposed to it. Second, the lack of knowledge about the
program, both domestically and abroad, limited the number of offers received.  And, third, the lack of
involvement of the local banking sector meant that domestic financing was difficult to obtain. A further
problem was the interpretation applied to the 25 percent Government ownership that was allowed under the
privatization program. Although the Government was to divest itself to the largest extent possible, it
decided to maintain its 25 percent share in several instances against Bank advice and the preference of the
potential buyer.
33.    Finally, limiting the privatization to an initial list of 18 enterprises, which was subject to intensive
debates, was not beneficial to the implementation of the program. Rather, all enterprises should have been
available for privatization with the possible exception of a small number of clearly identified enterprises or
sectors. State ownership should have been the exception from the very beginning.
34.   Banking Sector Restructuring. In tandem with reforms in other areas, the Government decided to
limit its participation in the five principal commercial banks - the Banque Internationale du Burkina (BIB),
Banque Internationale pour le Commerce, l'Industrie et l'Agriculture (BICIA), Banque pour le
Financement du Commerce et de l'Industrie (BFCI) which was subsequently merged with two smaller
banks, Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), and Banque Nationale de Developpment du Burkina
(BND-B) - to no more than 25 percent. Prior to divestiture, however, a comprehensive restructuring



9
exercise was necessary to either ensure the viability of banks or, where found necessary, begin liquidation
proceedings. At the same time, the Government sought to recover as much as possible the non-perfbrming
loans that were on the balance sheets of state owned banks at that time. This process is now supported
through IDA's Private Sector Assistance Project.
35.   Of the five banks, four were prepared for privatization, while the fifth, BND-B, was ultimately to
be liquidated. By the end of 1994, however, only the privatization of BICIA was fully completed in the
sense that the private sector held at least 75 percent of the shares. While the Government has limnited its
share in CNCA and BIB to 25 percent, it was so far unable to sell all of its remaining share to the private
sector and decided to place its shares in excess of 25 percent (21 and 25 percent respectively) in trust with
the West African Development Bank (BOAD). The final decision to privatize the BFCI group is awaiting
the decision of the regional Banking Commission. The liquidation of BND-B, which should have been
initiated as of January 1, 1993 since the BND-B was not recapitalized, was only announced formally in
November 1994 and is now expected to be completed during 1996.
36.   From the beginning, the restructuring of the banking sector proved to be one of the most difficult
areas of reform. There was little support for privatization both from within the Government and the
Central Bank (BCEAO), which only started to effectively contribute to the process in the months leading
up to the devaluation. Furthermore, no formal procedures for the privatization process were ever made
public. Nevertheless, despite concerns voiced over the lack of commitment and transparency, the Bank
agreed to the privatization program and included it in the adjustment operation.
37.   The implementation of the privatization program was further complicated by a controversy around
the Bank's insistence on independent audits of state banks. This was perceived as undermining the
authority of the BCEAO since it revealed a strong doubt about the quality, seriousness and integrity of the
Banking Commission. Attempts to accelerate the privatization process in the banking sector by putting the
Privatization Commission in charge of banking privatization were not picked up by the Government, which
further left the banking sector without clearly defined privatization rules.
38.   External Trade Regulations. The Government began its efforts to increase competition in import
and export trade in 1990. It abolished prior export authorizations for all products except cereals and lifted
the state monopolies on all exports other than cotton and gold. It also abolished all export taxes. Under
SAC I, the Government elininated about 90 percent of all quantitative restrictions by the end of 1992.
The remaining quantitative restrictions were lifted by end-1993. Only five products (arms and military
equipment, explosives, pharmaceutical products, toxic plants, and small fishing nets) would be subject to
special authorization for security, health and environmental reasons.
39.   The simplification of remaining quantitative restrictions was initially delayed, but a comprehensive
reform in the tariff schedule was implemented in January 1993 in coordination with the start of regional
reforms. This resulted in a reduced number of tariff rates and reduced spreads, which lowered the overall
effective rate of protection under which many inefficient producers used to operate. Efforts to protect these
groups resulted in a proliferation of exemptions. These pressures were unnecessarily aggravated by the
Government's failure to implement key accompanying measures such as the special protective tariffs
(TDP) and customs duty draw-back for exports. These were only introduced in the last part of 1993 on
imports of 22 goods, which in tum led to a delay in their removal after the devaluation. The rate, initially
set at 30 percent of c.i.f. value, was reduced to 10 percent in early 1995 and will be abolished before the
endof 1995.



10
40.   Price Liberalization. At the beginning of the adjustment program, 44 groups of imported goods
were subject to profit margins, which was to be progressively reduced to 36 (by end 1991) and 5 in 1992.
At the same time quantitative restrictions were to be removed. Locally produced goods were freed from
price regulation with the exception of rice, sugar, and wheat flour in March 1991. The further
liberalization of these prices was to be pursued under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (PASA).
41.   The Government also intended to substantially simplify the existing tax and pricing system for
petroleum. A detailed timetable was set-up for the revision of the petroleum pricing, but there was little
up-front understanding on characteristics of the system that should ultimately be put in place. A first draft
of the report was received and reviewed by the Bank in early 1993, but found to be insufficient in its policy
recommendations. During the supervision mission of July 1993, a revised report recommending partial
reform of petroleum product pricing and marketing was reviewed and discussed with representatives of
state petroleum monopoly (SONABHY), the price stabilization fund (CGP) and the Ministry of Commerce
who were strongly opposed to any revision of pricing and marketing. The pricing system was finally
streamlined and made more transparent with the introduction of a single ad valorem tax and elimination of
the CGP during the process of collection of taxes from petroleum imports. The new system was
promulgated in early 1994. A flexible pricing system for petroleum products was subsequently introduced
m late 1994, which provides for reviews of the price every four months.
42.   The Government also agreed to review the role of the price stabilization funds (Caisse Generale de
Per6quation, CGP, Caisse de Stabilization des Prix des Produits Agricoles, CSPPA) and of the grain
marketing agency (Office National des Cereales). The role of the CGP has since been limited to the import
stage and sale of rice at the wholesale level. Under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit, CSPPA was
to be divested, which has not yet occurred. However, CSPPA no longer interferes in the market and has
transferred all remaining export responsibilities to the private sector.
43.   Under SAC I, the Govemrnent also proposed to review the role of the grain marketing agency
(OFNACER). Following the liberalization of pricing and marketing of cereals, OFNACER was liquidated
in June 1994 and a new structure was created, the Societe Nationale de Gestion des Stocks de Securite
(SONAGESS), whose sole activity is to manage the national cereal stock.
44.   Regulatory and Institutional Reform. Reforming the regulatory and institutional environment in
which the private sector would operate in the future was one of the cornerstones in the design of the
adjustment program. The principal areas to be addressed under SAC I were: (i) the revision of the
Investment Code, (ii) the establishment of a Law Revision Committee with statutory powers to revise,
update, edit, and consolidate legal texts with a view to having them published in the official joumal in fully
authoritative form, and (iii) a revision of the Labor Code with the objective of reducing labor market
rigidities and simplifying procedures for hiring and firing.
45.   Investment Code. The deficiencies of the old Investment Code which had last been revised in
1984, were the subject of several missions prior to SAC I. Following an IDA preparation mission and a
joint FIAS/MIGA mission, agreement on a revised Investment Code was reached during a November 1991
supervision mission. The new code took effect in June 1992 fully in line with the original objectives and
provides now neutral and transparent incentives for investors.
46.   Commercial Code. Prior to the commencement of the adjustment programn, no compendium of
business laws existed in Burkina Faso. As part of a more general effort to consolidate existing laws and
legislation, and as condition of effectiveness for PID, the government established in 1992 a pernanent
Commission Nationale de Codification (Decret No 92/149/MU), which comprised, among others, a sub-



I1
commission on commercial laws and judicial reform. In October 1993, Burkina Faso signed the Treaty
establishing the Organisanion pour I 'Harmonisation du Droit des Affairs en Afrique (OHADA), the main
objective of which was to promote the harmonization of business laws through elaboration and adoption of
uniform laws. To that end, the National Law commission embarked on a review of drafts of laws
pertaining to commercial activities which had been prepared under the auspices of the OHADA Secretariat.
Under the Treaty, the uniform laws cannot enter into force until after they have been reviewed and adopted
by the Council of Ministers of OHADA, and published in the Official Journal of OHADA. While the laws
are yet to be adopted by Burkina Faso, significant progress in the updating of commercial laws has been
made. The process of regional harmonization of commercial laws is strongly supported by the Bank, and
resources have been used under the PID legal component to support these changes.
47.   Labor Code. Two issues were of concem in the old Labor Code. First, the monopoly on hiring
held by the National Employment Office (ONPE), and second, the restrictions on labor contracts. Since
eliminating both of these impediments was viewed as critical to a more flexible functioning of the labor
market, the credit agreement included as tranche release conditions (second tranche) the elimination of
ONPE's monopoly and the elimination of all restrictions on the duration and number of renewals of fixed-
term contracts. The process of Labor Code reform began in late 1990 and included consultations with six
labor unions. To facilitate the negotiations, ILO provided assistance. Despite early concerns by the Bank
over the clauses contained in the proposed Labor Code that were contradictory to the Development Credit
Agreement, Parliament approved the Code in Decernber 1992  The supervision mission in July 1993
focused intensively on the issues remaining with the Labor Code, and spelled out clearly the apparent
inconsistencies within the Code itself and with SAC I objectives, in particular as regards the restrictions on
fixed-term contracts. At that time, the Government was worried about opening up a new round of
discussions on broader reforms associated with the structural adjustment program if the Labor Code were
to be revised by Parliament. Also, putting the Code in question was feared to endanger the delicate rapport
between different branches of Government as they were then only beginning to function in a democratic
context. In a compromise move, formulation of a supplementary decree providing for more flexibility in
fixed-term contracts was accomplished during several rounds of negotiation in 1993 and the decree was
issued in November 1993.
(iv)   Human Resource Development and Poverty Alleviation in Adjustment
48.   The impact of the adjustment program on the poor was to be monitored through a household
expenditure survey. The survey was designed prior to the adjustment program and was to begin in 1991.
Although reference to the survey was included in each PFP since the beginuing of the adjustment program,
it was only conducted in 1994. A lack of commitment on part of the Government to this survey, and
subsequent complication in putting the donors' financing package together (which involved the UNDP,
European Union, African Development Bank, and IDA with a Norwegian Grant) were to a large part
responsible for the delay.
49.   Nevertheless, the Government has now prepared a high quality Poverty Profile based on the survey
data, which is being disseminated widely in Burkina. Government commitment to the analysis of poverty
has risen substantially and the inclusion of the results of the Poverty Profile into policy making is virtually
assured.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
50.   Political Transition. The difficulties that could arise as a result of the political transition that was
already apparent during the preparation of the adjustment program were well anticipated in the design of



12
the operation. The precise impact was, of course, unknown and developments prior to credit effectiveness
seemed to suggest that the delay would be minimal. However, during the first supervision mission, which
took place during the period of the presidential elections, delays were apparent. Political turmoil during
1992 was anticipated at that time. Opposition was evident among unions in particular to the restructuring
of enterprises and the retrenchment of workers, elimination of certain allowances for civil servants and their
promotion without salary increments, and the reduction in the number of scholarships as part of the effort
to reduce current budgetary transfers. As a result, following initial reforms in 1991, the implementation of
the adjustment program was essentially put on hold until the later part of 1993.
51.   External Environment. As a member of the CFA franc zone, Burkina was highly dependent on the
economic developments in its francophone African neighbors, the most important of which remains Cote
d'Ivoire. The entire CFA zone experienced a slow but significant decline in economic performance. Most
notably, CMte d'Ivoire recorded negative growth since 1985, which meant that workers' remittances by the
3 million Burkinabe living there fell significantly over time.
52.   Devaluation. The devaluation of January 1994, while a significant factor that could easily have
had a negative impact on the implementation of reforms, turned out to have a major positive impact on
the adjustment program. Already prior to the devaluation, the highest level of the Burkinabe Government
had a clear understanding of the benefits f*om the devaluation. Following the devaluation there was
remarkable increase in the reform efforts, which resulted in the implementation of the ERC.
E.    PROGRAM SUSTAINABILITY
53.    Overall, the ex-post evaluation of SAC I concludes that the sustainability of the reforms carried out
is still uncertain. However, the potential for a lasting shift towards an economy where the private sector is
the engine of growth exists. For this to happen, however, the ongoing projects in health, education, public
sector management and agricultural sector reform, and private sector assistance have to be successfully
implemented.
54.   The sustainability of reforms is most likely in those areas where the Government has shown clear
will and commitment. The external trade regime has been liberalized substantially and the economy is
adapting successfully to the new environment. Similarly, a genuine commitment to the policy objectives in
the area of education and, by and large, health is visible. Although not all objectives were achieved under
the program, the importance of linking the policy objectives with the budget process is generally
acknowledged. Further progress in these areas is likely as soon as the management of public finances is
firmly controlled. This clearly demonstrates the intricate link between on-going projects that are aimed at
institutional strengthening, such as the PID, and sectoral operations, such as ED IV.
55.   The ultimate success of reforms in the banking sector and the privatization program is still very
uncertain. Thus far, reforms in neither area have been satisfying, and the impact in terms of a
strengthening of the private sector are still uncertain. Here, too, the conclusion of on-going operations as
well as future operations will determine the sustainability of reforms. Discussions with Government in
preparation for a second structural adjustrnent credit are on-going and could lead to continued support for
further banking sector and public enterprise reform.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
56.   Preparation for the adjustment credit was unusually lengthy, starting during discussions in the
context of the Country Economic Memorandum in 1988. All aspects of the program were discussed in



13
detail, although some areas, such as the privatization program, would, by today's standards, probably have
to be prepared in even greater detail. During the first supervision mission, a detailed supervision plan was
prepared, which anticipated three missions annually. However, due to the political transition that occurred
in 1992 and the lack of progress under the agreed reform program, active supervision did not resume until
late in 1992. The, policy dialogue however, continued throughout this phase and resulted in the first Public
Expenditure Review.
57.   An action plan that accompanied the first request by the Government for an extension of the
closing date from June 30, 1993 to June 30, 1994 was worked out during a supervision mission, and
subsequently approved. However, due to fiscal slippages during 1993, the second tranche was not released
unfil February 1994. During a policy mission in January/February 1994, the post devaluation strategy was
firmed-up and final preparations for the ERC were made, which led also to the incorporation of the Priority
Action Plan for Primary Education and Health into SAC I as a condition for the release of the third tranche.
A second extension of the closing date from June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1995 was prepared during a joint
Bank/Fund mission in May 1994.
58.   Because of the design of the credit, which emphasized the implementation of key aspects through
follow-up projects, all of which are still on-going, a final assessment of Bank perfonnance is difficult to
make. However, initial consultations were, for an adjustment credit, unusually intensive and resulted in a
high degree of commitment among Burkina's leadership. Subsequent delays were caused by a multitude of
factors. Even closer supervision would unlikely have resulted in a faster and more effective implementation
of reforms.
G.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
59.   The borrower performance was mixed throughout the project implementation, although the
devaluation in January 1994 appears to have reinvigorated the Government. During the preparation of the
adjustment program, the Government engaged in an unusually open public information campaign, long
before this was generally thought to be an essential ingredient in the efforts to develop true country
ownership of the adjustment process. Nevertheless, it has become clear in retrospect that commitment in
some parts of Government was not as deep rooted as first thought, and that parts of civil society rminoed
oposed to the adjustment program despite extensive consultations. This was particularly true for labor
unions.
60.   Depite government commitment to the reforms at the start of the program, changes in the political
system threw the program off track in early 1992 and the adjustment program did not resume in eamest
until the end of 1993. Overall, however, the Government never abandoned the reform process, even though
some of the measures were not popular during the period of political transition and pressures on the
Government to end the adjustment program all together had mounted.
61.   Monitoring arrangements were put in place early and the Implementation Secretariat for the
Structural Adjustment Program (STP-PAS) was charged with the implementation of the overall adjustmeot
program. Although there was a substantial learning phase before quarterly monitoring reports were
received in a timely manner and in the necessary coverage, overall performance of the implementation
agency was satisfactory. A more difficult problem was the high rate of turnover among Government
officials, in particular at the level of the Minister of Finance. While these changes are to be explained by
the evolving political situation in Burkina, they did pose an obstacle to a more rapid implementation of
reforms.



14
H.  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
62.   Based on the Bank's ex-post evaluation norms, the outcome of SAC I is classified as overall
"satisfactory". This assessment is based on the following elements: (i) the program succeeded in restoring
a viable macroeconomic position; (ii) substantial progress was made in the areas of education and, to a
large extent, in health; and (iii) the trade environment has been liberalized substantially. However, further
progress needs to be made in (i) the areas of public financial management and institutional strengthening;
(ii) efforts to develop the private sector through privatization of state owned enterprises and transforming
the banking sector into a intermediary to finance private investment, as well as (iii) improving systems to
monitor the impact of social spending and the progress in providing public services to the poorest segments
of the population.
63.   While the areas of success are no more important than the areas where more progress is yet to be
made, the outcome is classified as overall satisfactory based on the positive outlook for the future. In
particular, the Governmnent's commitment that is now demonstrated in disseminating the results of the
Poverty Profile, and preparing its own Public Expenditure Review are promising indicators for future
progress in the areas of poverty monitoring and public expenditure management.
I.     FUTURE OPERATIONS
64.    Future operations are the key to the sustainability of the adjustment program. While basic
macroeconomic performance is monitored under the Fund's ESAF program, sectoral achievements hinge on
the successful completion of existing projects as well as the next generation of projects. The reform agenda
is clearly not finished in Burkina. This is particularly the case for the agricultural sector where reforms
will be deepened under a second operation which will focus on eliminating remaining barriers in rice, sugar,
and cotton, to stimulate a strong supply response.
65.    Most importantly, the private sector still has to become the engine of economic growth. A first
step will be the proposed FY96 mining sector project. It will further improve the incentive framework for
foreign investment in the mining sector, which holds the promise of substantially boosting Burkina's mining
production. Ultimately, however, the private sector can only become the driving force behind Burkina's
development if the Government is fully committed to privatization of state enterprises and a strong private
banking sector, while substantially improving the management of the public finances to provide adequate
support to the activities of the private sector. These areas of reform would be the focal points of a second
structural adjustment operation during FY97.
J.     KEY LESSONS LEARNED
66.   Design. SAC I was a difficult operation to design, given that it was the first adjustment operation
for Burkina Faso and the country was just beginning the transition to a parliamentary democracy, which
continued to occupy the political landscape for several years. However, given the necessity to tackle a
large number of reform areas at once, it was unavoidable to make the first adjustment operation a
comprehensive one. This was then followed up with numerous sectoral adjustment operations and other
credits. This design worked well in several sector, particular education and transport. However, other
areas, such as privatization and budgetary reforms, moved very slowly despite follow-up projects. A next
adjustment operation would have to be very well focused on the critical remaining reform areas.



15
67.   Mentality of Civil Service. The beginning of the adjustment program also meant a change in the
role of government. Previously, the government was perceived to be a caretaker and manager of the
economy. Now, its role was to change to that of a supporting institution in an economy where the private
sector was to become the main driving force. This change in thinking, however, was easier for the highest
levels of government than for many civil servants. As a result, reforms that required the issuing of a decree
as the only necessary step towards their implementation were generally successful. Prices were liberalized,
trade barriers removed, and public monopolies were eliminated. However, where the reforms hinged on the
participation of the civil service the process slowed down dramatically. The mentality of the civil servants
has not changed as quickly as the policies of the Government, which made implementation of certain
reforms, such as privatization and banking sector reforms, nearly impossible. Future operations have to be
very concise in the requirements for their implementation before reforms are begun. Only if the actual
implementing agencies and civil servants have a thorough understanding of and commitment to the purpose
of the envisaged reforms will they further the process, rather than become a bottleneck.
68.   Sequencing. The right order of reforms is critical to the successful implementation of a reform
program. Pursuing simultaneous privatization and reorganization in both the state enterprise sector and the
banking sector was a challenge. Unfortunately, by not focusing enough attention on either, neither has
achieved its desired objectives. Ideally, the privatization program should have come only after the banking
sector was restructured and would be in a position to assist in the execution of the privatization program.
While this may not have been an option in the case of this credit, it would be desirable whenever feasible.
69.   Coherence. The reason this operation was as complex as it was, had to do with the realization that
Burkina Faso, with its socialist past, could not be transformed into a private sector oriented economy
through a gradual approach where one sector is reformed at a time. During the implementation of the.
program, however, this coherence was lost, as some areas of reform lagged substantially behind others.
The challenge is now to develop a strategy for the next phase in Burkina Faso's adjustment program that
re-establishes this coherence with a new focus. The initial task of moving from a socialist economy to a
market-oriented one is largely completed. The new focus of a coherent strategy must now be to fight
poverty. With the first results of the Poverty Assessment now available, Government policies in all sectors
must be re-calibrated to work in harmony towards the reduction of poverty.






17
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[CR. 2281-BUR]
BURKINA FASO
PART II- STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
0)              V)               (v)               (1)
Macro Policies                                                                         Q]
Sector Policies                                                                       E] 
Financial Objectives               Q                a                Q
Institutional Development          E               E]
Physical Objectives                Q                                 Q
Poverty Reduction                  Q                Q
Gender Issues                                      E [               Q
Other Social Objectives                                             E                 E]
Environmental Objectives           E                                 E]               El 
Public Sector Management           E                                                  E ]
Private Sector Development           )                              El                [ z
Trade Reform                        E3                                                  5]
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Likelv                 Unlikelv                  Uncertain
l~~~~~~~~(1                                             (1                        (1) 



18
(Continued)
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory          Satisfactora               Deficient
Identification                                               Q                         Q
Preparation Assistance              C                                                  [J
Appraisal                           Q                                                  
Supervision                         0                                                 []
HWighy
D. Borrower Performance                satisfactory         Satisfactor               Deficient
(1)                    (1)                       (1)
Preparation                                                E]                       E]
Implementation                                                                      E ]l
Covenant Compliance                                        E                         Q
Operation (if applicable)          E ]                                               0
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactorv   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactor     unsatisfactoy
0)              (0)  0)
a~~~~R                       1 O 



19
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                  Purpose                                       Date of Approval   Status
Simultaneous Operations
Fourth Education Project     (i) Further improving the quality of primary  May 1991        Disbursing
education; (ii) increasing the enrollment ratio from
(Cr. 2244)                   31 percent in 1989/90 to 40 percent by 1996/97;
(iii) improving the quality of general secondary
education; and (iv) strengthening key sectoral
institutions.
Transport Sector Adjustment    Improve efficiency of sectoral operations through    February 1992  Disbursing
Credit                      restructuring of sector parastatals and maintain
(Cr.2332)                    and rehabilitate the transport infrastructure.
Agricultural Sector Adjustment  (i) lmprove the competitiveness of key subsectors   June 1992  Disbursing
Credit                       while ensuring sustainability of the production
systems; (ii) reduce the mandate of the Cereal
(Cr. 2381)                   Marketing Board (OFNACER) eliminate public
attempts at stabilizing prices, streamline
interventions of Government Ministries in the
agricultural sector, and improve the management
of public institutions in rural areas; (iii) secure the
incentive environment for increased food security;
and (iv) promote a facilitating environment for
private sector participation in production and
marketing
Public Institutional         Support Government's effort to reinforce the  June 1992       Disbursing
Development Project          major functions (budgetary, personnel,
information, and legal) of central public
(Cr. 2378)                  institutions (Finance, Plan, Civil Service, Justice)
charged with economic and priority sectors
(Primary Health, Education) management.
Private Sector Assistance    Help create institutional and staff capacities  March 1993    Disbursing
Project                      capable of providing the support required for a
sustainable growth of the private sector. Assist in
(Cr. 2472)                  (i) pursuing the implementation of measures
initiated under SAC I; (ii) reorganizing the
institutional support system to private
entrepreneurs; and (iii) initiating measures to
strengthen overall financial intermediation.
Economic Recovery Credit     Support post-devaluation reform program to   March 1994       Closed
achieve private sector led growth and poverty
(Cr. 2590)                   alleviation.
Planned Operations
Second Structural Adjustment   Eliminate remaining structural constraints with  FY97       Expected
Credit                      regard to public sector financial management and
private sector development.
|Second Agricultural Sector  Eliminate remaining barriers in rice, sugar, and  FY97        Under
Adjustment Credit            cotton, to stimulate a strong supply response in the          Preparation
agricultural sector.



20
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                     Date Planned                Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Initiating Memorandum                                  February 14, 1991        February 14, 1991
Appraisal                                              Feb/Mar 1991             Feb/Mar 1991
Negotiations                                           May 1991                 May 13-17, 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)           May 1991                 May 17, 1991
Board Presentation                                     June 1991                June 4, 1991
Signing                                                June 1991                July 5, 1991
Effectiveness                                          July 1991                September 17, 1991
First Tranche Release                                  July 1991                September 17, 1991
Second Tranche Release                                 Mai 1992                 February 24, 1994
Third Tranche Release                                  March 1993               March 2, 1995
Project Completion                                     June 1993                June 1995
Credit Closing                                         June 30, 1993            June 30, 1995
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92             FY93           FY94           FY95
Appraisal Estimate                        40,000            60,000        80,000          80,000
Actual                                    41,191            41,229        60,896          85,393
Actual as % of Estimate                    103%               69%            76%           107%
Date of Final Disbursement                March 28, 1995
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
The key indicators for program implementation and operation, wiuch were defined in the President's Report,
coincide with the Legal Covenants and are therefore covered under Table 9. Additional indicators as they related
to the macroeconomic performance are included in Table I in the main text.



21
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Studies were not directly financed under this credit, but through the vaious related operations mentioned in Table 2. The
impact of those studies will be assessed as part of the ICRs for those operations.
Table 7: Project Financing
(Foreign Cost in US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                        Actual
Source
IDA                                            80.0                                 85.4
Cofinancing Institution
Netherlands                                   0.0                                  5.9
Norway                                        0.0                                  1.9
Other Extemal Sources
African Development Bank                      20.0                                 n.a.
Govemment of Canada                           13.0                                 n.a.
European Development Fund                     30.0                                 n.a.
Government of France                          17.0                                 n.a.
Govenmnent of Germany                         12.0                                 n.a.
TOTAL                                        172.0                                 n.a.



22
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit       Covenant      Present    Description of Covenant
Agreement   Type           Status                                                       Comments
Section
2.02 (b)     Financial     C           The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,    Fulfilled
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special deposit
account in BCEAO on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
2.04 (a)     Financial     C           The Borrower shall pay to the Association a      Fulfilled
commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but
not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
l _____       _______       _____       1%) per annum.
2.05         Financial     C           The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service  Fulfilled
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
3.01 (a)     Consultation   C          The Borrower and the Association shall from time to    Fulfilled
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.01 (b)     Consultation   C          Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower  Fulfilled
shall furnish to the Association for its review and
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
3.02         Procurement   C           Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,  Fulfilled
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds to the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.03 (a)     Accounts/     C           The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained  Fulfilled
Audit                    records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.



23
3.03 (b)      Accounts /      C           The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts    Fulfilled
Audit                       referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section including
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
3.03 (c)      Accounts I      C           For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals  Fulfilled
Audit                       from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least
one year after the Association has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable
the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and (iv) ensure that said accounts and records
shall be audited on a semiannual basis by said
auditors, who shall prepare audit reports accordingly
and furnish them to the Association, not later than
three (3) months after the end of such semiannual
audit period, along with an opinion as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
period, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.



24
Credit       Covenant     Present    Conditions for Release of Second Tranche
Agreement   Type           Status                                                    Comments
Section                        -
S3 A. 1.    Cross         C           The Borrower has adopted a 1992 current and    Fulfilled
sectoral                investment budget, acceptable to the Association,
budgetary                using the standardized nomenclature adopted to that
policy                   effect.
conditionality
S3 A.2.     Cross         C           The Borrower has implemented its 1991 current and  Fulfilled
sectoral                investment budget in a manner satisfactory to the
budgetary                Association, and in accordance with the targets agreed
policy                   upon for each of the priority sectors of the economy,
conditionality          including primary education and health, and for non-
wage operations, maintenance and investment
expenditures.
S3 A.3.     Sectoral      C           The Borrower has had a new Labor Code adopted to    Fulfilled
regulatory               provide, inter alia that: (a) recourse to ONPE will be
conditionality           optional; (b) recourse to fixed-term contracts will not
be affected by any restrictions on their duration or the
number of renewals; and (c) there will be no list
limiting the situations in which recourse to such
contracts is authorized.
S3 A.4.      Sectoral     C           The Borrower has had a new Investment Code adopted   Fulfilled
regulatory               to provide for a set of transparent, automatic and
conditionality           simplified criteria in the treatment of investment
incentives.
S3 A.5.     Institutional   C         The Borrower has established a Commission Nationale  Fulfilled
conditionality           de Codification, whose composition shall be
acceptable to the Association, and which shall be
vested with all necessary powers to compile, revise
and update all existing laws, and to have them
published in an authoritative and consolidated form.



25
Credit       Covenant      Present    Conditions for Release of Third Tranchel
Agreement   Type           Status                                                       Comments
Section
- ~ ~ ~
S3 B. 1.     Cross-        C           The Borrower has adopted a 1994 current and      Fulfilled
sectoral                 investment budget, acceptable to the Association,
budgetary                using the standardized nomenclature adopted to that
policy                   effect.
conditionality
S3 B.2.      Sectoral      C           The Borrower has reduced its participation, whether  Fulfilled
policy                   direct or indirect, in the share capital of CNCA and
conditionality           BICIA to a level which, in either case, shall not exceed
25% of the capital.
S3 B.3.      Sectoral      C           The Borrower has put into effect a revised policy,  Fulfilled
policy                   which shall be acceptable to the Association,
conditionality           governing the pricing of petroleum products.
S3 B.4.      regulatory    C           The Borrower has revised and updated its commercial   Goveniment has
action                   laws with a view to having them duly published in  made significant
conditionality           consolidated form.                               progress, adoption
will take place
under the OHADA
Treaty.
S3 B.5.      regulatory    C           The Borrower has reduced: (a) the number of products,  Fulfilled
action                   which are subject to import control, to not more than
conditionality            15; and (b) the number of imported products, which
are subject to fixed profit margins, to not more than
17, by July 31, 1992 and, thereafter, to not more than
5.
S3 B.6.      Sectoral      C           The Borrower has (a) established procedures,     Fulfilled
institutional            acceptable to the Association, for the hiring of new
conditionality           teachers; (b) hired about 2,350 new primary school
teachers, of which (i) about 300 to teach classes closed
for lack of teachers; (ii) about 1,100 to replace national
service agents; and (iii) about 950 planned under the
program supported by Education IV Project, as defined
in Schedule 2, Part A. 1. of the Development Credit
Agreement for Cr. 2244-BUR signed on July 5, 1991;
(c) concluded an agreement satisfactory to the
Association with Faso Baara to undertake school
construction and procure the respective equipment; (d)
held two workshops on accelerated expansion of
primary education; and (e) prepared the opening of the
1994/95 school year in a timely manner.
The original credit agreement was amended to incorporated components of the ERC (Cr. 2590-BUR) on May 2, 1994.
The additional conditionalities are S3 B.6. through S3 B.9.



26
Credit        Covenant        Present      Conditions for Release of Third Tranche, continued
Agreement    Type             Status                                                             Camments
Section
S3 B.7.       Sectoral        C            The Borrower has provided adequate budgetary          Fulflled
budgetary                   allocations to MS, satisfactory to the Association, for
allocation                  the implementation of the Bamako hitiative pursuant
conditionality              to a contract between the Borrower and UNICEF
regarding the supply of services necessary for the
implementation and management of a system for
distribution and cost recovery of essential and generic
drugs in peripheral health facilities.
S3 B.8.       Monitoring      C            The Borrower has submitted to the Association (i)     Fulfilled
canditionality              monthly updates, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, on the status of measures in the Priority
Action Plan for Primary Education and Health
contained in its March 7, 1994, letter to the
Association, and (ii) quarterly reports on the progress
of its Program which will cover the execution of the
1994 budget for personnel, materials and current
transfers for MS and MEBAM, and identify
expenditure on pedagogic materials for primary
education, primary school textbook lending, and the
implementation of the Bamako Initiative.
S3 B.9.       Other           C            The Borrower has achieved progress, satisfactory to   Fulfilled
conditionality              the Association, in implementing (a) the program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
adjustment of the Borrower's economy and equitable
social development, outlined in its March 7, 1994,
letter to the Association; and (b) the Borrower's 1994
current and investment budget.
Covenet tym
I1. =  Acoounta/au                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Finaial perfornmaurevenue gmwaeion fihn          9. = Monitoring, review, and remoting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow ad udlization of project funds            11. = Sedorl or crosa-eoral budgeary or other resurce
4. =  Coutepart fimdna                                       allocation
5. -  Manms     t apecb of the project or executing   12. = Sectoral or aossaectorad policy/ regulairy/indiational
agency                                                action
6. =  Environma covenant                              13. = Other
7. -  Involuntary meltiunen
S. Peat Sts:
C - covaent complied with
CD      coplied with aier delay
CP =  omplied with patialy
NC - nd conapLied with



27
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Pt                     Revisod              Actual
Project Cycle                                    lT uss         Weeks I        U
l                 ~~~~~~~~Weeks  | U$     Weeks|US             Wek        U$
Through Appraisal     n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       151.2    320.4
(preparation, pre-
appraisal, appraisal)
Appraisal-Board       n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        14.7      35.6
Board-Effbctiveness   n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        10.3      20.8
Supervision           na.         n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       184.8    57.
Completion            n.a.        n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        10.3      31.9
TOTAL                n.a.      |n.a.        n.a.       n.a.      | 371.3    983.1



28
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Pefonmance Rating
Number                      Specialized      Implemen-        Develop-
Stag of          Month/         of         Days in        Staff Skills      tation           meet          Types of
Prqjet Cycle         Year       Perm          Field        Repsned             Status        Objectives      Problems
Prqaatian              Oct/Nov    9                 33        Eomomids
1990                                  Civil Service
Specialist
Financial
Analyst
Public Enterpris
Consukants
Appraisa               Feduary/   13                24        Economisd
MarcI                                 Lawyer
1991
Prices and Trade
Social
Dimension
Public Sector
Labor
Accountant
Consults
Appraisal through
Bowd Appoval            _                                                                                       _ _ _
Board Approval
through Effecivones                                                                                            ____
Supevision I           June/July   2                9         Country Officer         I               1
1991                                  Eoonomid
Supevision!!           Oct/Nov    5                 12        Trade & Prices          2               2
1991                                  Budget Reforms
Social
Dimension
Public
_             _Enterp~~~Etarise 
Supevision m           December   5                 14        Trade and Prices        2               2
1992                                  Budget Reform
Labor and
Petroletum
Public
Invesdment
Progrram
suprvisan IV           July 1993   1                10        Economist               5              5
Caenpldion             May         1                24        Economist               S               S
1995



29
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[CR. 2281-BURl
BURKINA FASO
APPENDIX A - MISSIONS'S AIDE- MEMOIRE
Burkina Faso
Rapport d'Achevement
du Premier Credit d'Ajustement Structurel (CAS I)
et du Credit d'Appui a la Relance Economique (CARE)
Mission du 17 avril au 9 mai 1995
Aide-Memoire
Une mission de la Banque mondiale conduite par Monsieur Hans-Martin Boehmer, Economiste, Division
des Operations, Departement de I'Afrique du Centre-Ouest, a sejourne au Burkina Faso du 17 avril au 9
mai 1995 en vue de la pr6paration du rapport d'achevement du premier Credit d'Ajustement Structurel
(Cr. 228 1-BUR), et du Credit d'Appui a la Relance Economique (Cr. 2590-BUR). La mission a travaill6
en etroite collaboration avec le Secretariat Technique Permanent du Programme d'Ajustement Structurel et
en coordination avec Monsieur Mbida-Essama et Madame Berthe, qui se sont rendus au Burkina dans le
cadre de la preparation de la deuxieme Revue des Depenses Publiques. La mission a beneficie du soutien
du personmel de la Mission Residente; le Repr6sentant Resident, Monsieur Albert Osei a pris part a toutes
les reunions importantes avec la mission.   La mission exprime toute sa gratitude a Monsieur Joseph
Sirima et a son 6quipe pour leur assistance dans l'examnen de cette premiere experience d'ajustement
structurel au Burkina Faso.
Evaluation Globale
La mission a passe en revue les resultats et les lecons issus du premier Credit d'Ajustement Structurel
(CAS I) et du Credit d'Appui a la Relance Economique (CARE), bases sur les objectifs fixes dans la Lettre
de Politique de Developpement du Gouvernement du 17 mai 1991 du CAS I et de la Declaration de
Politique Economique et Sociale du 7 mars 1994 du CARE. Les principaux objectifs et les mesures
specifiques a mettre en oeuvre sont resumes dans I'annexe I.
L'exp6rience g6nerale et les r6sultats du premier CAS du Burkina Faso sont mitigees. On peut noter un
progres significatif en matiere de liberalisation et d'amelioration de 1'environnement externe, de levee des
contr6les des prix, de reduction de la participation du secteur public dans les activites economiques
productives et d'orientation des politiques publiques vers les secteurs de l'education et de la sante.
En revanche, les progres realises dans le domaine de la gestion du secteur public et d'encouragement i
l'investissement priv6 sont moins encourageants que prevus. De plus, le programme d'ex6cution du plan
de reforme a connu des retards importants dus, en partie a la transition politique de 1992/93 mais aussi a
une capacite limitee de mise en oeuvre et une progression lente des operations de suivi (voir para S. ci-
dessous).



30
Conception du Credit d'Ajustement
Etant donn6 qu'il s'agissait du premier CAS, il etait n6cessaire de mettre en oeuvre une large gamme de
reformes pour faire passer 1'economie du Burkina Faso d'un etat de forte predominance du secteur public a
un etat oui le secteur priv6 deviendrait le principal agent de croissance. Le SAC I a ete deliberement congu
pour etre une operation 'parapluie" dont les differentes composantes seraient par la suite appuyees par
des missions de suivi. Les operations directement issues du CAS I et ensuite du CARE, furent le Credit
d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole (PASA), le Credit d'Ajustement du Secteur des Transports (PASECT),
le Projet d'Appui a l'Administration (PAA), le Projet d'Assistance au Secteur Prive (PASP), et le 4eme
Projet Education.
Vu l'ampleur des reformes necessaires a cette periode, une telle approche semblait prometteuse bien qu'elle
presente certains risques. L'analyse retrospective confirme l'adequation entre les domaines de reforme et
les objectifs generaux du programme. Cependant le succes de la mise en oeuvre des composantes
particulieres dependait fortement du respect des delais prevus pour l'execution successive des operations.
Le Gouvemement a signifie que pendant la preparation et ensuite l'execution de diverses composantes, trop
peu de temps avait e  consacre aux discussions sur (i) les grands objectifs des reformes, (ii) les differentes
options possibles, et (iii) les modalites specifiques en particulier dans le domaine de l'entreprise publique et
de la reforme bancaire, avaient e  de trop courtes durees. Le Gouvemement eut aussi l'impression que la
mise en oeuvre et le d6caissement des tranches avaient e  retardes du fait de divergences d'opinions sur sa
responsabilite dans l'application des reformes.  En outre, le Gouvemement percevait le credit comme
moyen d'atteindre les objectifs economiques auxquelles il s'etait engage, alors qu'il lui semblait que la
Banque mondiale suivait une logique plus legaliste et orientee vers l'execution.
Le programme d'ajustement du Gouvemement avait deux objectifs principaux: (i) reformer la gestion du
secteur public au plan financier pour ameliorer l'utilisation des ressources et les concentrer vers des
secteurs economiques et sociaux prioritaires; (ii) encourager l'investissement prive par des reformes du
secteur public et du secteur bancaire, ainsi que par la liberalisation du commerce, des prix et du cadre
reglementaire.
Amelioration de la Gestion du Secteur Public
Gestion des Depenses
Ce domaine de reformes fiit tres tot appuye par une Revue des Depenses Publiques qui fit de nombreuses
recommandations dans les domaines du Programme d'Investissement Public, de la Gestion de
l'Infomnation, du Developpement Institutionnel et de la Gestion des Depenses. Bien qu'il y eut initialement
des progres dans (i) la reaffectation des depenses aux secteurs prioritaires, (ii) la reduction de la masse
salariale du secteur public, (iii) l'elimination des projets d'investissement non-economiques, la gestion des
depenses publiques ne s'est guere amelioree. Aucune des recommandations relatives au Programme
d'Investissement Public (PIP) n'a e  executee et le PIP n'est toujours pas un instrument utile de
planification. La gestion financiere qui est actuellement soutenue par le PAA, ne connait pas encore
d'amelioration sensible. Le Gouvemement a estime que les objectifs dans ce domaine de reformes
n'avaient e  definis suffisamment clairement au d6part et ne ciblaient pas l'ensemble du systeme de gestion
financiere, mais plut6t ses composantes.
L'evolution des depenses publiques pendant la periode 1992-94 est l'objet de la deuxieme Revue des
Depenses Publiques qui est actuellement en preparation.



31
Secteurs Prioritaires
Des progres importants ont etc realises dans les secteurs de la Sante et de l'Education, notamment depuis
l'adoption d'un Programme d'Actions Prioritaires pour l'Education Primaire et la Sante dans le cadre du
CARE, qui a ensuite et integre sous forme d'amendement au CAS I. Les efforts du Gouvemement ont ad
particulierement efficaces dans l'introduction des medicaments gen6riques et le recrutement d'instituteurs
supplementaires dans les ecoles primaires. L'affectation budgetaire au secteur de l'education semble avoir
baisse ces dernieres ann6es, mais une analyse plus detaill6e devra attendre les resultats de la deuxieme
Revue des Depenses Publiques.
Creation d'un Environnement pour l'Investissement et la Croissance du Secteur Prive
Bien qu'un certain nombre de reformes aient c  prises pour ameliorer l'environnenent du secteur prive,
l'investissement prive et la croissance n'ont pas encore donne les resultats escomptes. Le Gouvernement a
exprime le point de vue selon lequel les reformes en ce domaine avaient plutot pour but de d6sengager
1'Etat des secteurs productifs de l'economie que de faire comprendre comment augmenter la productivite et
l'efficacite du secteur prive. Trop peu de temps avait e  consacre au developpement d'une approche
coherente de la privatisation, basee sur une comprehension par toutes les parties des objectifs recherches et
des options possibles.
Reforme de l'Entreprise Publique
Des progres ont e  faits en matiere de restructuration des entreprises du secteur public et de reduction de la
participation de I'Etat dans les secteurs productifs de l'economie. Douze entreprises ont e  privatis6es ou
liquidees au cours du programme et les subventions budgetaires de l'Etat aux entreprises publiques ont et
reduites. Une autre liste de dix-neuf entreprises a privatiser a e  approuvee par le Parlement. Toutefois,
l'impact de cette reforme sur le transfert des biens de production au secteur prive afin de stimuler
investissement et croissance est reste faible jusqu'a present. Selon le Gouvernement, on aurait trop mis
I'accent sur la reduction du r6le du secteur public et pas assez sur l'accroissement de 1'efficacit6 et des
activites productives des entreprises.
Reforme du Secteur Bancaire
L'objectif de reduire la participation de l'Etat dans chaque banque a un maximum de 25% a e  a peu pres
atteint. Les banques ont par ailleurs fait l'objet d'un programme de restructuration par un nettoyage de
leurs portefeuilles et abandon des prets non-performants. Le BRCB a atteint son objectif de recouvrer 30%
des prets recouvrables.  L'intermediation financiere et la mise a disposition de ressources pour
l'investissement prive n'ont cependant pas atteint le niveau souhaite. Les banques continuent d'accumuler
d'importantes liquidites et n'accordent que des montants limites au financement de l'investissement prive.
Une analyse plus detaillee de l'evolution du systeme bancaire au Burkina Faso depuis la mise en oeuvre du
programme d'ajustement a fait l'objet d'un rapport actuellement diffuse aupres du Gouvemrnement.
Reforme Reglementaire
II fut particulierement difficile d'atteindre un veritable consensus sur les actions a mener dans ce domaine,
notamment en matiere de Code du Travail et de fixation des prix des produits p6troliers. Le Gouvemement
a juge ce secteur particulierement difficile car il a fallu du temps a toutes les parties pour apprendre A
travailler avec les nouvelles institutions democratiques. Alors que des progres etaient intervenus en matiere
de liberalisation du Code du Travail, certaines autorites gouvemementales ont introduit des restrictions



32
additionnelles qui ont augmente les charges patronales. Tandis que l'on s'attendait a certains de ces
problemes lors de la phase de conception du progranmne, et que le Gouvernement s'etait engag6 a
supprimer les barrieres structurelles a la creation d'emplois, la n6cessit6 de reformes sp6cifiques n'6tait pas
suffisamment claire pour arriver a convaincre toutes les parties impliqu6es dans le processus politique.
Lecons aprises
Comme premiere operation d'ajustement pour le Burkina Faso, le cr6dit avait et concu pour couvrir une
tres large gamme de reformes. La mise en oeuvre du programme dependait fortement des op6rations de
suivi. Les operations futures au Burkina devraient davantage tre consacrees aux domaines restant,
notamment en developpant un systeme complet de gestion des d6penses du secteur public et en appuyant la
croissance de l'investissement prive sans surcharger la capacite de mise en oeuvre limitee des institutions
publiques. Tandis que le Gouvemement etait engage dans l'aboutissement des objectifs globaux du
programme, des d6tails de mise en oeuvre restaient insuffisamment definis. Une meilleure comprehension
de toutes les options possibles aiderait le Gouvernement a renforcer a l'avenir sa capacite a soutenir les
reformes au sein de groupes qui pourraient autrement s'y opposer.
Prochaines etapes
La mission a discut6 avec le STP-PAS des exigences et du programme pour la preparation de la
contribution de I'Emprunteur au rapport d'achevement. L'evaluation devrait inclure en particulier:
1) une presentation des objectifs , de la conception et de la mise en oeuvre du projet;
2) une evaluation de la performance de l'emprunteur durant l'evolution et l'execution du
programme, avec un accent particulier sur les lecons tirees pouvant &re utiles dans l'avenir; et;
3) une evaluation de la performance de la Banque et de tous co-financiers pendant l'evolution et
1'execution du projet, y compris 1'efficience des relations entre l'emnprunteur, la Banque et les co-financiers,
en mettant l'accent sur les lecons tirees.
La mission a precise que la contribution de l'emprunteur (10 pages au maximum) sera annex6e telle quelle
au Rapport d'Achevement du Projet. La Banque devra rediger un projet de rapport dans les 2 a 3 prochains
mois et le soumettre au Gouvemement pour commentaires. Par la suite, 1'emprunteur devra transmettre sa
contribution a la Banque.
Fait a Ouagadougou, le 8 mai 1995
Hans-Martin Boehmer.



33
I.     Obiectif Reforme de la structure. de la presentation et du suivi des budgets d 'investissements et
de fonctionnement afin d 'ameliorer I 'affectation et  'utilisation des ressources en fonction des
priorites economigues et sociales.
Presentation du Budget
- Adoption d'une nomenclature normalis6e
- Presentation d'un programme de mise en application du plan comptable public
- Integration des investissements selon la nouvelle nomenclature budgetaire
- Presentation du budget scion la nouvelle nomenclature limitee aux secteurs prioritaires
Finances. la Sante. I'Education. Secteur Rural. et Environnement
- Etablissement des budgets de programmes en respectant la nouvelle nomenclature
La Sant
- Porter les depenses de materiel et de foumitures du M.S.A.S.
- Assurer une matrise des depenses de personnel
- Porter des dotations budgetaires a la couverture des d6pense de maintenance, et d'entretien des
centres de sante et des h6pitaux
- Mfise en oeuvre de Plan d'action prioritaires pour l'Ensignement primaire et de la SaWt6
(Amendement de l'Accord du Creiit d'adjustement structurel)
L' Education
- Accro^itre sensiblement les depenses de materiel et de fourniture du M.E.B.A.M.
- Porter les dotation budgetaire a la couverture des d6pense des services consommds
- Mise en oeuvre de Plan d'action prioritaires pour l'Ensignenent primaire et de la Sante
(Amendement de l'Accord du Creiit d'adjustement structurel)
Programme des Investissements Publiques
- Estimation detail&e des charges recurrentes
Transports
_Voir PASEC-T, prograunmation et execution des travaux d'entretien p6riodic
Lutte contre la pauvret
- Execution de l'enquete prioritaire et publication des r6sultats
- Execution de l'etude sur le profil de pauvrete au Burkina Faso
- Mise en oeuvre des recommendations des etudes actuarielles et de la gestion de la CNSS et de la
CARFO



34
II.    Obiectif Stimulation des investissements prives Mar le biais des reformes du secteur des
entreprises publigues. des banques, du commerce. des prix et des politiques relementaires.
Reform du Secteur des Entreprises Publiques
- Privatisation des entreprises publiques
- Mise en oeuvre des recommendations des etudes sur le r6le de l'OFNACER, GCP, et CSSPA
Riform du Secteur Bancaire
- Demarrge des banques ou mise en oeuvre de la solution alternative (BND-B, UREBA/BFCI/CAI)
- Privatisation de BIB
- Reduire la participation de l'etat au Capital de CNCA, la BICIA, a 25 % au maximum
- Recouvrements
Liberalization du Commerce
- Elimination des restriction quantitatives
- Rationalization du Tarif Dounier
Liberalization du svsteme de contr6le des prix
- Voir PASA, liberalization dy systeme de ce c8ntrole des prix
- Rationalizer le systeme de tarification des prix de produits petroliers
Reforme du cadre juridique et administratif
- Adopter un nouveau Code du Travail
- L'adoption d'un nouveau Code du Commerce
- Promulgation d'un nouveau Code des Investissements



35
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[CR. 2281-BURl
BURKINA FASO
APPENDIX B - BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Borrower's contribution to the ICR was submitted in the form of a revised version of an earlier draft of
Part I of this report.



36
Pi?REMM2R cRrSTDAJrigrFyltfF}:y7,srTSTR           (Cr. 2281 - BUR)
et
CR zJ)IT DApPPUI LA RPr M    I JCO2W4IJrrF (Cr. 2690 BUR)
BURKINA FASO
A.    GENERALrTES
i)    Cadre maeomiu
I     Avaat 1988, les aurlortes du Burkina Faso avaient dtc conintes, en raison de la
faiblesse du revenu na:ional et de li'pargnc priv6e, a mnete en ouvre ure politiqu  de
ddveloppement fonadc sur la predominance du sectour publiqu. C'est ainsi que la parT du
secteur public representait plus de la. moitie du total de Ia formation brute du capital fixe.
L'iconoomic avaic alors conau une croissance relarivement soutenue rdsultant i) de 'exo -aON
de la consommation du sectur public et de ses d6pcnses d'investissemen  t ii) d'uine fonr
croissance du sectetr agricole (6,1 % par an au cours de la peIode 1982-1988) due i des
conditions climariques favorabics at a la mrie en cxUltrc de mrres liberees depuis peu te
L'onchocercose. La secLeur manufacturier, malgre un degrt do prctonnisme assez
importaat. a caregistri de moins bonnes performances. Des facteurs stucrureIs tels qua la
faiblesse des comp6tences techniques et les couts Sleves de I'dncrgie ct du wansporl ne lui ont
pas permis permectaent pas dratrindre les niveau de croissa=c  escomptes. En outre des
mesuxes trs strictes de contr6le des prix ct du commerce ont nui a Ia compeitnvi  . Au cours
de la periode 1989-i990, la fibic pluviometric et l'incapacit i  aeDr les dioenss
publiques au aiveau eleve qu'elles avaient arceint, oat ramenei Ia croissanc, r:elle du Pit a 1%
en moyenne.
2.    Le Burkina dependait, et d6pend toujours. de I'aide trang6re pour ffnancer ls piupart
des investissements publics ct une partie de la consommation. Au cours de la periode 1986-
1990, les d6caissemrents ners de prets et de dons dans le cadre de I'aide publique aux
iavestissements oat represcatd en moyenne pros do 5 % du PrB. Une auuoe ranche de 4 % en
noyenne du PIB corrcspondait aux contributions des bailleurs de foncs au tire de 1'assisrance
technique et de ['aide alimcataire et  celes des organisarions non gouverfneifltales (ONG).
L'Upar;ae etait caleamenm fortement tributaire des eanvois de fonds des travailleurs mxpaxri6s
dans les pays voisins, qui representaicat en moyenne 6 % du PIB au cours de cere memc
pdriodc.
3.    Si les des quilibres cconomiques n'avaient pas arceint des proportions inquiit3tes. la
precarite de la situation etait manifeste. Aussi, le Gouvernement a-c-il decidA de s'adresser a la
Banque et au Fonds avant quc les r6alites economiqucs no nacessitent la mise en oeuvre de
mesures de redressoment draconienres ot couteuscs. Le dialogue sur la gfeston economique,
amorc6 en 1988 dans le cadre de la preparacion du premier memorandum WcoaomquC, s'ost
accclere lorsque la conjoncture s'est dctriore on 1989. Apros des trvau prepratour-s qui
oat eu lieu en 1989, um avanc-projet de Docunent-cadre de politique econounque a fit robjet
de discussions dans des assemblees publiques organisees vers le milieu dc 1a'6c 1990, pour
aboutir, au dobur de [aamde 199t. au premier Document-cadre pour la p$uiode do 1991-1993.
Le Gouvemnement a presort ce document aux Conseils de la Banque et du FMI. au dEbut de
lanae 1991 et le premier Crtdit d'Ajustemnat Structural a cdt approuve par l Banquen juin
1991.
avIW  0jU s
ACHCAS.OOC



37
ii)    Cadre socin-:o=iU
4.    Pendant la pi:node au cours de laquelle la pliuque do dovoloppement s'appuyaa
esscntiellemcnt sur le secteur public, le r6Le de lladministration avaLt pns inormiment
d'irportance et les agents de 1EEat partipaient i tous les aspects de gestion de l'conomie.
Une certaine bureaucraie s'6tait alors comsruec et avait pris de plus en plus de poids.
5.    Les transformations du systeme politique et les profondes reformes institutionnelles,
marquees notamment par la prem.ire  lection pr6sidezxtielle de 1991 ot les cleciions
Iegislatives qui ont suivi au milieu de 1992, devaicat aussi se traduire par Ic d6seugagement
de I'Etai de la gestion direct do r6conomie. Si aux plus hauts niveaux du Gouvemement on
notait un changement trs aet d'oenation, une ferme volonte do Usformer l'&onomie, Cet
una profonde comprehension des changements quil filait ndccssaireMen= apporter a la
fonction publique, on norait egalement une relaiive inctice dans les comportemn=ts de certainS
agents de l'Etat. Les etforts de sensibilisation et de mobilisation entrepris n'onLt pas suffi
6.    Ea raisonr du climat politiqu  en picine evolution, il y a eu uno rapide succession de
ministres a plusicurs postes cIes, ce qui a compliqu6 la isce en oeuvre des rfozmnes. Ces
reformes ont et cacore ralenres par uwe forction publique qui navait pas Ua le temps de
s'adapter i son nouveau rnandat Ainsi, alors que des docisions prises au nivea poiitiqu
pour modifier le r6lc du Gouvemement et lib6raliser l'tconomie Ctaient confcrotises da  es
rextes reglementitres. lour application. qui dipendait des agents de l'Etar, a connu des retards
considmrables.
iii) Rl,6e de la Ranau:
7.    Jusqu'au lancement du programme d'ajustemeat structurel, la Banque n4vait jouE
qu'un role limite dars le orocessus de developpement du Burkina Faso. concenrant scs
investissemens dans les sectours de I'Agiculture e. du Transport Les relatons enne la
Banque et le Bur-kina Faso s4taient detzirorees au poilt qu'aucun nouveau crdit n!a etd
approuve en 1986 at en 1987. Les relations se sont netrement amnliordes er les o*prations de
prct ont repris en 1988 aprs; que les pouvoirs publiques aient affiche leur volonre
dencreprcndre de rdformer en profondeur les instirutions et le r6le de rEcat dans la gestion de
leconomie. Les pourparlcrs concosnant les premieres op:autions d'ajustemenrt ont commence
an :989. Apres plusicurs siries de discussions preliminaires. [es nregociations ont comrenco
en mai 1991. La surategic d!aide de Ia Banque visait a l'6poque A: i) soutenir les actions
cruciales visant & arrenucr les coneraintes a long terme au doveloppement wconomique ac
social; ii) aider le Gouvornement a instaurer um cadre reglementaire propice a lessor du
sec.eur prive; et iii) aidcr lc Gouvememem a mieux gcrer les ressources pubtiques.
8. Dans le meme temps, il etait envisag4e dans le cadre de cette strategie d'accroiltre de
manier= substantielle le volume des pret  de la Banque au Burkina. De 1985 a 1990, le
volume annuel des prdts a etc d'environ 20 millions de dollars; il a quadruple daxn la pAriode
1990 a 1995 alors que le montant annuel moyen. des nouveaux pr6ts a dopasse 80 millions de
dollars.
aW  pgja STWMAS
ACHCASDC



38
B.    DESCRIPTION ET EVALUATION DES OBJECfIFS
i)    - Obiectifi du  rojet
9.    Le principal objectif du premier Credit d'Ajustemeat Structurel (CAS I) (Cr. 2281 -
BM de 60 millions de DTS, signr le 5 juillet 1991 ct cntri en vigucur Ic 17 septembre 1991)
etait d'appuyer le programme global drajustement du Burkina Faso ddcrit dans le premier
Document-Cadre de Politiquc Economique (D.C.P.E) de 1991-1993, avec pour but
d'ameliorer la geston des ressources publiques et dc mette en place des mesurs incitazives
au dcveloppement du secteur prive. De fa9on plus precise:
a a)   le volet gestion du secteur public consistmt ente autres i redistribuer les
dotations budtaires courantes en faveur du developpemcnt des ressources humaines,
a prepaxer un programme de riforme de la gestion de la fonction publique at a
ameliorer la prograrmaton des investissements; et
a b)   le volet mesures incitatives pour le secteur prive se concentrait sur la
restrucuration des entreprises publiques et du secteur bancaire ainsi que sur la
r6forme du commerce et du cadre reglcmcnaire.
10.   A la suite de la devaluation du r=c CFA. le 12 janvier 1994. le Conseil a approuv6 le
Crddir d'Appui a la Relance Economique (CARE) (Cr. 2590-BtR) le tO mars 1994, qui a
pour objet d'aider le Gouvemernent dans ses effarts de reforme en vue de favoriser une
croissance dont le steur prive serait ie principal agent et d'alliger la pauvrce.  Les
priacipales mesures apouyees par c_ credit ^comprnaienr:
- c)    une augmentation de l'ordre dc 40 %  du prix a la production du coton de
premier choix,
* d)    urie senre de mesures pour artenuer les effets sociaux n6gaifs de la devaluarion;
. e)    une gestion rigourcuse de la demande de faion a reduire la consomrnAnion
publique et a limiter les hausses salariales; et
*f)   I'cx6cution de mesures essentieUes en vue d'accroltre la couverrure et la qualiti
de 1'enseignement prinaire et des services de santc dans le cadre d'un Plan d'action
prioritaire pour P'ducation et la sante. Certe composante a te formellement irlgrce
dans le CAS L en tant que condition additionnelle au decaissement de la troisierme
tanche, afin de relier clairement les mesures prises a la suite de la dovaluanon aux
reformes lanc1csanIc lecadre du CAS I.
11.   De par sa conception, le premier Credit d'Ajustement Structurel s'inscrivait dans le
droit fil de la strategic daidc-pays de la Banquc et du Document-cadre de poliiiquc
economique prepar en dtroite collaboration entrc les autorit6s burkinabe, le Fonds moneairm
intemrnational et la Banque mondiale.
&Vsa projs STPPAS
AOICAS.DOC



39
12-   L'aidc de la Banque s'articulait autour d'une combinaison de Credit d'Ajustement
Strucrurel (CAS/CARE ct Credits d'Ajustement Sectoriel ) et des Prt-PrO ets. notamment
pour le d6ve1oppement de ressources humaines et la preservatioz des ressources narlles.
Plusieurs projcts cat ete spicifiquement conaus pour venir ,raycr le CAS I: des rdformes dans
le secteur agricolc. qui dcvaient  r mises en ocuvrc dans le cadre du Crcdit d!Ajusternent du
Sccreur AgrlcolC (PASA); le programme de privatisations, appuyi  par le Projet d'Asscc
au Secteur Pnrve; les reformes de la gestion des Finaces Publiques, qui devaient etre
approfondies dans le cadre du Projet d'Appui a l'Adzninistaton (PA-4k); et i'amclioration de
I'affectarion des ressOurcOS aux ransports et a I'dducation qui devair etre realisee grace au
Credit d'Ajustement du Secteur des Transports (pASECT) et au Quatri6me projet Education
(ED tV).
ii)    Fvaluaria]3 des objectifa
13.   Avant le lancement du processus d'ajustement sucturel, la r6parition des d6penses
publiques a'dtait guere de nature a favoriser les objectifs 61mentaires de d6veloppement ct le
secteur prive fonctionnait dans un cadre comnportant de fortes distorsions et cont-aintes. Les
deux objectifs du CAS I etaient donc tout indiques. puisque les deux secteurs devaient
simultanement faire l'objcr de rdformes profondes.
I A.   Le Cr6dit d'Appui a la Relance Economique est venu dans Le sillage de la d&valuation,
quL, dc son ct6. avait offert au Gouvernement une excellente occasion d'approfondir ses
etforts de r6forme. I! 6tait judicicux de vouloir s'assur= que les iacitations creces par la
d6valuation scraieat zepercutees au producteur. En m6me temps, l'acceldradon des efforts
dans Lcs secteurs de l'enseignement epnnare ct dc la santa etait tout a fait conformne a la
stractgie de doveloppement que le Burkina s'itait donnce dans le cadre du CAS I.
C.     REALISATION DES PRINCIPAUX OBJECTIFS
15.   Les objcctifs du CAS I anlt ete globalernent atteints. En particulier, les r6fonnes dans
le domaine de la liberaiisation du conmerce et des prix ont &h significatives, lassainissement
des finances publiques et le retablissenent des equilibres budgeraires se rdaiisent
conformTnment aux obicc.ifs et des efforts ont er6 consentis pour que les secteurs prioritaires
de l'enseignerneat primnaire ct de la sante soient au centre des preoccurations. Les retards
releves concernent la -nisc en oeuvre du progranune de privatisanon des enrreprises publiques
_s des banques. Ce programre representait, dans sa conception, une dearchc rationnelle
:nais tr s arnbitieuse pour parvenir aux objectifs recherches.
I)      bicctifs _nacro-sc
16.   D'entrie de jeu. le programme dajustement du Gouvernement a _tc appuye A la fois
par la Banque. par le FondS ainsi que par divers parcenaires du Burkcina Faso. Les mesures
mises on ocuvre dans ce cadre ont permis de stabiliser Viconomic, apres 'a forte deterioration
dc la periode 1988-1989. Mais les dif6cult6s pr6cidernment citees dans la mises en oeuvre
des r6formes instirurionnclles cc la longueu.r du processus de dhmcrazzSaUon avaient entrarin
des derapages imporrants du programmeun   macro-conomique et navaient pas Pems
d'actualiser, pour 1992, le Document Cadre dc Politique Economique (D.CP.E). U a fallu
attendre le debut de l'anncc 1993 pour que Le deuxieme Document-cadre soit pret e, depuis
lors. dcs mnises a jour annuelles du Document-cadre ont permis de faire le point sur les progres
realises dans Le retablissenent d'un, environnement m=o-economique viable. L'adh6son au
avant proj* SW7PAS
ACHCAS.DOC



40
cadre de politique gendrale constituait une condition aux decaisscements de la deuxeime et de
la rroisieme uranche du CAS I.
17    Ritablissement de la croissance du FIB. Le programme d'ajusternent a jetd les bases
d'une croissance durable. Apres une p4riode de croissance du PIB de L'ordre de 4% sur la
periode 1983-88 , cottc derniere a eti rompuc au cours des anndcs 1989-1990 confirlTaat la
fragiliti des bases de la croissance. Le premier Document-cadre de poliicique economique
s'tair fixe pour but un raux de croissance  reelle moyenae du P1B dc 4 %, cc qui aurait
repr6scard des gains riels par habitantC GTrce a. une pluviomEtrie tres favorable, la croissac
avait etc de 6% en 1991. La c.roissance s'est naintenue en 1992 (*2,5%/X), mais en 1993 la
situation &conomique s'etait a nouveau dctuiorde- Les mesures prises dazs le cadrc du
programme s'`taient revdles insuf5santes notamment en raison du taux d: change prauqud et
qui penalisait fortement la production locale. La devaluation de janvier 1994 a pe
d'eliminer cot handicap ct, apres une courte psriode de sgation due a I'arttenisme des
operateurs economique, le Burkina Faso a rctouve le chemin de la croissance. ELte a ropris,
mal,gre des pr6cipirations trcs defavorables en. 1994 et elle devrait sc situmr, a moyen ternme. a
pJus de 5 % par an Pn moyenae.
18. Riduction du ddficit budgeraire. UzJn e1ment clef du programme consistait i riduire lc
defcic budgctairc global et a regler les arrieres de paiement interieurs at cxteneurs. Dcs
progres appreciables ont tet rdaiises en 1991, et le deficit a ete plus faibcle que pr vu. Les
recertes ont largemen. ddpasse leurs objectifs, ce qui a permis uac r6duction beaucoup plus
marquce que prevue des arrires inrteriurs, mais des retards dans les nigcciations portant sur
la restructuration avec les creanciezs bilateraux oat eu pour effet de =a.intenir les arrieres
extenrieurs bien au-dessus des niveauxs envisages. Au debut de lannec :992. Ia ges=Ton des
finances publiques s'es; forcmmnt dedde, en  partic en  raisor. du  processus de
democratisatioa. Les efforts depioyis par kc Gouvemement pour accrotre les recettes ct
resserror les depenses en vue de recti5er la situation au ccurs du deuxiisme zimestre de 1'ann6c
ont ,rd contrecarres par des fac-eurs exogenes, comne une pluviomc._ defavorable et la
chute des cours du coron.  Le nouveau programme pour 1993. appuye par la Facilitd
d'ajusrcmen2 structurel renforce du F.M.I., s'est efforcd de partir des acquis de la fin de l'annec
1992 Dour ameiiorer la situation des finances publiques. En 1993, les rec.res mobiLisees sont
rouzeoois restees en deqa des objectifs filxs, en raison du ralentissement des activitds ct de la
quasi stagnation du PIB (-0.8% en volume par rapport a1992) et des di:cultds rencontres
dans La misc en oeuvre de la reforme fiscale. L'introducrion de la TVA -:s le budger 1993 a
_e6 trop hklivc, cr lc nouveau tarif douanier, maigr6 diminution dcs caez:ories de raux er une
dispersion moindre dcs taux. n'a cas ate appl[iud sans uce difficultes. A partir de 1994 ces
mrness reformes, combinees au rcntforcement des regies de recettes. ont -e-is d'araeliorer le
niveau des rccsttes fiscales et, en ' 995, Les previsions budg6taires scrot -.crtement ddpassees.
19    Des efforts ont esalement re faits pour maitriser les d6penses er L-tirer leur croiisance
a des niveaux comparibles avec ociui des receutcs budgetaires. Au cours de la periode 1991-
1993, le deficit budgetaire global (base engagement, hors dons) s'est ndanmoins dgrade en
raison: i) de 1'enregistrement effectif et de rnanifre exhaustive, de toutes les ddpenses de
; Ecat telles les consommations d7eau , d'electriciti et de telephone -ui ne I'dient pas
toujours auparavant, ii) de l'inscription au budget de L'Etat d'un important volume de
depenses pour la restrucrurazion etiou la liquidation des encreprises publiqus at des banques,
et iii) de la necessire d'augmenter les crddits pour les secreurs crnontres que sont
I'cducation, la santc et l'entretic des infrastrucrtes routicres. En 1994. malgrd des receaes
infelneures au aiveau escompte, ce deficit a eti contenu dans los limites du programme. Hors
operations dc rstrucuration, le dficit a dct r6duit a 1,4% du PIB en 1994 et l.s pr&wisions de
cl6ture indiquent sa quasi disparition en 1995. alors que celic-ci n eait pas artendue pour
avant 1997.
avow proj@j STP/PAS
ACHCAS.DOC



41
Tableau 1 TndiAteurs
1991           1992                       1993
Proji - ~-AiZU~tU~   rogra    StAsltat Progra   i Rsultat   ProgrRamc
Variacion anuelle en Pourcentaj
PIB a pr ix consmn            4,0      6,0 ..7,                        3.9j        s 4  ,
Ddflateur du PLB              S,I       4,3                             1.9       1.4     2Z,7.7      2.9
Prix  la consommadon          5.0.      5,1                  -20        1,2!      0,6      31,2 1     24.7
En pourcsncge du PIB
Rcttest(dons excLus)         13,1      14.0                  I 1.S     14,31     12,6      10,j       11/0
DNens at Prdts nes           20,8      21,l                  20.9      2277      22,9      2S.6       22|0
D4ficic budg4tairs global,
bue engagemeats, dons
exclus                       .7.7      .7,2           *      -91       -8,4     .10,3       14,8     .11,0
Tnvcestusmen bru:            21,3     2233 21,6                        Z5,5    23,7        2S,9j      25,3
Epargn. Ntaonaic Brute       16,3      19,8           ,      20,9        l '      0,4      25.41      2Z,6
Epargne Intiricur Brute                                       4,9                 5,6       6,9        6,1
Soldt Comptc coumnac                                                      j,
Aide publique incluse      .5.0       -3.4                 -0.7       7,4       -3,3      -3.5 '     2.7
Aid publique exclue        -13,2     .14,1          -      12,1     -15,6'    -13,9      -2.0o    -13.9
Source: Documenm-cadres de politque dconomiqus (199t, 1993, 1994 ct 1995)
. ote: 1I n'y & pas eu de progr=rna annual en 1992. Ea ouam, los donnats sur las comptes de la Nat  on: 
rcviseos i compter du dcuxieme Document-cadre pour y liaoroorer de nouvdUes escimazzons sur lataille du
sectcur infonnel. Tous las ranos du PIB ont &A ajustis an fbncuron du nouveau niveau du PIS.
20.     faiTrrise di l'inflation.  Le Burkina Faso, comme toute la zone franc, a totg<ours
bdneficid d'une inflaton amoddrdo. une tendance qui s'est maintenue tout au long du
programme d'ajustamenL Le Burkina a rcussi ,a limiter la hausse des prix dans l sillage de la
divaluation.  Ainsi pour 1994. alors que le programme envisageait uac hausse annuelle
rnoyenne des prix a la consommation de 31 Ye, l'inflation a Fe effectivemc  limite a moins
de 25 %. cc ui a fait du BurkLina Faso l'un des pays les plus performants dans cc done
dans la zone C  A.
ii)    Qe-%Unn ds reso=es ibg
21.    Goston des ddpnses courantes. La part inWorta=e des dss  publiques coDM:O
a la masse sariale conscituait un obstaAle de tail]   L    gltaow. En 1989, Ics sa1aims at
trastements repr ic   65 %  des depes  couramnx, contm S4 % urois ,s sculUel
auparavant Las  sm.r   de ifonme de la gestion des dipses courantes ont done cb*he
vUK pVSqM STPPAS
ACCASDOC



42
essentiellement a limiEtr la pan de la masse salanalc dons l,ensemble des ddpenses courantes,
au profit d'une augmentation des depenses de mat6xiel ct de fournitures. Cctte r6duction de la
massc salariale devait se produim dans un coatexe ou du personael SuppIdmentaire serait
embauche pour les secteurs prioritaires. En, outre, une nouvelle nomenclanure budgetaire
devait eLre misc en place et le suivi des ddpenses devait atre amdlior&.
22.   Le Gouvernement a fait des progres importants dans ses efforts de reductior. de la
masse salariale par rapport a 1'ensemble des depenses courantes. Le prenier examen des
d6penses publiques, realise en 1992, a etd tres utile a cet egard. En identiflant clairement les
conu-aintes resultant de la suctue existanre des depcnses, le Gouvernement a mis en place
une politique de reorientation des dotations budgctaires. L'analyse des resultats de cette
politique est rendue diffcile par lc fait que le proccssus budgetaire dans son ensemble et le
sy steme de suivi de I'exdcurion du budget comporte encore des insuffisances. Les donnoes
disponibies sur l'dvolution de la rnasse salariale confinnent quc les efforts faits par lc
Gouvemntement pour maitriser la. masse salanale out abouti a des rxsultats appreciables
notamment apres la devaluation, lorsque des mesures strictes de contrdlc de la haiusse des
salaires ont permis de limiter la croissance de la masse sajariale a un peu moins de 10 % an
termes nomiaaux (voir tableau 2).
23.   La programmation et le suivi des d6penses coanaissent eacore des insufflsances. Lcs
efforts d'amelioration de la gestion des d4penses publiquos ont ete au d6part appuyes par la
Revue des dUpenses publiques, qui a formulA ua certain nombre de recomnmandations precises
pour am6liorcr la cstion budgetaire, A la fois pour le budget courant et pour le budget
d'investissement.  I1 n'a cependant pas eSC possible de mettre en oeuvrc toutes ces
reconmandations, bien que des series de mesures arrertes, dans Ic cadre des programmes
annueis approuves par lo FMII et visant une plus grande maintise de la gestion budg6taire, aieat
etc prises et concrttisdcs. C'est ainsi qua depuis 1994, des donrnces chiffrees, d6taiilees et
relativement fiables sur les opdrations fmnarcieres des aeministrations cenaales, soat produires
mensuellenczt danas des d6lais ne depassant pas la quinzaine de jours. ElIes ont pennis
d'=neliorer sensiblemnent La maitrise de l'execution du budget et. i travcrs lui. le progamme
.conomique du gouvemerment D'autrcs actions visan la rdduction des circuits de la d6oense,
I'amndliorarion de la gestion de la tresorcrie, ou encore le concr6le de 1'Ivolution de la derte sur
la dipense interioure, ont aussi ete engagees et devrait aboutir a partir do 1996. L'IDA a. pour
sa part, appuyc les rerortnes dans ce domaine a rravers le Projet de diveloppemrnt des
institutions publiques (Cr. 2378-BUR), lanc4 en 1992. C'est dans le cadre de cc projet qu'a pu
itre realise en j uin 1995, r agrc le retard sur le caleandier initial. le recensemcnt des ag-nts de
la fonction publique.
24.   Conime precvu, Ic Gouvernement a introduit une nouvelle nomenclature avec le budget
de 1992, 6labor6e avec ['aide du F.M.I. mais dont 1'application s'esc r_velee difficile. Son
adoption a foremernt perturbe le processus budgetaire et les efforts de suivi des realisations.
sans Apporter d'amelioradion notable. C'cst pourquoi, ee toujours avec i'appui du F.NU, une
nouvelle revision do la nomenclature budgetaire a ete realisec en 1994-1995 pour erre
appliqu6e pour le budget 1996. Pour I'avenir, lefforr deorait s'orientcr plus sur la maiTrise de
la prograrnmation budgetaire quc sur le suivi de ilcxecution du budget.
avuut poj4 STPAS
ACHCAs.Doc



43
Tableau 2: Dipcases courartes Ct masse salarialc
(en milliards de franc CFA)
1991       1992       1993      1994
Depenses cour2antes    -        -                           1 11 LZI      Q
Salaires et Iritamrnnts              54,1       50.9       522|      58.2
Traxufcrts Uius aux saaires          n.a.        4,6        5,6 |      53
Masse saiariLic toWle               54,1       55.5       57,8       63,5
Masse salariale an tant qua pouwcaits  57.4       59,2       4S.9       48,5
des depeascs counres                                       _
Source Exanicn preliminaires *dpens.s publiques, 1995.
25.   Programmation des imvesrtssmmenrs publics.  Les rcformcs dans le secteur du
Programme d'investissement public (PIP) sont pJvclucs a aumcliorer le portefuilic de projets
d'investissements en 6liminant des projets non economiqucs. TouEefois, le PIP n'est pas
encorc dcvcnu un outil de programnmaton, at rest  un simple repertoire des projets
gouvernementaux.   Le budget d'investissement davraiE refleter Ia premier  annee du
Prograne Triennal dInvestissement Public a horizon glissant, ce quif a'cst pas encore le ca.
La difficultd reside probablemen dans le fair que les dons et prets projets reprdsentt 90% du
programme d'investissemcnt et que les bailleurs de fonds sont nombreux et pratquent des
procddurcs de decaissements er de suivi aussi variecs quc diverses. t.'effort * veOir devrait
porter sur 1'arn6[ioration de la coordination. la ceonaisatiol du suivi des r6alisations tant
physiques qua financieres. I'evauation ec l'insscription, dans les budgets de fonctionnement
des charges recurrentes.
26.   Conceniration sur les secteurs pnontaires.  Avant le d6mairage du programme
d'ajustcment la politique budgerirc ao rcfl.tait aucune pziotitd sectonelle clairemcnt dAfinie.
L'ensoignement primaire, Les soias de saare d1dmecitaires er 1onatrtien des inra  s de
base en avaaent donc pid. Vu la strat6gie de doveloppement du Burkina Faso dofisic par le
CAS, une attenuon pardcutliere devait etre pormee aux secteurs de la sante at de l'6ducation,
aitisi qu'a 1'e-ecxicn de l'infrastructue roucicrc. C'est ainsi quuil ertair acessaire d'iablir un
cien explicite entre leg socteurs pnoritaires et Les pr6visions budgdtaires contenues dans le
Document-cadre. Pour cc faie. ii apparaissait necessaire de gasan.nr une augmenion des
dotations budgdcaires aux secteurs de la saant et de 1'6ducation. Lorsque les dotazlons
'oudgetaires sectoriclUes ont edt assur6es, des mesures precises ont etei mises en oeuvre pour
asurzer une rneiLleure prestazion des services au moyen d'operations secLonelles, plus
particulfircme=t IED IV, qui a renforc6 les zdformes demarres dans le cadre du GAS 1.
27.   Le CAS I prevoyait de faqon dikaiUee l'affectation de ressources su.eSatcs aux
secteurs prioritaires. Les budgcts programmes depuis 1991 vont dans cc sns. Cela apparait
nettemcnt si l'on rapporte les dopcnses de fonctionnement (salaires, achats de biens et services
pour Ic fonctionnement et les tralsfets courants) dcs ministeres cODceCneS au total des
depenses de focictionnoment hors transforts pour restructurations des baiqucs at ent CpIS  at
pour la fili6re cocon. Cola apparait CnCore plus nettemrne  si l'on fait ces memeS calculs pour
les depenscs effectives (deprnses engagees ot liquidoes). Cela a et facilitc par le fait que
beaucoup de bailleurs d  fond, s'inscrivant dans Ic cadre des programmes apprOuves Pa la
Banque Mondiale oc le FhI, ont r6srvc des parts importances de lcurs appus financi;s  aux
dtipenses pour Les sctos prioritaires.
avu projat STWPAS
ACHCAS.0OM



1' JiTN  ,   --- _.
44
28.   Par ailleurs. le CAS I contenait des clauses vfsanL a accroitre les depenses pour
1'cntrctin routier, qui devaicat etre supervisees dans le cadre du Credit d'ajustemcat du
secteur des tan3ports. Au depar le prograrnme visait a porter le budget aanuel de l'entretica
rouier a 3 milliards de francs CFA. Apres la devaluation, le budget de 1994 prdvoyait une
doEarion de 4,4 rnilliards de &ancs CFA pour 1994 et celui de 1995 de 4,9 mfilliards de FCFA.
Le lien antre le CAS I et le PASECT s'est redvel6 ts efficacc.
29.   Plan d'acrton prioritaire.  La dvaliorion de janvier 1994 a ouvert de nouvelles
perspectives de reaffectation des dopencs budg6taires. Le Gouvemement a traduit sa
ddterminaElon par un engagement a consacrer davantage dce ressourrcs a 1Nducation et a la
santc coimme realdtd dans le Plan d!acton prionrtairc pour l'nseignmnent primaire et la sant6
du Credit d'appui a la relance economique.
30.     dciatin  Le programme d'action du Gouvemeent dans le sect=ur de I'dducation
avait pour objectif de faire passer le taux de scolarisation prinairs de 28 % en 1988 i un
minnimum de 40 % en 1996, cc qui exigeait lembauche de 950 nouveaux instUtut= chaque-
annec. Le GouvememenE a areint cot objectif et a pu faire passer au cours de I'ainfe scolaire
1993-1994, le taux de scolarisation i 33 % ( estimations). Meme si ces rsultats rcstent en
deca de l'objectif fixcx au debut du programme, to nombre dt16ves inscrits au primaire est
passe de 530.000 en 1991-1992 a au mois 600.000 en 1993-1994.
31.   De plus, les mesures prdvuos dans le Plan d'action priorintaire out et incorporecs au
CAS I comme condi-ions de dicaisseronm  do la troisi6me -anche. Co programme a ctc 6S
concluant et a permis i'embauche de 2.320 nouveaux enseignants ainsi quc la conclusion dun
accord avec Faso Baara pour la construction et l'equipement de cent ecoles. La rcntec
scolaire 1994-1995 st'sr donc ddroulIe sans accroc, la vaste majoritd des instinuteurs avant tet
ii leur poste lors de la reacree scolaire, ceci pour la prernicr fois depuis de nombreuses
,-.ees .
32.   An. Dans 1e secteur de la saate. les pnorites consistaicnt a ameliorer la couverntre,
la qualite CT lucilisaLion des services de soins primaires. A cet egard. le Gouvernemer  a
appliqu6 une politique dc deccncrAlisation des services de santd publique, en accordant
noranment en 1993 tine autonomie financier aux formations sanitaires et en metant en pLace
tin r6-ime de recouvrement partiel des cou1ts pour les services octroyes Ct les ra4dicanemre
fours, donnant ainsi un sens veritablc acete autonomie. En outre. dans le but d'assurer une
large disponibilitc et un coCat abordable des medicaments, le Gouvernement a rus en oeuvre
une politique de commercialisazion dos medicaments essenticls et generiqucs.  Afin
d'encourager l'uilisarion de ces mrndicaments generiques par ic biais du secteur priv6, le
Gouvernement a autorise les pharmacicns a exploiter des points de vente de detail et a
prescrirc les equivalents gineriques. II a ea outre remplace le systme de contr6le des prix a
marge bendficiairm tixe pour tous les medicaments par une tiste nationale des prix porcant sur
environ 70% des medicamcnts essenniels ct gcneriques les pius fr6querinent uti1is4s. Au lieu
de stocker des medicmocats de marque SL prix cleve, les pharmacicns ont donc optc pour des
aiddicaments generiques mais couwtiux. Dans ce domaine, le Burkcina esz devenu um rnodele
dans la region.
33.   Le systkie pour la distribution et le recouvrement des coits des m.dicaments
essentiels et genmques, mis en place par le gouvernement daLans    cadre de lniutnive de
Bamako et avec l'aide tchniqu  de l'UNICEF, a conceri environ 500 formations sanitaires
peripheriques et de districL Lexecution de cctc mesure a routefois ece plus lento que prevu
w4nK pOja SMT/PAS
ACHCAS.DO1



45
en   son dc la complexite inacrendue du progarnme et du maque de coordinaton des
objectifs des bailleurs de fonds. Cependant, elle est aujourd'hui ca bonne voic.
Tableau 3 Affd                                 secteur social
1991       1992      1993       1994
MEBA&M (millions FCFA)                                    IQ O  677  .l4226
dont (un%.)
personnol                         95-2a 94.1 u7 eA; i12S
eiquipmecnts                       ;=         A.= 4M nS5 S            %
caaisfercsi                        I5o        1 7%       2M        13 0
Total NMEBAM en % du tota educanon   SO.2%      48,5%/.    50,2%     50a9%
Sante (millions FCFA)
dont (en%)
personnel
Fquip.msnets
transf1s                                            _
Sourco :Examon proliminair: des d6p.nses publiques. 1995.
iii)    Mesures incitatives en faveur du secteur prv6
34.   Rifbrme des enzreprises publiques. Au debut du programme d'ajustemncu, la secteur
parapublic comprenait 96 entreprisos, dont 35 de creation recente. La prezi6re phase du
pro-amme de privatisation prevu dans le cadre du CAS I visait a riduire la participation du
Crouvemement dans 1' entrepnses a un maximum  dc 25%. Le programme -lobal de
privatisation du Gouverrnement avait pour objectif de ramener Facrionnariat du Gouvenement
a un maximui de 25 % dans toutes les entreprises commerciales ot industrielles oeuvrant
dans les secteurs non strategiques.
35.   Auparavant, lc Gouvermement avair adopte toutes les nodifications nicessaires au
droir des encreprises pour rendre los enweprises d'Etat plus efficaces et soumetze leur
fonctuonnement aux principes commerciaux. La Loi sur la Privarisarion a et: proposee par le
Conseil des Ministres en juillet 1991 er, peu apres, adoptee par le Parlement de mczme qu'une
premic:c liste de soci6tes a privatiser. Apres queiques reEards, la Commission de Privazisaton
fut misc en place pour superviser, la cession de ces entrepnses. Le programme avait pris un
boan dcparE puisque des offies iniriales avaicnt ztc faites pour la plupart des antreprises dont la
privaUsation avait ert autorisee par le Parlement. Toutefois. vers la fin de 1993. de nouvelles
difficuites d'ordres divcrs comme celles Iiees aux progres realises dans la democrazisation des
institutions at l obligation de transparence. apparurent et ont ralwi le travail de la
commission. De plus les offres de reprises etaient souvent crop en deg  de cc qui -tait
souhaite. Ces problcmes onr necessitte une redefinition de la composition, des sram    at des
regles de fonctionnement de la commission de privatisaton; ce qui a ete fait en 1994.
36.   En mauiere de privatisation, tois problemes fondamentaux  taicnt n effet appar.
Prcmi6rcment. la Comnission de Privatisation tait composee de fonctio=,    r
plusicurs minist&es, qui ne conswa;ait qu'une partie de lcur temps A la pnvataon.
Ava piuje S7rP/I?AS
ACHCA&DmO



46
Certains d'entTe eux ne semblaient pas ltre familier avec le Programme de Priva:isation.
Deuxiermement. te fait que le programme soit peu cormu. a l'actrieur du pays comre a
l1'eC:rjeur, a Iimite le aombre doffres reques. Troisiemement, le progranune n'a pas ben6ficie
de 13 participation du secteur bancaire local. cc qui. en soi, n'est pas forcement surprenant; le
scotcur traversam  lu-mieme une phase de restrUCturation profonde mais qui souleve une
qucstion de choix du moment. RerrospectivemenE. il cut ete preferablc que lc secteur bancaire
ait e*r associe plus dtroitement au processus de privatisation. Par aillcurs, dans certains ca;,,
le Gouvcmement, pour des raisons lices aux reglements des problemes sociaux, a ct  contraint
de conserver sa part de 25% contre la prdfdrence eexiince par l'acheteur porentiel.
37.   A fin 1994, le aombre d'ezaeprises privatisies ou liquidees Atait de 12, et 19 auts
cntrecrises etaient en cours de privatisation. Les subventions de l'Etat aux entreprzs
publiques ont te fortement rdduites. Toutefois, ['impact de la privatisation sur la relance de
l'investissement at des actvitds productives est reste faible. L'accent a & trap mis sur la
reduction du rdle du secteur public er pas assez sur l'aioissemnt de 1'efficacite et dces
activites productives des entreprises. Trop peu de tamps a ete consacrc au deveioppeent
d'une approche cohicnte de la privatisation, basc sur une comprehension par toures les
parties des objeccifs recherches et des options possibles.
38.   Rorganisation du secreur bancaire.  ParaMilement i I'ajustement dans d'autres
secteurs, le GOu.vecmenenL a decide, en juin 1990, d'amorcer un processus de rdforme du
secteur bancaire. dans le but de le r6habiliter ct de d6velopper l'intermcdiation fmnancire. Le
GouventemenL a aussi decide de limiter sa participation dan. les cinq pdncipa]es banqs
CoMmerciales  i un maxiinum de 25 %. Avant de proceder i cc desengageMent, il faliait
toutefois entrept=drc la r6organisation corrmplee des banques pour soit garantir leur viabilie.
soit, le cas echiant, amorcer les proc_idures de Liquidaion.  A  la mdme epoque, le
Qouvemement La procede a I'achat des creances compromises figurant alors dans le bilan des
banques d'Etat et par la suite a con5fl  leur recouvrement au BRCB. Le rcouvrement a
cspendant dte erirrave par la lenteur des banques a foumir Ics documents cE justificauifs des
creances, la norL solvabilit6 d un grand .nombre do crrancirs ct La lenteur des procdduzcs
judiciaires.
39.   Des cinq banques. quatre on cte prepar6es a la privatisation, la cincuieme, la B,ND-B.,
devant -tre liquid6e. Toutafois, a La fin de 1994, seulc fa privatisation de la BICIA-B avait &
acPev6e, en ce sens que le secreur prive detenait 75 % des parts sociales. L_ Gouversenact
nrctant pas parvenu a ctder au sccteur prive ses participations au capital de La CNCA or de la
BIB. il les a confiees en fidelconmnis a la Banque Ouest-Africaine de Devcloppement
(BOAD). La privatisarion du groupe BFCI n'a obtenu le feu vert do la Commission Bancaire
qu'en Mars 199S ca raison de retards mis par lc repreneur pour fournir tous les documemts
rcquis. La liquidation de la BND-B qui aurait du interrenir au debut de 1993 n'est inEervenue
qu'cn Decernbre de cette anned et devrait etre achevec au debut de 1996.
40.   Des le d6part, la reorganisation du secteur bancaire s'esr revele cornme etant un des
aspects les plus difiiciles du proeanme. C'est au.ssi l'ue des actions dont la mise en oeuvre
a souvent fait t'objet do controverses avec les representaaEs do la Banque Mondiale. Le.
gouvernement, tout coiume les aurrs partenaires, avait sous-estimie les difficultes et a'avait
pas accorde I'artntion ni les moycns en rapport avec 1' importance de l'opdration qui a cofit
' Banque intemationale du Burkina (BIB). la Banque iztemationale pour Ic commarce, I'industri ct
r'agriculwre (BICIA-8); la Banque pour le financemont du conwerce ct do rfndusris (BFCI). qui a fusion" pa-
la sLite avec deux bques de moindre importance; la Caisse natonals de cr6dit agicole (CNCA); at la Barqu
nanonzal de d6veloppanent du Burkina (BND-8).
Av=E PMo" SWIPAS
ACHCAS.0QG



47
plus de 60 milliards dc FCFA. L'effort de la BCEAO n'avaiE pas cEt non plus en rapport avoc
los cxi-gences de I'opdratrion De son coct la Banque, en exigeant, du mouis dans les premiCrs
temps, la celerite das lc processus de privarisation a fait que certaLfes erreurs n'ont pu ec
evitees. Cela fut IC cas lorsque, par exemple. les repreneurs des banques avaiaot oxigc la
renuneration des titres emis par I'Etat en contreparric du rachat des creances compromiscS.
Cerce remunration, 'avait pas ete initialement prcvue, mais elle a dtc cxigc- par IeS
representants des banques a la veille de lechiance imposee par la Banque Mondiale (30 juin
1994) pour finaiser l'opiration de titrisaiion.
40 bis En 1995 on peut conSidorer quoe 'objectif de rdduire la pcipaion de 1'Etat dan
chaque banque a un maximun de 25% a etc a pcu pres atteint ct le BRCB est en voic de
reaLiser son objectif dc recouvrement de 30% des prets recouvrables-. L'inrmidiaton
fnancire et la mise a disposition do ressources pour V'investisscmn=t du secteur Prive n'ont
cependant pas atreint le niveau souhairA. Les banqucs continuenlt d'accumulor d'importanss
liquidites at nc prdt=t que des rnontants limites pour le financement de l'investissement priv#.
Une analyseplus ddtail.ee de l'evolution du systtme bancaire au Burkina Faso depuis la mise
en oeuvrc du programme d'ajustement a fait l'objet d*un rapport qui a ote rmi au
Gouvernment en avril 1995.
41.   RdglemenatiGn du commerce exririeur. Le Gouvcrnement a commenc4 an 1990 A
deployer des efforts visanE i accroltrm la concurrence en mazicre do commerce extr-c-. Les
auronisations prdalables a l'exportation ont dcc abolies pour tous les produits a I'oxcear cn dcs
cereales, le mrnopoic de I'Etat sur les exportaions a etc supprime, exception fiimo du cort.- at
de l'or. Dans le meme sens, toutes les taxes a lexportation ant etc enlevees. Dans le cadre du
CAS 1, Ic Gouveomment voulait dlininer 90%a environ de toutes les restrictions quantativCs
avant la fin dc lann6e  1992, les derniroes restrictions devant tre levies avant la.    de 1993.
SeuJs cinq produits (les armes et I'dq           riitaire. les explosifs, les DrodiuitS
pharmaccutiques, los plantes toxiques et Carrains filets de piche) ;eraient assuier's iA ure
autorisation speciale pour des questions ie securitc, do sante et d'en-  .
42.   La simplificaton des derni6res restrictions quaatitatives a 6te dans un premier trpips
retardee, maais une rcrorme exhaustive du tarif douanier a. etc mise en oeuvre en janvier 1993.
on meme  romps que demarraient los reforrnes regionales. Ccla a abouti A un nombre reduit de
taux pour [es droits de douane at unc rcduction des fourchettes. abaissant ainsi le tauLx moyes
de protection effective sur la base duquel de nombrcux producteurs inemicaces conduisaient
leurs actvit6s.   La desir dc protiegr ces groupes avait entraine une proliifration
d'exoneraEions; probk6mes aggraves par les difficult6s pour le Gouvemement a mencr  ea
oeuvre d'importanes mesures d'accompagnemenc cornme la Taxe Degressive de P.otecion
(TDP) et Les ristournes sur les droits de douanc pour Les produits export6s. C-s mr-esures
iitroduites qu'a la fin dc lIanee 1993 sur les importaEions de 22 produtis. nc so jUifiaienrt
plus apres la devaluation do janvier 1994, et ont etc. depuis, progressivemcnt abolics. Le
taux, fixe au depart & 30 % de la valcur C.A.F, a ete ramenc i 10 % au debut de 1995 ot scra
aboli au prcr iorjan:vier 1996.
43.   Libdralisation des prix Au debut du programme drajustement, 44 roupes de produits
irnportds etaient assujeis a des marges b6ncficiaires, cc chiffre devant e'tre gaduellement
raUncnt a 36, a la fia de 1991, at a 5 en 1992. Les restrictions quantitatives dcvaient tre
levees simultan6snent Les prix des prodits locaux devaicntt re lib&rs. a L'exception du ziz.
du sucr et c d la farine de fromcnt en mars 1991. La liberalisaiion de ces prx devraat sC
poursuivre danm le cadre du Premier credit d'ajusterent du secteur agricole.
44.   Le Gouvcrncnent avait egaloaont lintontox de simplifier de mamre significauve IC
regime de prix et de taxes pour les produits pMfliers. Un calondzier ditaill6 a &t prepare
aV= pmjet STWAS
ACHCAS.DOC



48
pour la revisiOn des mzcanismes d'6tablisscmcnt des prix petroliers mais des divergences sont
appars quant au systeme quz devait evcnruellenment Are mis en place. Uac premi&?c
proposition 1aborle par l'admrnistiation burklinabc au dbut de 1993 n'avait pas re;u l aval de
la Banquez Mondiale. Au cours dc la mission de supervisiocl de juillet 1993, un rapport r&visi
reco4lmandant unc refoime partielle du syst6me de conunercialisadon et d'.eablissement des
prix pour los produits petroliers a   6 drudi6 et distzr  avec les representants de la
SONABDI-Y, de la CGP et du Minis*e du commerce. Le systtmc de prix a finalemeat 6
considorablement simplifie et rmdu plus transparent; il comportait une seule taxe ad valorem
et ldcliminalZion de la COP dans Ic processus de percepuon des taxes sur les produits ptroliers
importes. Lc nouveau systeme a etc promulguc au debut de 1994. A la fin de cette mnime
am6e, un systimc de prix souple pour les produits p6troliers a t6 introduit. avec un
m6caaisme de revision dos prix tous les quatre mois.
45.   Le Gouvernement a egalement entrepris d'erjdier at de reviser Ic rile des diffireM
organismes iatervez'anr dans les m6canismes de suabilisation des prix. Ainsi, en 1994, le r6la
de Ia Caisse Gdnezale do pequon (COP) a     limir ri importation et a la vente de riz en
gros. Dans le cadre du Crddit i 1'ajustement du secceur agicole, la Caisse de stabilisatioa des
prix des produits agricoles (CSPPA) devait etre liquidee, cc qui ne est en cours, mais elle
n'intcrvicnt plus sur le marci et a tansfder toutes les respoasabilitds qui lui restaicnt dans le
secreur dc l'exportarion au secteur prive.
4.6-   Dans Le cadrc du CAS I, le Gouvemement a egalcaent propose d'ctudier le role de
I.office natioal des cercalcs (OFNACER). Celui-ci a dte lquids en juin 1994 a la suite de la
liberalsaion des pnix et du com,me,c de' caerales. Una nouvelle structure a etO crsee: la
Soci6td Nationale de Gestion des Stocks de S6curitd (SONAGESS). dont la seul activrit6 sa
de gerer Ic stock nanor.al de s6cufirA.
47.  2R4Jorme du cadrc rdgelemenlaire el jurid quo. La refonre du cadre reglemnenzaire er
juridique dans lequet ;e scteur ppnve scrait appeld A fonctionaer a ltavenir consUttuait l'une des
pierres ang'Jaires du proramme d'ajusrement. Les pricipaux secturs qui devaient &tre
abordes dans le cadre du CAS I etaient: i) la revision du code des investissemonts; ii) La
constitution d'un cornurf de revision des lois disposant de pouvoirs statutaires afin de reviser,
mcrtrc a jour, modifier et consolider les textes juridiques dans le but de les publier danw le
Journal Officiel er iii) une revision du code du travail dans lc but de r6duire les rigidites du
marchc du travail at de simplifier Its proc6du.res d!e=bauch et de licenciemrent.
48.   Codre des irnvesfissements. Les lacunes de I'ancien code des investissements, dont la
dernierc r&vsioa remonte a 1984, avaient mrnc a l'6tablissement de plusieurs missions avant
mcme la mise en placc du CAS 1. Une mission de pr6paration de l'IDA et une mission
conjointe FIAS/AMGI. ont abouti a un accord avec le Gouvernernent sur les rnvisiou a
apporter au Code des invesLisscmcnts. La r6vsion est tiulement inrtervenmu  au cours d'unc
mission de supervision en novembre 1991. Le nouveau codc entr6 en vigueur en juin 1992.
coaformiment auc objectifs de depart, offre ddsormais aux investisseurs des rnesures
incitauves pIus neimes et transparentes.
49.   Cod*e commercial. Avant le debut du programme d'ajustrment, il fdexistait pas de
recucil de droit com=rcial au Burkina Faso.  oans   cadr  d' uc initiaive plus globale de
consolidaton des lois at texrcs Iegislaifs existas, t comma condition d'entr6e en vigueur du
PAA, le Covernernent avalt crec en 1992 la Commission penanente naionaeIC de
codification (Decra No 92/149/MU), qui comprend. entr autes, us sous-comnulssLoQ de
droit commercial et de reforme judiciaire. En octobre 1993, lc Burkina Faso a SigDC le traie
portant creation de rOrganisaton pour lhbamonisaion du droit des affaires e  Afiquc
(OHADA), dont robjet principal cst de promouvoir ilbrmonisauon du droit commercial an
VUng pMGe SrTPAS
ACHCAS.C



49
6laboraflt et enl adoptant des lois uaiformis6es. Daas cc but, la Commission Nationale de
Codification a amorcc ufl examea des projets de lois rtgissant les activitds cormrnerciales sous
les auspices du Sccrctariu G06nral de l'OHADA.  Sclon les termes du trait6, les lois
uniformis4ies xc POuvent entrer ea vigueur qu!une fois examinees et adoptees par Ic Conseil
des Miniscrcs dc I'OHADA eE publiceS dans le Journal Officiel de cette orgaUsa ion  Si Ics
lois nfont pas encore etc adoprtes par le Burkina Faso, des progres impormats ont ad rdaJises
dans I'acnwJlisation des lois cormer jales. Cc processus dharmonisation regionale du droit
commercial est vivcme= appuye par la Banque et des ressources ont f6c utDlisees dans le
cadrc du volet juridique du P;AA pour appuyer ces changements.
50.   Code du ravail  L'ancien code du tavail prcsentait deux elments prabldmatiques:
d'abord. le monopole sur l'cmbauche d6tenu par V'Offce national por l'emploi (ONPE) at
deuxxiemrent, les restciorics sur les contats de Eamvail a durde ddLerminde. La lev6e de ces
deux obstacles Ctant Juge ssenicllc pour lassouplissement du marcli du travail, raccord de
cr'dit prevoyait corrme condition de liberation de la dcwxemc Manche I6dlmination du
monopole de l'ONPE et Iedinination de toute  estriction sur la dur.e et lc nombre de
prorogations des contats de tavail a durde detrinien. Lo processus do riforme du code du
cravail, coTmece a. la fin de 1990, prevoyait des consulitaons avec six organisations
syndicaies. POur faciliter les negociations, toujours difficiles, le BIT a fourmi son assistnce.
Ua consensus avaiL ete trouve pour un nouveau Code du Travail qui a &h adop t par le
parlement en 1992. La Banque avait cependant jugde certaincs de ses dioons comzn
conlrares  la lertre de I'accord de crxdit du CAS J. La mission de supervision de juillet 1993
s'est concentree sur les questions non encore reglees daas le code ct a engage les discussions
sur certaires axnbigutis du texte et l'interpretation a donner aux textes relatifs aux conuats de
tavall i durec d6r-nmnin.  A l1'poque, lc Gouvernement craignait la r6ouvrture de
discussions au Parlement, un compromis a 6te trouve. Les d6ets d'application de la Loi oat
etc pnis, lervant en g,de partie Los ambigtdt6s et proposant une interpretaion qui clarifie le
ce.xte de loi daDs un esprit conforme au CAS I.
iv) Valo0riSation deg resiources hurnaines et a1ll6rnent de la p&U==jr darts le cadfre chi
pfogr-nmrnc d'austement.
31.   Un 4lnient a Part entiore dans le suivi de l'impact du programme d'ajustement itait la
mise en oeuvre de 1'enqueto prioritaire. Les donnces recucillies devaient pormetre le sLUivi et
I'cvaluation des condiEions do vie des populations au cours de la periode d'ajustement Certe
caquete a -te conrue avant le programme d'ajustement et devait commenc=r :n 1991. Si cotte
enquece etair prevue dians tous les Document-cadres depuis le dobut du programme
d'ajus'rment. cUle n'a pu :tre r6alisee qu'en 1994 et ses resultars n'ont pu atre disponibles qu'en
1995. Comme cc fut le cas dans plusieurs pays de la region, les difficu[lts a preparcr ct. mener
cc renre d'cnqudtcs avaient ete sous estimees. De plus des complications ont surg par la suite
lorsqu'il a faUu coordonner le financernent des differents donarcurs (PNtJD. Union
europeenne, B3anque afticaine de doveloppement at IDA avec un don de la Norvegc). Ce qui
explique en grande pame ces retards.
D.   PRINCIPAUtX   FACTEURS   AYANT   EU   UNE   INCIDENCE  SUR  LE
PROGRAINOIE
52.    Transition poliriqu. Lors de la pr6paradion du projet, il etait doji previsible que la
situation poiitique ailait cba-ngr, et les probl6mes que cela nisquaiE de poser avuent bien edt
anticip4s au moment de la conception de I'opcrazon. L'impact precis nWta# pas conau, mais
avant 'entr6e en viguctr, tout semblaic indiqucr que les rcards saisc mini  Copendarr,
avant projt STP?/FAS
ACHCAS.ODOC



J. :AN >   01;c
50
duranft la premirc mission de supervision, ffctu6 a I'epoque des e}.ections prdsidenticUes, il
uatit que ce ne serait pas IC cas. 1 6tair maafestc que les syndicats. notamznent, etaiont
opposcs aux restructuraEions d'cntrprises, aux compressbonS d'effectifs, a la suppressioa de
cert=cS indemznits accord6es aux fonctionnaires et a la misc en p lace d'uz systeme de
promotions sans augmentatons de salaire, aisi qu'a la rtduction (au nombre de bourses
d'crudcs; toutes mesures ayazt pour objet de rdduire les tramsfims budgdtairos couranls. C'cst
pourquoi. apres les prerni&res refonmes cngagees en 1991, Ic prograznme d'ajustement avait
marque la pas praquement ju-que ves a fin de 1993.
53.    Cadre! Wterne- MIebre de la zone du Franc CFA. le Burkina ctait cextrement
sensible a l'cvolution de la conjonorure 6conomique dans Les pays voisms d'Afrique
fancophone, dont le plus important est la Cate d'Ivoire. Toure la zone du Franc CFA a connu
un lent mais nean=noins prononce d6clin dc scs performances oconomiques. La croissance
negative du PT3 de la C6to divoirc, depuis 1985 , a eu un effet ndatif sus les transferts des 3
illions do Burkinab6s vivan dans cc pays.
i4.   La ddvauaion La d&Pluaion de janvier 1994 a cu une incidence fivorable en co qui
conc:rne le proarme d'ajuszemc  et les perturbanons previsibcs dans la mise cn oeuvre de
ccrtaines mesures (libiralisation des prix) nront eto que de courn duze. Les avantages d'un
rcajustement de parint  taierLt apparus bien avant la d6valuation. Depus la dkcion de janvier
1994, los efforts de riforme se sont intensifoes do maniere notable, appuy6s par le CARE.
F.    PERENNITZ DU PROGRAMME
54 bis Le processus d!ajustement a, pour de nombreuses r6alisaiions, un caracre indversiblc.
C'%st le cas notaimmen= des restuncrations et privatisadoins qui, a moins d'6nroeme
cxraordinaires peu probabies. na pouzriont are rernises en cause- D'autrs progrts par conue
restent fagiles et riecessitont des actions de consolidation. C'est le cas pat exemple des
reformes reaiis6es pour L'arnclioration des recettes budg6taires, l'exicution ot le suivi des
depenses, la geston de la derte at !'liminaaion des arricres...
54 rcr La consolidation dlu processus d'ajustemenE sera assuree en priorite par les
comPortcmcnts nouveaux des foactionraires, a. tous les niveaux de responsabilite, dans la
misc en oeuvre des politiques du Gouvernemenr. Lo progamzne d'ajustemont vise la rigueur
dans la gestion et la recherchc permanente de l'amdioration du ronctionnement des
instituLions, actions qui doivent resrer fondamentalement immuables. Des .nesures nouvelles
sont aussi niiessaire pour consolider les progres, notonrnont dans Iacpui au develoPpement
du secteur prive, le d6veIoppcmnt de I'intonn6diadion financi&re, la progmmmaon budgetaire
et la gesrion des projes publiquos.
F.    PERFORMNLANCE DE LA BANQUE
55    Les interventions de la Banque ont &t6 gencralement duzt grand apport pour la partie
burkinabe, cn particulier pour cc qui conceme Les secteurs de la sante et de l'dducation.
Quciques points d7applicaaon  du  programme  ant fait r'objet de  controverSCtS   t
d'iaterpr6tations divergentes. Bien que non fondamentales. ces divergences ont neanmoins
fortnmeon pesture le derouLement normal du programme en raison des rctards qu'ils ont
occasioner dans les dScaiss:nts des appuis financiers, de la Banque en premier lieu et d'un
cnrainas nombre d'aes bailcurs de fonds qui conditionnaicut leur appui k: ddcaissements
des crzddirs de la Banque.
2vUL pfIojt S"PMAS
ACHCAS.DOC



51
55    Pendant la pr6paraiion et ensuite l'execution de diverses composantes du progranme,
rop peu de temps avait 6t6 consacro aux discussions sur i) les grands objectif; des reformes.
ii) Les diffcrentes options possibles, ct iii) les modalites specifiques. en particulier dmns k
domraine de la reforme des entreprises publiques et du secteur bancaire. Les d6caissements des
tranches de crcdits de la Banque ont ete rctard6s du fait de divergences d'opinions sur la
responsabilitr du Gouvemement dans la mise en place des reformes. Le Gouvemement
pcrcevait le crddit comnc 1',nonciation des objcctifs econoniques qu'il s'Rtait engage a
poursuivre. alors que la Banque Mondiale suivait une logique plus legaliste de V'excurion du
prog=i1me, sans ECnir compte des eventuellcs implications rigatives sur son deroulement.
G.    FlrURES OPERATIONS
55.   Les prochaines opdrations seront determinantes pour la pdrenaitd du pro-aunme
d'ajustement. Si les performances rnacro-dconomiques de base sont swvies dans le cadr du
programme mis en oeuvTe au titre de La FASR du Fonds, les resultas daas les diff&mts
seetcurs dependront de la rnani6re dont seront men6s a bien tans les projets en cours que Ids
f.uturs projets. I1 est clair que Ic Burkina n'est pas encore au bout de son pgramme de
rxformes. Tel est notammrnt le cas pour I'agriculurc, secteur dans lequel, en liaison avec Ic
prcmier credit d'ajusternent sectoriel, se poursuivent des rLformes qui seront approfondics au
cours d'une secoade operation ax6e sur lI'limination des restrictions encore existans danm les
dom.aines du riz, du sucre et du croton. dc mraaire i stimuler une for-e reponse du c6te de
I'off=.
56.    Plus important. le secteur prive doit encore devenir lc maxeur de la croissce
economique. Un projet pour le secteur minier. actuellemnent programme pour lexercicc en
cours, constituera unc Dremiere frape a cet egard. 11 faudrait encore amnliorer ['ensemble de
mesures incitatives destinees a d6velopper l'investissement dans le scteur minier afin do
perrncare un net decoilement de la production micre du Burkina. En nn le doveloppemenr
du secreur privc er la poursuite de 1'amelioration de la gestion des finances publiques de
maniere a pouvoir iout;:ir cornrme iH convient les activites du sect=r privc sont aussi au
centro des preoccupaior-s.  Les reformes concemant ces domaines seront au cocur de la
prochainc operation daju.srement.
H.    PRINCIP.A% X ENNSEIGNENMENTS TIRES
j 7.    Conception. Carte operation n'a as etc facile a mettm au point car il s'ag3issait de la
premiere operation d'ajusrcment pour le Curkira; de plus, le pays etair juste sous le coup d'un
changement de rxgime, quLi a occupc le devant de la scene politique pendant plusicurs acees.
Toutefois, vu Ia necessirh de s'araquer a des reformes dans plusicurs domaines a la t-ois. il
ecaiE inevimable que la premiee operation d'ajusternnt ait une portec gendrale. Elle a ete
suivie par plusieurs operations dAjustement sectoriel et par d'auues cr6dits. C=cr demarche a
etd efficace dans plusicurs secteurs, en particulier 1'6ducation et les transports. Mais sur
d'autres plans, pnvansanion et reformes budgetaires par exemple, les progr6s ont etei
cxtrrmement lents, e= dpit de projers de suivi. Une prochaine operation d'ajustement devrait
ctr txrcs bien ciblee eri memrc raccent sur las domaines dans lesquels des reformes cruciales
restent a accomplir.
58. Meniaiiri des agents de lafoncrion publique. Les reformes qui ont pu dtre mises en
oeuvre par simple d:ret ont ga ment cte des rdussites  Les pzix ont te libes, leas
barneres commerciales sUppnmeCs at les monopoles publics eUminhs. Mais la reormes dos
VW PMjdl sWPAS
ACHCAS-DOC



52
lesquclles les fonctionnaires, a qui il appartenait de meme en oeuvre les changements au
niveau de la place de V'Etat, devaient jouer un rdle determinant, ont progresse nettement plus
lents. La mentalitd des agents de la fonction publique a'a pas evolue au m=c rytbme que la
politique du Gouvement, cc qui a rendu prariquement impossible I'application de crtaines
mesures. en ma3cre notamment de puivatisation et de refonne du secteur bancaire. Dans les
futures optiralions, les conditions de mise en oeuvre devront ctre dfiinies d 'faron tz*s concise
avant le lancement des rdformes. Le soul moyen pour que les agences dcxdcution et les
fonctionnaires fassent avancer les riformes envisagdes au licu de les ralentir est qu'ils en
comprenncnt pleinement la finaLirh. C'est plourquoi. les efforts en mant&r d'explicaion des
programmes devroat etre poursuivis et rcaforcds.
59.   Ordre da sucession des reformes. L'ordre de succession des difFRrenres mesures est
dctcrmit pour la reussit d'un programme de reformes. Cast un point auquel il a, maintr
egards, ete insufflsamment accorde atetion dans le cadre du progamme considoTi:
* Le fait d'avoir med doe front privacisaion  at reorganisaion des entrepnses
publiques et du secteur bancaire a ete co=e-productdf Un programme do.
privaisation bioa conru n'aurait di intervorenir qu'apris que la resnucturation du
secteur bancaire, devenu ainsi   mAem dtappuyer l'exdcution du programme do
pnvadsation
* La rdorientaEion des dopenses publiques alors memo quo des changements itaient
introduits daas les procedures budgtaires a considdrablement complique la
supervision du programme. Las chang=moats dans Ia nome=clature bud.0taire
nont jamais dte effectucs de won satisfaisante. alors merne qu'1 etait absolu0met
essentiel de surveiller les allocations de rwsources at les dopenses cour ua certain
nombre d'autres objectifs. 11 aurait aLlu soit -nett la nouvelle nomenclamre en
place rapidemont, avec .ous les conw6les nec :^.aires afin d'dvi-:. :z ct: ;> -.r
dans son application, soit garder laaciean  jusquki ce quo les 4 cnses puciques
soient compILcitmcnr restructurees.
avin pESij STP/PAS
ACJcAS.C



53
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
[CR 2281-BURl
BURKINA FASO
APPENDIX C - COFINANCIER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR
The comments below on the ICR were received from the Netherlands Government. Comments were invited
but not received from the Norwegian Government.
The Netherlands' comments on the ICR
In general the description of the progress in the execution of the SAL (Cr. 2281 -BUR) and the
analysis of the constraints (ICR) are quite realistic, although a few points require reconsideration or more
elaboration. We will also give some comments on the suggestions made about future operations and the
proposed poverty oriented strategy.
i.    We wonder if the adjustment program succeeded really in restoring 'significant, but fragile
economic growth'. If it was not for 1991, when abundant rainfall caused a GDP-growth of almost 10
percent, growth performance was not that positive. If one takes the whole period 1990-1995, annual real
GDP growth averaged 2.3 percent. Given the annual population growth in Burkina Faso, this outcome
represents a decline in real GDP per capita. A further analysis of the different growth sectors reveals, that
none of the sectors show signs of a start of prolonged sustainable growth. If one takes into account that
rainfall, in view of the climatic conditions, was rather favorable during the SAL period, the results of the
adjustment program in the ICR - even of the recent ERC - seem to be judged a little bit too optimistically.
2.    The Bank's lending quadrupled in the SAL period. Also other multilateral institutions raised their
lending programs to Burkina Faso. In the ICR an analysis of the development of the debt situation and its
consequences for future economic growth is seriously lacking. In view of the rather meager results of the
private sector reform program, including the banking sector, the overall prospects of economic growth
based on a strong market oriented private sector and supported by a well functioning banking sector and an
incentive regulatory and institutional environment (on which the effects of the reforms are still
questionable) are not really promising. Although Burkina Faso shows a positive and dedicated attitude at
all levels of government towards restructuring its economy, it has a limited potential for sustainable
economic growth. In addition, given the government' s still limited implementation capacity, we wonder if
Bank lending to Burkina Faso is not too generous and would like to see at least some critical reflection
about conditions for further lending in order to avoid indebtedness. Increased lending should at least keep
pace with successful implementation of the reforms and economic growth.  The ICR in its
recommendations is not very explicit on this issue.
3.    We fully agree with the conclusion of the ICR that future adjustment operations should focus on
the two critical reform areas, where progress moved very slowly: Budgetary reforms, and privatization
which are to be considered as critical prerequisites for sustainable economic growth and poverty
alleviation. In this respect we do not fully agree with the conclusion that 'the initial task of moving from a
socialist economy to a market-oriented one is largely completed" The ERC concluded that the above-
mentioned reforms are now to be (re)-started.



54
4.    We agree that the coherence and sequence in the reform  program  was lost during its
implementation and that some areas of reform lagged substantially behind, especially the two mentioned
above. However, the Netherlands do not see how one could remedy this in giving the next coherent strategy
a new focus: 'fights poverty', as proposed in the ICR. In our opinion a successful reform and growth
strategy should be aimed at equity and poverty reduction, but this aim does not automatically imply that
coherence will not be lost. Further more that sequencing of reforms should be studied well and be more
realistic, in order not to overload the client.
5.    Concerning future operations, we are somewhat disappointed, that the Bank, while speaking of
strengthening the private sector, puts the emphasis on the mining sector. We may recall that 10 years ago
mining was not considered economically feasible. At this moment economic performance of Burkina Faso
is still dominated by the performance of the rainfed agriculture, which is well demonstrated during a year of
abundant rainfall (in 1991 agricultural growth was 20%). Subsequently a strategy focused on poverty
reduction, food security and rainfed agriculture and cattle raising are also the main causes of environmental
degradation and from the point of view of natural resource management, fixed capital assets and
sustainable growth, more attention should be paid to the development of a strong private, market-oriented
agriculture, supported by agricultural services, like credit, inputs and marketing organization. Although we
do not deny that the development of the mining sector can contribute to the future economic growth of
Burkina Faso, to the diversification of its economy and an increase of government revenues and hence
should not be neglected, we are not convinced that it can form the basis of long term sustainable growth
and substantial poverty alleviation.






IMAGING;
Report No:         15264
Type: ICP'



