Dacwnm  of
The World Bank
FOR OMfCLAL USE ONLY
R(-pkttt Nu. F- 55C2, PUR                                           Repor  . P-5562-BUR
INGIaIHAM. J..1 X214653 ,   AFPfiP5-
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 60 MILLION
TO
BURKINA FASO
.FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(SAL I)
JUNE 4, 1991
This documeut has a resticted distibutIo  Md =ay be u   by redpleut ouly in the perfonma    of
tIeir ofci duties l coutns may not othewse be discsed withou  World B&o* autoiatdon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                              CFAF 260
CFAF 1 million           -           US$3,846
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of
Messrs. Joseph Ingram (Principal Country officer and Mission Leader),
Cherif Azi, (Sr. Financial Analyst), Boubacar Traore, Salomon Samen,
Gerard Boulch (Economists), and Rajen Soopramanien (Lawyer), who visited
Burkina Faso in March 1991. Messrs. Sergio Ricca from ILO, Hank Roppen
(Bank Consultant), and Franz Schwarzbeck from the German Government also
provided support to the operation.  Further assistance was provided by
Messrs. Justin Barro (Economist at the Resident Mission), and three local
Consultants, Pierre Minongo, Harouna Sawadogo and Fatti Traore. Ms. Olga
Jonas (Country Economist) was primarily responsible for the drafting of
the President's Report. Mr. Charles Humphreys was the Lead Advisor and
Mr. Rashid Faruqee reviewed the program for the Chief Economiat's Office.
Mrs. Katherine Marshall is the Department Director, Mr. Frangois Laporte,
the Department Lead Economist and Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib, the managing
Division Chief. Secretarial support was provided by Mrs. Rathna Chiniah.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
ABBReVA5ION  AND AM=X"
AfDB        s    African Development Bank
APDF        I    African Project Development Facility
BCZAO             Banque  Centrale  des  Etats  de  V'Afrique  de
1'Ouest
B1CIA             Banque   Internationale   pour   le   Commeorce,
lIndustrie et l'Agriculture
BIP         s    Banque Integr6e de Projets
CARwO             Caisse   Autonome   dos   Retraites   pour   loe
Fonctionnaires
CBC               Conseil Burkinaba des Chargeurs
CC          s    Chamber of Commerce
CEAO        3    Communaute Economique dos Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest
CEDRES            National Research and Development Center
CSPPA             Caisse de Stabilisation des prix des produits
agricoles
CNS8              National Social Security Fund
CPAR        s    Country Procurement Assessment Report
EC          s    European Community
FIAS              Foreign Invegtment Advisory Service
IFC               International Finance Corporation
INSD              Institut  National  do  Statistiques   et  de
Demographie
ILO         t     International Labour Organization
MIGA              Multilateral Investment Guarantee Service
OFNACER           Office National des Cereales
ONAC              Office National du Commerce Exterieur
ONPE              Office National pour la promotion de l'Emploi
PIP               Public Investment Program
SNTB              Soci6t6 Nationals de Transit Burkinabb
SIBP              Service Informatique et de Suivi des Projets
SITC              Standard International lkrade Codes
SPA               Special Program of Assistance
SOZABAY           Soci6t6 Nationals Burkinabe des Hydrocarbures
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UNIDO       s    United    Nations    Industrial   Development
Organization
IMF               International Monetary Fund
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
SAL         s    Structural Adjustment Loan
UMOA        s    Union Non6taire Ouest Africaine
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the por. vrmancl
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aut



STRUCTURAL Aviv NNTCRZDXT (BALIt
Table of Contents
Credit and Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I
I.   COUNXRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRKTEGY . . . . . 1
A.   Background, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      .      1
S.   Central Development Issues and
Government Economic Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
C.   Growth Prospects and Economic Outlook . . . . . . . . . . 9
D.   Bank Group's Assistance Strategy  a . . . . . . . . . . . 11
XI.  8AL I PROGRAM 1991-1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
A.   Macroeconomic Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B.   Public Resource Management  . . . . . ..* . . e * * * .  * 17
C.   Incentives for Private Sector Development . . . . . . . . 22
D.   Human Resource Devolopment and Poverty Alleviation in
Adjustment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
III. Til PROPOSED CREDIT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
A.   Credit History  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
B.   Financing and Management of the Program . . . . . . . . . 33
C.   Monitorable Ae      tions ..................... . 35
D.   Benefits and Risks  ................... 38
XV.  RE00I4EM ATION                                                 39
TetTable
Table ls   Key Social Xndicatore ..  ....   .....         ......   2
Table 2:   Selected Economic Indicators, 1986-90 . ..... . . . . 3
Table 3s   Selected Public Finance and External Sector Xndicators  * 5
Table 4:   External Financing Require_ents .9.9.9.9.9.9...... . 10
Table 5s   Composition of IDA Commitments, FY85-90 . . . . . . .. .  11
Table 6:   The Structure of Current Expenditure  . * . . . . . .. . 19
Table 7s    Current Expenditure Requir emnts in Priority Sectors  . . 21
AnMnx
Annex X    Economic Indicators. ...........                         40
Annex II   Govern3ent's Letter of Development Policies . . . . .. . 43
Annex IXI  Poiicy lMtrix .7.. .  ...  .. ....... 71
Annex IV   Supplementary Credit Data Sheet 9.99.9...9.              76
Annex V    Status of Bank Group Operations ........... .  77
Annex VI   Classification of Public Enterprises                     78
X^t        I8RD 20660



aTRUTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT f SL i
Cred '. and Proaran Summary
sorrower         SBurkina Faso
Amounts        - SDR 60 million (US$80 million equivalent)
g2financing:      European Community Loms IV ECU 25 million  (US$30
million); African Development BSank UA 15 million (US$20
million); Canada CN$15 million (US$13 million), France
FF 100 million (USS17 million); Germany DM 20 million
(US$12 million).
Termgt            Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years
Proarsm
Descriottont      The proposed SAL supports Burkina's overall adjustment
program as outlined in the PFP for 1991-93 and focuses
on implementation in two key areass public resource
management and private sector incentives. The private
sector incentives component addresses public enterprise
sector restructuring, banking sector restructuring, and
trade and regulatory ref%. cm. The public sector resource
management component includes restructuring recurrent
budget   expenditure   to   support   human  resource
development, preparation of a civil service management
reform, and improved investment programming. Specific
actions include elimination of quantitative restrictions
on imports, simplification of import procedures, price
liberalization, reform of the legal and regulatory
framework for both the public and private enterprise
sectors,  reduction  in  labor  market  regulations,
reduction in the relative size of the wage bill in the
government budget, increased budget allocations for
expenditure on health, education and routine road
maintenance, and strengthening budgetary control and
public investment programming.
Benefit
and Risket        The proposed SAL is expected to contribute to the
restoration of internal and external financial and
economic equilibria through its impact on the Government
budget and external trade. The proposed measures to
improve economic incentives are also expected to have a
positive impact on economic growth and employment
creation in the private sector. The major risks are a
potential attempt by vested interests who benefit from
existing policies to defer or dilute implementation of
adjustment polici a and delayed supply response due to
a recurrence of *irought conditions. These risks are
minimized by the Government'  demonstratod strong
resolve to implement reforms, and the heavy front
loading of the program; the design of the program which
focusses on a few major areas of reform, simplification
of administrative .equirements, and the provision of
technical assistance in key areas;and the introduction
of increased flexibility in the economy to respond to
external shocks, including drought, and accumulation of
sufficient external reserves to maintain the level of
imports during periods of poor weather.



(ii)
XstJ.mated
Ri.aur_mnats    US$80 million equivalent of credit would be released in
three tranches, with US$40 million constituting the
first tranche and the remainder divlded equally betwee
the second and third tranches. Tho first trancho would
be released upon effectivenessa the second tranche would
be released after completion of a specific list of core
actions and a satisfactory perforzance review to be held
within 1.2 months of effectiveness  the third tranche
would be released after completion of core actions and
a second performance review to be held within 12 months
of release of the second tranch. US$750,000 equivalent
would reimburse PPF651-BUR used for preparation of the
credit. Disburoement of the entire credit is expected
to be completed within 24 months of certifying credit
effectlveness.
Mans             IBRD 20660
There is no separate staff appraisal report.



mERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND -_CX 5DtDATION OF THE PRESIDENW
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO BURKINA PASO
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 60.0 million (US$80 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to Burkina Faso to help
support the Government's structural adjustment program.   The African
Development Bank (AfDB), the European Community (EC), France, Canada and
Germany have expressed interest in providing cofinancing or parallel
financing. The UNDP, the IMP, and the Government of France are providing
support for important institutional measures and technical assistance for
implementation of Burkinas adjustment program.
I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP'S ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.    Backaround
2.          Economic Structure. Burkina Faso is a landlocked country with
a population of about 9 million, which is 90 percent rural. It lies in a
transition zone between the Sudano-Guinean region and the Sahel, and its
climate is characterized by wide rainfall variations. Soil, water, and
biomass resources are limited and fragile.   Resource degradation is
accelerating because of overexploitation and population pressure. With a
gross domestic product per capita of US$320 in 1990, Burkina ranks among
the world's poorest countries. Basic social services are undeveloped, and
life expectancy at birth (48 years) and primary school enrollment (31
percent) remain among the lowest in sub-Saharan Africa (Table 1). There
has been substantial emigration to neighboring coastal countries,
particularly Ghana and COte dl'voire, mainly by the youngest strata of the
active population.
3.          The economy is dominated by agriculture and the public sector.
Agriculture and stock raising contribute about 30 percent to GDP and are
the main source of income and employment. Cultivation of traditional food
crops (millet and sorghum) is by far the most important farming activity
while cotton is the major export crop. Services are the largest sector,
accounting for an estimated 42 percent of GDP vhile manufacturing remains
undeveloped and contributes only about 14 percent of GDP.   Informal
activities dominate in the services sector (about two-thirds of value
added) and are also significant in the secondary sector (about 40 percent
of value added). The modern sector is essentially limited to government
services and to the parastatal sector which accounts for practically the
whole of modern industry.  Since 1988, the country has been gradually
emerging from a period characterized by policies inspired by marxist and
maoist revolutionary ideology, including central planning, tight controls
on the private sector, and extensive direct state involvement in
productive activities.



2
Table 1. Koy Social Indicators
Sub
SalisaT~rbcAst
1980     1989           1989
PODUI!tion (million)                     8.6       8.8          481.6
% rban                               8        12            38
Growth Rate (P...)                 2.0       8.8           8.1
FertiIlity
7rude Birth Rate (por 10U           48        47            47
Total Fort. Rate                   6.6       7.2           6.6
(8irths/Woman)
Mortality
Crude Death Rate (per 1000)         21        18            16
Infant Mortality (per 1000)        167       1s3           107
Life Expectancy at Birth (yre)      43        48            53
Medical Care
Chirdrln Immunized (DPT) (U)         2        86            48
Education
Primary Enrollment Ratio (X)        1S        31            67
Pupil/Teacher Ratio (primary)     64:1      S7:1          41:1
Secondary Enrollment Ratio (U)       8         6            29
4.          Despite some success with exports of off-season vegetables to
Europe and fruit to neighboring countries, Burkina's exports are dominated
by three primary commodities--livestock (to the coastal countries), cotton
and, since 1985, gold.  The economy has depended on inflows of foreign
assistance and of remittances from an estimated 3 million Burkinabb abroad
to finance most investment and in some years a part of consumption
expenditure. With a limited potential for near-term diversification, the
economy remains highly vulnerable to climatic vagaries and adverse
movements  in  international  comnodity  prices.        Lacking  the  rich
agricultural potential or extensive mineral resources of other countries
in Sub-Saharan Africa, Burkina's growth prospects are modest.
5.          Past Economic Growth.   Burkina's economic performance is
determined by its narrow resource base, variable climate, a low level of
social and economic development, and a legacy of inappropriate policies.
Despite these handicaps, growth in the 1980s was sufficient to slightly
raise per capita incomes and consumption, as real GDP grew by 3.7 percent
a year between 1982 and 1990 and population growth was estimated at 3.3
percent a year.
6.          Until 1988, the economy enjoyed relatively good growtht. Much
of the growth was, however, derived from two unsustainable sourcess (i)
an expansion of public consumption and investment spending; and (ii) a
high agricultural growth (6.1 percent per annum in 1982-88) due to good
weather and to bringing of new land, recently freed of onchocerciasis,
under cultivation. In contrast to a rapid growth of construction, fueled
in part by high public investment spending, and an expansion of trarsport
and other services driven largely by the good performance of agriculture,
manufacturing stagnated during the 1980s even though highly protected by
import controls. The reasons were several. Structural factors such as
poor technical skills, high energy and transport costs, high labor costs,



3
and rigid price and trade controls hurt competitiveness.   The policy
framework was complex and sometimes contradictory while special tax
exemptions and protective measures deterred efficiency gains. In 1989 and
1990, real GDP growth slowed to -0.4 and 1.3 percent, respectively,
largely because agricultural output fell with a recurrence of poor
rainfall and because the public spending spree could not be sustained.
Table 2. Selected Economic Indicators, 1986-9U
1086   1087  1988  1989  1990
National Income and Prices
CDP at constant 1985 pric-es (X p.O.)        9.8    1.2   0.1  -0.4   1.8
Agriculture, Ilvestock
and forestry (X p.a.)                     10.8   -4.2  13.8  -2.9  -3.4
Cross domestic Investment (U of GDP)        22.9   20.0  22.2  22.8  19.9
Gross domestic savings (S of CDP)            8.8    4.1   8.2   8.0   6.2
CDP deflator (U p.a.)                        0.0    S.t   8.0   1.2   3.0
Consumer price index (X p.a.)                1.9    1.8   1.9   2.0   8.0
7.          Savings and Investment.    Burkina is dependent on foreign
assistance to finance most public investment and some consumption.  In
1986-90, net disbursements of official capital grants and loans averaged
US$126 million annually or 5 percent of GDP. An additional US$100 million
annually on average was contributed by donors for technical assistance and
food aid, and by non-Governmental organizations (NGOs). Thanks to four
years of strong growth after the 1983-84 drought, domestic savings
performance up until 1988 was good, and the domestic savings rate reached
a respectable 8.2 percent of GDP in 1988.   This record could not be
sustained, however, with the economic slowdown in 1989 and 1990, and
domestic savings fell sharply, to 5.2 percent of GDP, in 1990. Workers'
remittances from abroad (averaging 6 percent of GDP in 1986-90) have made
a significant contribution to national savings.
8.          In the late 1980s, investment averaged 22 percent of GDP,
largely because of large public investment.   Much of the investment,
however, went to major new infrastructure projects with low, or even
negative, economic returns such as a railway extension, a large dam, new
public office buildings, and a clinker crushing plant.  Public housing
projects were financed by forced lending from domestic banks, contributing
to an increasingly precarious situation of the banking system. As for the
private sector, it has invested primarily in housing, office buildings and
informal sector activities. The legal and regulatory framework was not
conducive to private investment in formal sector activities; moreover,
private investors were crowded out by the privileged and, in some cases,
formally monopolistic, positions of public sector firms in virtually all
subsectors. The overall efficiency of investment has been relatively low,
as reflected in an ICOR of 7.3 in 1985-90.



4
9.          Fiscal and Monetary Perfopmance.   The overall government
deficit (excluding grants) averaged 12 percent of GDP in 1986-90 1/
(Table 3).  The difficult financial situation was mainly due to three
factors:   (i) a large part of budgetary resources claimed by the wage
bill; (ii) a weak revenue performance; and (iii) substantial parafiscal
resources, especially those levied on imports of petroleum products, in
special accounts of autonomous public agencies.
10.         The rapid growth in the government wage bill, espec!ally for
the military, has squeezed expenditures for supplies, operations and
maintenance, local contributions to foreign-financed investment projects,
and debt service. Tax revenues have been hindered by a narrow tax base,
comprising primarily the modern sector whose growth performance has been
disappointing.   Moreover, a large volume of exemptions, especially on
import duties, and weakness in the tax structure and collection process
have reduced the Government's ability to mobilize fiscal resources.
11.         Since  government  borrowing  from  the  central  bank  is
constrained by the rules of the West African Monetary Union (UMOA) of
which Burkina is a member, a part of the deficit was financed through an
accumulation of arrears. These began to accumulate especially rapidly in
1987 and reached an estimated CFAF 83.4 billion by the end of 1990,
equivalent to one year's fiscal revenue.   Arrears on external debt
service, CFAF 49.4 billion of the total, compromised relations with donors
while arrears on internal payments constrained business activit'.
12.         At the same time, significant parafiscal resources have not
been available to finance public expenditure because they have gone into
the special accounts of autonomous price stabilization funds and service
agencies. Although some of these funds were used to provide capital for
several public enterprise investments (e.g., a clinker grinding plant) and
to build large headquarters buildings for public agencies, most have
remained on deposit with domestic banks. As a result, the Government has
been a substantial net creditor to the banking sector. In 1986-88, there
was also a marked increase in net foreign assets due to good growth of
exports and a relative stagnation of imports. This contributed to a rapid
growth of the money supply, mostly in time and savings deposits. In 1989,
the trends in credit were reversed as lending to the private sector
exoanded, the net creditor position of the Government shrunk, and the
overall balance of payments registered a large deficit for the first time
since 1982.
13.         The financial health of banks, which are all partly or wholly
Government-owned, deteriorated throughout the period, with a marked
worsening in the last two years. In 1990, nonperforming loans (net of
bank provisions) increased by CFAF 8 billion, to CFAF 22 billion,
equivalent to 15 percent of the banks' loan portfcio. Audits conducted
by the central bank showed that three commercial banks urgently needed
1/    The GDP series used for the ratios of fiscal performance excludes
the value added of the informal sector because it is hard to
measure.   In the late 1980s, the formal sector accounted for an
estimated 72 percent of GDP.



S
restructuring while the postal checking system and the national savings
bank continued to experience liquidity problems.
Table 8. Selected public finance and
external sector lndlcators, 19-90
1986   1967   19S8  1M!O   i
PubiIc finance IndIcetors (% of tormal GDPI
Govermnent Revenue                          1.4   14.6   18.2   11.9   14.6
Current Expenditure                          18.6   18.2   18.4   12.6   14.6
Capital Expenditure                          12.4   16.1   11.8    90.    7.9
Consolidated budget deficit (a)              12.0   14.6   12.5    9.0    7.6
Government Wage Bill
(X of Current Expenditure)                 64.0   58.0  08.5   06.2   60.7
External Sector
Export volumes (1985 U 1a1)                 103.9  138.1  127.0  128.0  161.8
-- cotton                            176.0  237.6  167.2  188.9  240.6
- go I                               171.1  247.7  261.1  164.8  214.4
-- livestock                          78.6   79.7   01.1  104.0  1W.2
Total exports of soods and NFS (USS m)      188.6  264.7  204.2  254.6  8U1.4
Total workers' remittances (US$ m)          191.6  178.4  174.8  147.8  108.9
Total imports of goods and NFS (US$ a)      694.7  680.2  695.1  710.2  U6.4
Merchandise Terms of trade
(1986=100) (US8)                          97.6   98.2  108.t   9B.6   08.6
Real effective exchange rate
(1985 Z l6)                              96.2   94.1   04.6   90.4   9098
Balance of payment lndicators (X of formal GOP)
Current Account Balance (a)                 -15.8  -18.4  -12.8  -17.8  -14.6
Overall Balance                               1.9    0.5    1.0  -7.1   -1.6
External Debt (LT+ST+IMF)
Total debt disburse and outstanding
(USSm)(DRS)                              669.5  86.90  677.6  757.2  794.0
Total debt service paid
(US$ million) (b)                         67.8   61.8   54.4  821.9   51.9
Debt service paid/exports of goods
and sves. (X) (b)                         88.6   22.0   16.2  120.2   14.2
(a) Excluding grants, commitment basis.
(b) Includes, in 1989, for official debt to France, debt relief of US118.6 million and
capitalization of canceled debt of US8186.7 million.
14.          Starting in 1989, the fiscal situation has begun to improve,
initially due to a reduction in public investment expenditure as several
large projects neared completion. More sustained improvement took place
in 1990 in response to measures taken to reverse the adverse development
in both current expenditures and revenues in the three preceding years.
The government achieved a 15 percent growth in revenues thanks to reduced
import duty exemptions, strengthened tax collection, and revision of
standard values on which import duties are assessed.   The last measure
channelled to the budget a larger portion of the substantial parafiscal
resources arising from the difference between import and domestic prices
of petroleum products. Initial steps were also taken to contain the wage
bill by limiting recruitment and freezing both salaries and the financial
impact of promotions.
15.          Given Burkina's membership in the West African Monetary Union
and the fixed exchange rate parity between the CPA franc and the French



6
franc, anti inflationary measures are a necessary part of policies aimed
at holding the price increases in Burkina below those of its competitors.
Throughout the 1980s, the authorities have been successful in containing
inflation and improving Burkir a's international competitiv2ness.  With
domestic price inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, lower
than that of its recorded trading partners, Burkina Paso's real effective
(trade-weighted) exchange rate depreciated 25 percent between 1980 and
1990 2!.   Further  progress  is necessary,  however,  to  improve  the
competitiveness of the economy.
16.         Balance of Payments.   In the 1980s, balance of payments
developments have been driven largely by four main factors: (i) revenuer
from exports of labor to neighboring countries, which were almost as
important as the revenues from exports of all goods; (ii) world market
prices for cotton and gold; (iii) domestic production performance of
cotton and gold; and (iv) imports linked to the public investment program.
Between 1986 and 1988, the current account deficit decreased steadily,
from 15.3 percent to 12.8 percent of GDP because of strong export
performance and a slight improvement in the terms of trade. With grants
and net official capital inflows averaging US$263 million annually, the
overall balance of payments continued to record surpluses of about 1
percent of GDP each year. 3/ These trends were, however, dramatically
reversed in 1989 when, for technical reasons, the volume of gold (a mine
collapse) and cotton (problems with ginning capacity) exports decreased
markedly.    Workers'  remittances  also  declined because  of  economic
difficulties in the coastal countries.   At the same time,  imports,
especially of capital goods for the public investment program, grew
rapidly.  The current account deficit tl as widened to an unprecedented
.17.3 percent of GDP.
17.         The deterioration, however, proved to be temporary, largely
thanks to a sharp recovery in 1990 of gold and cotton export volumes and
a deceleration of imports linked to the public investment program. The
terms of trade improved and were not affected by the Gulf crisis in the
latter half of the year since Burkina Paso had placed most of its orders
for petroleum produL-s at prices prevailing before August 1990. Although
the current account deficit thus narrowed to 14.5 percent of GDP, the
improvement was not enough to prevent a further small loss of official
reserves which declined to 4.5 months of imports by the end of 1990.
B.    Central Development Issues and Government Economic Policies
18.         Burkina confronts three formidable constraints on growth and
development in the long-term. Most important, slowing Donulation trowth
is critical to securing sustainable growth because severe damage to the
natural resource base is occurring, especially on the Mossi plateau which
2/    Measured as an index, the real effective exchange rate was 100 in
1980, 85 in 1985, 80 in 1988, and 75 in 1990.
3/    A part of the overall balance of payments deficit has in effect been
"financed" by a continuous accumulation of arrears on official
external debt service due to the fiscal resource constraint.



7
has the highest population density in the Sahel, and because fiscal
resources would be already strained by maintaining the primary school
enrollment ratio at its present low level. The Government must therefore
build on its commitment to the promotion of family planning services and
to an increased role for women. Second, Burkina's development prospects
ultimately depend on labor productivity which can rise only with a
concerted effort to develop the country's human resource potential. In
the medium-term, progress in human resource development is a most serious
challenge because of limited financial resources.   In education, the
Government must seek additional resources and lower the proportion of
costs paid by the budget in order to raise primary school enrollment
ratios. Part of the approach at both primary and secondary levels needs
to be promotion of private education.   In health,  a more efficient
delivery system, more wide-spread implementation of cost-recovery, and
increased spending on maternal and child health are the critical needs.
Third, there is a need to improve the management of natural resources.
Population grewth, the single most important cause of soil, biomass, and
water resource degradation, will decline in the long-term only, even if
early gains are made in reducing fertility rates. Therefore, agricultural
research must be sustained so as to develop less environmentally damaging
farming methods.   For their dissemination to farmers,  the extension
services  need  to  be  strengthened.       Above  all,  however,  clear
responsibilities must be assigned and enforced for natural resource
management at the village level.
19.         Since a change in Government in August 1983, the authorities
pursued policies inspired by central planning, marxism, and maoism. The
private sector was discouraged by confiscatory measures and political
interference in the management of enterprises.   Domestic and external
trade were increasingly controlled. In 1984, the Government launched a
program of development which aimed to mobilize rural and urban people to
construct public infrastructure.   This initiative was followed by an
ambitious first five-year plan (1986-90) whichi included a number of large
economically unviable projects. The interventionist policies contributed
to lagging fiscal revenues which led the Government to implement, in 1985
a-d 1986, austerity budgets which included a 12 percent cut in civil
servants' nominal wages. In the social sectors, the Government sought to
improve the education and health status of the population by aggressive
vaccination and literacy campaigns; these, however, could not be sustained
because of a lack of resources  and institutional weaknesses.   The
authorities also actively promoted environmental conservation and the role
of women in development.
Policy Framework Paper. 1991-93
20.         Following a change in Government in late 1987, the authorities
became increasingly conscious of the limits of their dirigiste approach to
development. The dialogue on economic management issues with the Bank
began during an economic mission in 1988.   As the economic situation
worsened dramatically in 1989, the Government accelerated the preparation
of reforms and drafted a Policy Framework Paper (PFP). The authorities
have assumed much of the initiative and responsibility for the formulation
of the reform program. It was the subject of public debate at meetings in
mid-1990, to which all political and economic groups were invited.



8
Because of the extensive consensus-building which the authorities chose to
undertake, negotiations on the PFP were concluded only in December 1990.
21.         The overriding objectives of the PFP are to raise the standard
of living of the population through broad-based employment and income
growth and to lay the foundation for sustainable economic and social
development. The PFP includes action programs to alleviate the critical
constraints  on  long-term  developments   slowing  population  growth,
development of human resources, and improving natural resource management.
22.         In the medium-term, the Government is aiming for economic
growth of about 4 percent per annum while strengthening public finances
and the balance of payments, in particular by promoting public and private
savings. While there is some room for improved revenue performance, in
the medium-term, Burkina will remain a poor country whose fiscal resources
will not be adequate to provide essential public services such as primary
education, basic health, and maintenance of public infrastructure. An
effort is therefore being made to increase public sector efficiency
through a restructuring of public expenditures. The program outlined in
the PFP recognizes that irrespective of progress made in alleviating the
key long-term constraints on sustainable growth and in improving public
sector efficiency, implementation of policies to foster private initiative
and investment will be the key determinant of growth performance in the
medium-term.
23.         To achieve the objectives set out in its PFP, the Government
has adopted an appropriate fiscal policy stance, primarily by aiming to
contain public consumption. At the same time, it will increase revenues
through improved collection performance and expanded tax coverage. The
Government will settle all of its external arrears in 1991, largely
through debt-forgiveness and rescheduling on Toronto terms, and will
resolve its internal arrears by 1993. Given Burkina Faso's exchange rate
arrangement, containing domestic inflation will be essential for improved
international competitiveness and better growth prospects in the long
term. To limit its debt burden, the Government is pursuing a prudent
external debt management policys it will contract or guarantee only
concessional loans, with the exception of short-term trade credits and
loans arising from Paris Club rescheduling.
24.         Already  in  1990,  the  Government made  good progress  on
budgetary issues.   The consolidated fiscal deficit (excluding grants)
shrank to 7.6 percent of GDP in 1990, and the Government has adopted
strong measures to effect a further decline, to 5.6 percent of GDP, in
1991. In the 1991 budget, military expenditures have been substantially
reduced, personnel costs are smaller in nominal terms than in 1990,
despite a substantial increase in the number of primary school teachers,
and student stipends have been cut.  The Government has also moved to
improve the productivity of public investments and to encourage private
sector development. Several public enterprises have been liquidated or
sold, and a plan to accomplish substantial divestiture has been prepared.
The banking system is being restructured.   Price controls and trade
regulations are being liberalized. These and other structural reforms
constitute the basis for the present SAL I and are described in greater
detail in Part II below.



9
25.         PolitiCal Reforms.   In parallel to its economic adjustment
program, the Government has launched political reforms, aimed at
democratizing the government process. Radical groups inspired by marxism
and maoism, which previously dominated both political discourse and
economic policy-making, were further marginalized during the public debate
on the PFP. The new constitution adopted by referendum in early June,
provides for political pluralism and representative government. In 1991,
political reforms will continue with presidential elections in November,
and multi-party legislative elections in December.
C.    Growth Prospects and Economic Outlook
26.         The formidable constraints to development are not amenable to
rapid change in a medium-term perspectives improved soil, water, and
biomass resource management can affect agricultural output only gradually;
reduction of population growth can only occur in the longer term if the
Government's population policy is effectively implemented; only gradual
progress can be made in increasing human capital, and hence labor
productivity of the working population. Moreover, the economy is highly
vulnerable to drought and to economic conditions in C6te d'Ivoire and
Ghana because of the importance of workers' remittances.
27.         Nevertheless, several factors favor growth in the medium terms
a hard-working and disciplined population; a domestic market approaching
10 million people;  unexploited mineral deposits (gold, zinc, copper);
mmaufacturing opportunities (e.g., construction materials, garments, agro-
processing) for local and regional markets; and room for expansion in both
traditional and market-oriented agriculture (cotton, oil seeds, fruits,
and vegetables), and in services such as repair facilities and tourism.
In the longer-term, in addition to a continuing exploitation of these
opportunities, faster growth would derive from an increasingly sound basis
because the Government is a leader in the Sahel in addressing
environmental degradation, the role of women in development, and
population growth.
28.         Economic projections of the most likely development scenario
in 1991-1999 -- involving normal weather; more efficient investment, in
part due to a rapid improvement in the private business climate; a
continuous growth of exports (including, after 1993, exploitation of zinc
deposits); a slow recovery in workers' remittances; a relative decrease in
public consumption; a containment of imports through gradual import-
substitution; debt relief; and an increase in external capital flows in
response to the implementation of the adjustment program -- show GDP
growth of about 4 percent per annum for the rest of the decade, slightly
above  the  population  growth  rate  estimated  at  3.3  percent.    The
achievement of this target depends on the capacity of the economy to
generate resources for rehabilitation and new investment. The growth of
industry and services and, to a lesser extent, of agriculture, is based on
a revival of private sector activity in response to improved incentives.
29.         The current account deficit would decrease to about 10 percent
of GDP by the end of the decade. After taking account of disbursements on
existing and expected project-related commitments, the external financing
needs average US$96 million per annum during the period of the first PFP



10
(1991-93). About US$10 million annually would be financed by Burkina's
access to the IMF SAF, and a further US$43 million annually through IDA
support for the s4justment program, of which the present SAL would be the
first operation.   If external  resources are mobilized to cover the
residual financing gap during the 1991-93 period, the net per capita
disbursements to Burkina of Official Development Assistance (ODA)
projected for 1993 (US$44) would still be less, in nominal terms, than the
net per capita disbursements of ODA to other Sahelian countries in 1987
(US$59). A growth rate in external aid flows of about 6.8 percent per
annum in US dollar nominal terms, which would be adequate to cover
Burkina's financing needs in 1994-99, is therefore realistic if the
Government continues to maintain an appropriate macroeconomic framework
and implement structural policy reforms.
…-----                --       ----------------------------------…
Table 4. External Financing Requirements, 198-983 (a)
(MS milII on)
…----------        ----------------…----
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992  1998
Reautrements
curr nt *ccount deficit (b)        259   327   832   392   419   453
LT Debt amortization                27   293    82    82    8s    a6
Arrears reduction                    0     0      0    190      0      a
Changes In gross reserves (.uincr.)  8o    49   -17    17    21    16
Financing
sraints                            202   416   203   243   269   282
Capital grants                   128   125    78   108   120   138
Other official grante             74   101   126   137   146   144
Dakar Initiative                   0    189      0      0     0      0
Loan disburseoments                 89    94   104   124   144   141
of which IDA SAL/SECALs            0      0      0    40    52    37
Foreign dir. Invest. (ncl. Perkoa)   2      2     2      1     18    22
Arrears accumulation (c)            1S    69    20       0      0      0
Debt relief                          0     17     0    188    16    16
ilF purchase (SAF)                   0     0      a      a     13      9
Capital n.e.t. (ncl. err.ao iss.)   15   -26    19    -6   -16    -8
Residual financing goa               0      a     0     77    40    43
average exch rste (CFAF/USS)     297.8  819.0  274.6  280.5  258.0  251.5
(a)   Policy Frameork Paper, 1991-98.
(b)   Excluding official transfers.
(c)   In 1989 includes tho assumption by tho Burkina Government of the arrears of RAN (CFAF
22.9 bIllIon).
30.          If, contrary to the assumptions underlying these projections,
the implementation of the reform agenda slowed down and, as a result,
external financing from donors were to remain at present levels, GDP
growth would be no higher than about 3 percent per annum (implying falling
per capita incomes) even with favorable rainfall and terms of trade. More
important, failure to follow the adjustment program would imply that
little progress could be made in expanding primary education and basic
health services, improving agricultural productivity growth, and
stimulating private investment.  The removal of key constraints on long-
term economic and social development would thus become an even more
distant prospect.



11
D.    Bank Groun's Assistance Strat2av
31.         Past Bank Group Assistance.  As of December 31, 1990, IDA's
commitments to Burkina amounted to US$405.5 million for 34 credits, of
which some US$262.4 million had been disbursed,  and US$43.7 million
canceled. Of these credits, 17 were in agriculture, 6 in transportation,
3 in education, 3 in telecommunications, 2 in urban development, and one
each in industry, mining, and health. Of the seven operations still under
disbursement, 3 are in agriculture, and the others are in health, primary
education, urban development, and mining exploration. IFC has made one
investment of US$450,000 for the manufacture of plastic products. Burkina
is also one of the major beneficiaries of the regional Onchocerciasis
Control Programme, financed by IDA and other donors.
Table 5.: Composition of IDA Commitments, FY86-90
FYsS-9s
USSU     PERCENT
Agriculture                       9.         tB.O
Infrastructure                   22.2        27.0
Human resources (a)               0.0         0.0
Adjustment lending                0.0         0.0
TOTAL COMMITMENTS          62.1       109.0
=0====~~--=-0 -__________ ------ ----- ---------- ------ ----- ----- ----- -----
(a) An education and a health project, totalling USL48.2 million, were advanced from FY86
and approved by the Board In May and June 1985.
32.         During the 1983-88 period, relations between Burkina and the
Bank were strained due to disagreement on public investment program
priorities; no credits were approved in 1986 and 1987. Since taking power
in late 1987, the Government has sought increased help from the donor
community. In response, since 1988 IDA has approved three credits: for
agricultural research, agricultural services, and urban development. In
addition to the proposed SAL, two projects were presented to the Board in
the spring of 1991: environmental management, and Education IV, with a
third, the public works and employment project, also being presented in
June 1991.
33.         Country Stratesv and Priorities.  The Bank's goal is to enable
Burkina  to  achieve  sustainable  economic  growth with  equity.    The
priorities for Bank assistance aret (i) to support critical actions needed
to alleviate long-term constraints on economic and social development;
(ii) to help the Government create a policy and regulatory environment
supportive of the private sector; and (iii) to help the Government manage
public resources more effectively. In the near term, the Bank will assist
the Government in reversing the deterioration in public finance while
improving public resource management and ensuring adequate support for
development.
34.         Proposed Lendina Program.  The pace of IDA lending depends on
the Government's ability to implement the macroeconomic and sectoral
reforms set out in the PFP for 1991-93. These reforms are a precondition
to a more rapid growth and sustained development in the future.   The
lending program has therefore been structured to encourage timely action
on the Government's part. To allow for maximum flexibility, for possible



12
sectoral differences in the pace of reforms and for more sharply focused
operations, the Bank will use a combination of adjustment lending (SAL8
and SECALs) and investment operations, especially in human resource
development and preservation of the natural environment.
35.         As currently programmed, the lending amount is tentatively
US$430 million for 12 operations for the period FY91-95, or about US$9.5
per capita per year. Although this would represent a marked increase over
the previous five years (Table 5), it would still be less than the
tentative annual per capita FY91-95 lending amounts for other Sahelian
countries in adjustment, such as Senegal (US$11.4) or Mali (US$11.2).
Since about 54 percent of the lending commitments would be for adjustment
operations, a key determinant of the level of IDA lending will be
adjustment performance. A deterioration in performance would lead to a
postponement or, ultimately, cancellation of the later tranches of the
present SAL and of the preparation of the second SAL and/or the SECALs.
A shift to a non-adjustment scenario would be triggered by a failure to
agree with the Bank and the IMF on annual updates of the macroeconomic
program, particularly fiscal and monetary policies. Such agreement would
normally be reflected in an updated PFP. Targets for the current fiscal
deficit, the structure of current expenditure, the public investment
program, and credit'growth constitute key criteria for agreement on a PFP.
36.         Both investment and adjustment operations will focus on key
policy issues affecting poverty alleviation, namely future growth,
investment strategy, and institutional strengthening. Sectoral operations
are designed to promote a supply response to changes in the macroeconomic
framework and to improve the utilization of resources devoted to the
respective sectors, particularly the large amounts of non-IDA external
financing. The overall IDA allocation and its division between investment
and adjustment lending will be reviewed periodically in light of Burkina's
record in the implementation of the reform program, the progress realized
in reducing external and internal imbalances, and the availability and
composition of external financing.
37.         Human Resource  Development and PoDulation  Growth.   The
restructuring of public expenditures pursued by the proposed SAL I is
critical to the attainment of full benefits of proposed IDA lending for
the social sectors.  The main objectives of the Education IV project
(FY91) to promote an increase of primary school enrollment, especially of
girls, improve quality at both primary and secondary levels, and encourage
the development of private education. A subsequent project, would support
the transformation of educational content so that graduates are better
equipped to respond to the needs of the economy, and particularly of the
private sector. A Po2ulationIHealth project (FY93) will improve sector
management and support an extension of population and family planning
activities begun under the first project.
38.         Natural Resource Management.   The Environmental Management
project (PY91) aims to reverse the serious degradation of Burkina' s
natural resource base, make rural communities responsible for managing
natural resources, and realign government services so as to provide
incentives for such local management. The project is the culmination of
a five-year preparation and testing effort. An Agricultural Services II



13
project (PY95) envisages strong support for efforts under the on-going
Agriculture Research and Agricultural Services I projects, to restore the
environment and to raise agricultural productivity and rural incomes.
39.         Productive Sectors.  IDA assistance to the productive sectors
will focus on the establishment of a policy environment for the private
sector through policy reforms, institutional development, and focussed and
efficient development of social and physical infrastructure. The proposed
SAL I supports fiscal adjustment, improved private sector incentives
through internal liberalization and banking sector restruccuring, as
described in Part II of the present report. The authorities realize the
Importance of an appropriate sequencing of reforms. A second phase of
macroeconomic reforms would be supported by SAL II, tentatively scheduled
for FY94, including, in particular, a reform of the import tariff
structure in harmony with a fiscal reform.
40.         In  agriculture,  urgently  needed policy  reforms will  be
addressed in the Aariculture SECAL (FY92), mainly in the cotton, cereals,
livestock, and horticulture subsectors, including pricing, restructuring
of price stabilization mechanisms, reforms of marketing regulation and
boards, and improvements in public sector efficiency. A Private Sector
development project (FY93) proposes to increase the supply response to the
improved macroeconomic framework under the adjustment program. It would
provide institutional and financial support for investors, develop means
to mobilize local and expatriate resources, support privatization, and in
improving the institutional framework and technical support for the
private sector, seek to pay particular attention to the special needs of
women and the informal sector. An Energy project (FY95) would build on
the reforms in petroleum product pricing supported by previous adjustment
operations and would, in particular, help achieve a least-cost expansion
of electricity-generation capacity, including a regional interconnection.
The project would also tackle household energy use rationalization.
41.         Public Resource Manaaement.   Key issues in this area are
addressed under the proposed SAL I, as described in Part II below. To
deepen the SAL initiatives in public finance management, an Institutional
Development Proiect (FY92) would promote quality in the civil service
through   improvement   in   information,   manpower   management,   and
administrative processes, budgetary, and public accounting reforms.  A
better utilization of resources in the transport sector, which accounts
for a large share of public investments, is the main objective of the
Transport SECAL (FY92) which will assist the Government in developing a
coherent policy framework for the transport sector, in meeting urgent
rehabilitation requirements of the road and rail networks, and in
restructuring the local railway, bus and airline companies.  A Public
Works and Emnloyment project (FY91) will support a program of small urban
infrastructure upgrading and rehabilitation works by small private
contractors.
42.         ProMrams  nf Special  Emnhasis.    Concern with  Women  in
Develooment, the Environment, and Food SecuritX is fully reflected in the
IDA assistance strategy for Burkina. The needs of women and children are
the main focus of the Population/Health project while the Education IV
project will support increased primary school enrollment among girls.



14
Burkiua's laws explicitly recognize the social and economic equality of
women, and the Government's policy is to increase their role in
development.    The  environmental  effects  of  poor  natural  resource
management are considered a major threat to the long-term development of
Burkina, and are addressed in a significant fashion in the Environment
Management project as well as in IDA support for agricultural research and
extension services.   Food security is addressed primarily through the
overall poverty focus of the IDA assistance program and through the
emphasis of IDA lending on operations in the agriculture sector.
43.         Economic and Sector Work.  The program of ESW is designed to
provide an analytical foundation for IDA strategy.   Consequently, the
priorities are: (i) improving our knowledge of the macroeconomic framework
and, especially, issues in public sector management; (ii) human resource
development; and (iii) private sector development. To help the Government
better manage fiscal resources, a Public Expenditure Review will be
carried out, with an initial focus on the social and environment sectors.
Increased understanding of the functioning of the private sector is being
pursued by the recently started study of the informal sector. A special
project preparation facility together with assistance from the Japanese
Government, is supporting a pilot introduction of Quality Control Circles
(QCC) in several companies, to assess whecher this method can contribute
lo raising the competitiveness of Burkinabe industries.
44.         International Finance Corporation.  Due to the weak economic
situation and unattractive business environment of the country, there has
been relatively little private investment and consequently little activity
by IFC in the past.  The one IFC investment was in SOVOLPLAS, a producer
of polypropylene, which closed in 1988.   There is potential for IFC
involvement in the mining sector, mainly in the development of zinc
deposits which will require a very large investment of the kind that IFC
has helped syndicate in other countries in the region.  IFC also supports
the development of small- and medium-size enterprises through the recently
established African Proiect Development Facility (APDF) which is planning
to set up an office in Ouagadougou, and the African Enterprise Fund. The
Foreisn Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), IFC and MIGA have already been
closely involved in the preparation of reforms in the regulatory framework
for the private sector; this involvement will continue throughout the SAL
I period.    In the  future,  IFC will  also explore ways  to assist
privatization through advisory services and help in the search for
partners and financing.
45.         Coordination with the IMF.  other donors and NGOs.   The
proposed SAL would provide partial support for the initial phase of
Burkina Faso's policy reform program, with the balance to be financed by
the IMP and a number of other donors. The program has been prepared in
close collaboration with IMF staff, including three joint missions during
1990, and with assistance from other donors, including France, the EEC,
the ILO, the UNDP, the African Development Bank, and Germany. Burkina's
first annual SAP arrangement for SDR 6.3 million (20 percent of quota) was
approved by the IMf Board on March 13, 1991. Bank staff will continue to
work closely with the IMP in providing policy recommendations to maintain
macroeconomic stability and to ensure the consistency of the overall
program.



15
46.         Significant budgetary support has been provided by France in
1990 on the basis of then-completed negotiations of the PFP.  In 1991,
additional support will be provided by Prance, the European Community, the
AEDB, Germany, and Canada.   The preparation of the Transport SECAL,
involved extensive donor coordination, culminating in a sectoral donors
meeting in October 1990 when agreement was reached on expenditure
priorities in the sector.  The Agriculture SECAL is being prepared in
close consultation with key donors in the sector, notably France and the
EEC.   Burkina's adjustment efforts were the main subject of a macro-
economic roundtable in May 1991.  In April 1991, Burkina was declared
eligible for financing from the Special Program of Assistance for low-
income debt-distressed countries in Sub-Saharan Africa (SPA).
47.         Given the importance of foreign aid in Burkina and the large
number of interested donors, aid coordination will continue to be a high
priority. A key objective of IDA efforts will be to agree with other
donors on the content of the policy reform programs and on the priorities
for the public investment program. A number of vehicles will be used to
assure close coordination: a continuation of informal donor meetings in
the context of specific operations, such as those organized annually in
the health sector, the recent macro roundtable, and the transport sector
donors' meeting; bi-annual SPA meetings for sharing information on
adjustment performance and cofinancing requirements; continued close
contact by the Resident Mission and visiting Bank miss.ons with local
donor representatives; and periodic meetings between the Government's SAL
monitoring commission and local donor representatives.
Summary Assessment
48.         The Burkinabe authorities have, during the past 18 months,
demonstrated a strong commitment to substantially reform their economic
policies in both the public and private sector.   This commitment has
already been reflected in an improvement in Burkina's public finances.
Although the country's economic and financial situation is fragile, and
would deteriorate with recurring drought, the implementation of reforms
included in the proposed SAL I would enable the economy to provide modest
per capita income growth in the 19909 and would lay the basis for
sustained future development and poverty alleviation. The criterion for
judging progress will be the consistency of policies with the objectives
set out in the PFP.
II. SAL I PROGRAM 1991-93
49.         The Gcvernment of Burkina Faso has already initiated a number
of important adjustment measures in 1990, includings freezing the wage
bill; implementing a rolling public investment program, which involved
dropping several large and dubious investments; reducing the scholarships
for higher education; privatizing, restructuring or liquidating a number
of public enterprises; identifying receivers for the restructuring of the
banks to be privatized; eliminating the price controls on all locally
produced goods; eliminating the controls and taxes on exported goods; and
reducing the controls over imported goods, including complete elimination
of the local purchase requirement. Distortions and rigidities persist,



16
however. Private sector activity is discouraged by complex regulations.
Past public enterprise policies have induced important economic
inefficiency and contributed to difficulties of local banks. The public
sector is not able to provide essential public services and basic
infrastructure in support of economic growth.
50.         The adjustment package proposed under SAL I addresses these
problems.   First, SAL I would support increased efficiency of public
resource use through reforms in the budgetary process and in the
management of the civil service to contribute to an improved structure of
current expenditures, and through better programmoing and monitoring of
public  investment  expenditures.       Second,  it  would  promote  the
establishment of an enabling environment for the private sector through a
comprehensive set of banking sector reforms, the implementation of the
first phase of the Government's strategy for privatizing public
enterprises, a liberalization of pricing and external trade regulations,
and reforms of the legal and regulatory framework affecting investment,
commercial relations, and employment. The implementation of the measures
proposed under SAL I would increase the prospects for achieving a more
rapid and broadly based economic growth with equity and assure more rapid
progress in delivering basic public services, particularly to the poorer
parts of the population. While implementing the SAL I reform program, the
Government will monitor the change in social indicators of development
through the implementation and analysis of household surveys.
A.    Macroeconomic Framework
51.         The program of reforms to be supported by SAL I is an integral
part of the Government's overall adjustment program, as presented in the
medium-term Policy Framework Paper for 1991-93, reviewed by the Committee
of the Whole on March 5, 1991.   The set of structural measures which
comprise SAL I is key to the achievement of macroeconomic objectives.
Hence, the maintenance of the fiscal and monetary policy stance adopted in
the context of the PFP (see paras. 20-24) is a condition for release of
the second and third tranches of the proposed credit. The review of the
macroeconomic framework for second and third tranche release will examine
the consistency of fiscal and monetary policies and performance with the
objectives set out in the PFP.
52.         The Government aims to reduce the overall fiscal deficit from
7.6 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.9 percent of GDP in 1993. To attain this
objective, the Government plans to gradually increase revenues from 14.8
percent of GDP in 1990 to 15 percent of GDP in 1993. Current expenditures
will be contained, and as a proportion of GDP, will decline from 14.5
percent in 1990 to 12.9 percent in 1993. With respect to monetary policy,
the authorities intend to keep the growth of the broad money supply in
line with that of nominal GDP. This should contain domestic inflation, as
measured by the GDP deflator, to about 3.7 percent per annum in 1991-93,
despite some upward price pressure that may occur because of price
liberalization. The macroeconomic projections and the requisite policies
will be revised annually, in the context of the updating of the PFP, in
order to take account of the progress achieved in reducing imbalances and
the availability of financing.



17
S.    Public aesource Manamement
53.         Within  the  context  of  an  overall  improvement  in  the
Government's fiscal policy, under SAL I the Government aims to improve the
allocation of current expenditures in support of economic and social
development priorities, to strengthen the programming and implementation
of public investments, and to transform the public enterprise sector.
Public resource mobilization will be improved through strengthened tax
collection, expanded coverage, and budgetization of an increased portion
of parafiscal resources; these reforms will be implemented in close
consultation with the IMF.  This section deals with the management of
current expenditures, the need to focus on priority areas, and the need to
improve public investment programming and coordination between the
investment program and the recurrent budget. Because the Government's
approach to the public enterprise sector forms an integral part of its
program to create an enabling environment for private sector development,
public enterprise sector reforms are described in Part C below.
Management of Current Exuenditures
54.         Background.   The  lack of material inputs has  seriously
affected the provision of essential services, the functioning of
government administration, and the maintenance of public assets in
Burkina. Greater spending on materials and supplies, however, can only be
effected through less spending on personnel and transfers. Similarly,
increased spending on primary education and basic health can only be
achieved through less spending on non-development sectors such as the
military or functions made redundant by the structural adjustment program.
55.         The share of the wage bill in current expenditures grew from
54 percent in 1986 to 65 percent in 1989. Vhile the number of civil
servants, about 35,000, is relatively modest, the cost of the Burkinab&
civil service is relatively high: the average cost per civil servant is 14
times per capita GDP, compared with less than 10 times in C6te d'Ivoire
and much less in sub-Saharan African countries outside the CFA franc zone.
The level and growth of the wage bill are not sustainable, as they crowd
out expenditures on goods and services and threaten the equilibrium of
public finances. Moreover, the structure of the wage bill has become
increasingly skewed in favor of military personnel at the expense of basic
education and health. From 1985 through 1989 the defense ministry's share
of the wage bill grew from 33 to 38 percent, while the shares of the
ministry of primary education grew only from 21 to 22 percent and of
health from 10 to 11 percent.
56.         As set out in the PPP, the Government intends that the public
wage bill represent no more than 60 percent of current expenditures in
1993. At the same time, it would seek to ensure that: (i) the efficiency
of the central administration will be protected and enhanced; and (ii)
personnel expenditures will be redirected toward sectors that will support
the improvement of labor productivity overall, i.e., primary education and
health, or toward functions that will improve resource mobilization and
use. The Government does not believe it is politically feasible to reduce
nominal wages. Consequently, it will try to control the growth of the



18
wage bill primarily by limiting salary increments, and new hiring and
restructuring the civil service.
57.         Past Adiustment Efforts.    In 1990,  the Government held
personnel outlays at the 1989 level by suspending pay increases for
promotions and seniority,  and limiting recruitment.   In the area of
current transfers, the Government reduced budgeted expenditures on
scholarships for secondary and higher education by 10 percent.  In the
1991 budget, total personnel expenditures have been reduced by CFAF 2.4
billion, to CFAF 52.8 billion, despite increases in personnel spending for
primary education.   The principal measures  adopted to achieve this
adjustment were: cuts in outlays for the army (CFAF 1.7 billion, or 11
percent of the 1990 outlays), the susper.sion of merit increases, and the
introduction of several new stop-gap measures. These new measures, which
will yield additional savings of about CFAF 1.5 billion without affecting
the civil service structure and management, were: (i) early retirements
and replacement of retirees in the priority sectors with cheaper (younger)
civil servants; and (ii) elimination of a housing indemnity formerly paid
to a housing fund.
58.         In addition, the Government has begun to clarify the status of
temporaries who are not a statutory part of the civil service, with a view
to encouraging their departure and hence producing added savings.   To
improve wage bill management, the Government obtained limited assistance
from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to improve personnel
administration in the Ministry of Civil Service. In the last two years a
parallel effort by the Direction of the Budget in the Ministry of Finance
to set up a forward budgeting system for wage expenditures has had only
limited success and will need more resources and better interministerial
coordination to take effect.
59.         SAL-sunported Reform Proaram. Increased spending on materials
and supplies in the context of limited resources will mean the wage bill 4/
will decline from CFAF 57.2 billion, or 61 percent of current expenditures
in 1990, to CFAF 53.8 billion, or 59 percent, in 1993. While this target
may appear modest, it has to be achieved at a time when the Government
must accommodate additional wage bill increases because of its commitment
to raise staffing levels in priority areas and the additional recurrent
costs associated with the completion of investment projects. The payroll
measures are to be accompanied by a reduction in current transfers by a
further CFAF 1.5 billion by 1993, primarily by cutting back scholarships
and student subsidies.
41    As presented in Title II of the Government's budget.   Title !I
includes, however, some non-personnel expenditures. Moreover, some
personnel expenditures are included in other sections of the budget.
Thus, Title II expenditures in 1990 were CFAF 57.2 billion while
personnel expenditures were CFAF 55.2 billion. In anticipation of
the full application of the new budgetary nomenclature and public
accounting standards, projections for 1992-93 could only be prepared
in terms of the existing budgetary classification.



19
60.         While  the  Government  has  made  substantial  progress  in
reallocating expenditures in the 1991 budget, a detailed analysis during
the appraisal mission revealed that inadequate provisions have been made
for personnel in priority ministries.   The Government has therefore
decided to adopt a supplementary budget in June 1991. The main features
of the reallocation already achieved and of the corrections sought by the
mid-year supplementary budget are presented in Table 6.  The detailed
analysis of the 1991 budget also reinforced the need to implement an
improved budgetary nomenclature and to substantially strengthen the
monitoring of expenditures. During 1991, IDA will work closely with the
Government to reinforce the Government's capacity to formulate future
budgets and to monitor their implementation.
61.         The Government has decided to reduce the public wage bill.  It
will gradually reduce the number of government employees through reduced
hiring and attrition, and reallocate others to priority sectors.   The
Government has already begun to reduce personnel spending in the military,
and it will continue to do so as necessary to meet the aggregate wags bill
targets and free resources for primary education and health.   Because
there is not a personnel redundancy problem in the civil service as a
whole, only a limited departure program for personnel made redundant by
reforms may be prepared, if necessary. Savings resulting from the freeze
on salary increments since 1990 will be extended to 1993 and will be
permanently secured.   Finally,  the recruitment of new students into
schools of public administration, who are then automatically hired upon
graduation, was virtually stopped in 1990; the savings from this measure
will begin to be felt in 1992.
=________________________________________________________________________________________
Table 6.: The Structure of Current Expenditures
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__----------
---CfAF billIon---          -----Percent-----
199    1991   1991          1990  1991  1991
ReV1i;2                   RevT*jia
Personnel                55.2   52.8   53.5          Ol.,  57.7  50.5
of which Army          14.6   12.9   12.9          18.2  14.1  14.1
Primary Educ.   9.5    9.8   10.1           10.6  10.7  11.0
Health           8.4    6.0    6.S           7.1   6.6   7.0
Uaterials and supplies   5.7    6.1    6.8            6.8   6.6   6.9
of which Army           8.6    8.a    8.8           8.8   8.6   8.6
Services                 6.3    6.9    6.3            7.0   7.6   6.8
Transfers (a)           14.4   16.8   16.0           16.0  16.7  16.4
of which Scholarships   7.3    6.4    6.8           8.1   7.0   7.6
Interest                 8.5   10.6   10.6            9.4  11.6  11.5
Total Current Expenditure   90.0   91.5   91.6      109.0  109.0  100.0
(a) Excludes, In 1991, transfers to pubilc utilities compensating for elimination of
exemptions estimated at CFAF 6 b ilion.  Includes CFAF 1.7 billion for banking sector
restructuring and CFAF 0.7 billion for early retilrement.
62.         The long term objective of the Government will be to reduce
and control the growth rate of the wage bill, while improving the
efficiency of the central administration. The immediate objectives are to
gain an understanding of the financial impact of the rules and regulations
governing the civil service (career development, personnel compensation,



20
retirement system, relation between training and promotions) and to re-
assess priorities given to the different functions of the administration.
The initial steps to improve the manpower management system so as to make
it more responsive to financial targets will be implemented during the SAL
I period. In particular, the Government will: (i) set up an information
management system spanning the Civil Service Ministry and the Payroll
Directorate at the Ministry of Finance; (ii) set up a civil service file
based on a civil service census; (Uii) establish a forward budgeting
system; (iv) design and implement a civil service management system based
on positions defined within a managed administrative structure; and (v)
adapt the civil service training system to manpower needs.
Focus on Priority Sec' ors
63.         Background.  In the past, the Government has not established
clear sectoral priorities. The result has been serious underfunding of
primary education, basic health care, and the rehabilitation and
maintenance of basic infrastructure, especially in transport. Improvement
in the overall financial performance of the public sector depends in part
on strengthening resource mobilization. Additional resources to improve
tax administration and collection are essential to raising more revenue.
The shortage of funds has slowed progress toward increased primary school
enrollment and basic health services, induced inefficient operation of
basic government services, leading to a deterioration of public
infrastructure.    Some gaps have been filled by donor financing of
recurrent costs, under public investment program projects, but this was
not done in a coordinated way and estimates of the extent of such
financing are lacking.
64.         Past Adiustment Effort.  The Government only recently started
to define its expenditure priorities more clearly beginning in 1990 with
increased hiring of primary school teachers.
65.         SAL-suDported Reform Proaram.  The Government has identified
several priority areas for public resources, including the social sectors
(especially primary education and health), road maintenance, and the
revenue services. Primary education needs a substantial increase in its
budgetary allocation if the enrollment ratio is to reach 40 percent by
1996. Because of the rapid growth of the primary school age population,
achieving this target will require that the number of primary school
teachers increase from about 8000 in 1989 to 10,000 in 1993 and further to
13,000 in 1996.   While in the health sector the need for additional
personnel can be satisfied in part through a reallocation of staff,
improvement of the provision of health care services demands a growth in
budgetary outlays, in particular for essential drugs and equipment, of at
least 5 percent per year.
66.         In the transport sector, the Government will increase the
budget for road maintenance significantly to CMAF 3 billion a year. The
cost of the additional personnel needed by the revenue services for the
period 1991-93 has been estimated at CFAP 0.38 billion. A condition for
release of the second and third tranches would be that substantial
progress be made in 1991-93 toward meeting priority objectives for public
spending in accordance with targets agreed upon for the priority sectors.



21
T blo ?.. Current Expendltur R.quiri_ntr In Priorlty Sector
CFAF Million              Avg. Ann.
1990   1991    TWT.19  m i    si    Gw
Primson Education
Personnel                9624   9791   16691  la7  1186         6.1
Materials and Supplies    104    316    3881    161    G         79.4
Service9                  17    120    146    304   894          185.1
Tranef rs                 16e    155    161    260   21           9.6
Total Primary Education
Current Expenditure    9008  1084   10728  11496  12578         6.0
ooIth
Proonnel                 6364   6011   6451      40   6824        2.4
Materials and Supplies    937    90    1237    1836  1460        15.9
Services                  81    129    244    289   858          64.1
Transfor*                 468    448    688    688   688        1U.7
To*tl eaIth
Current Expenditures   7660   7677    8626   6958  938          6.9
Public Investment Protrarmtna and Coordination with the Current Budaet
67.         Backsround.  External aid finances over 90 percent of public
investment. As noted, investment spending includes a substantial element
of recurrent spending.   The choice and monitoring of investments, and
coordination of aid have been weak, despite the preparation of a first
five-year plan for 1986-90.   Investment programming has been over-
optimistic, and the implementation rate in 1990 was only 62 percent. A
key reason for the weakness in investment programming has been a lack of
timely and reliable information on project implementation due to
inadequate monitoring and control procedures. In the early 19806, despite
opposition from Burkina Paso's traditional donors, including IDA, the
Government, as noted, launched a number of large uneconomic investments.
Many other public investment projects have also failed to yield the
expected benefits.   One reason is that there are no procedures for
systematically assessing the operating and maintenance needs of investment
projects, so that projects tend to be underfunded once operational. This
has been particularly acute for primary health centers, in the lack of
materials for primary education, and in the neglect of road maintenance.
68.         Past Adiustment Effort.  In 1990, with Bank assistance, the
Government undertook a major review of its investment program. Project
selection criteria have been established at the microeconomic, sectoral,
and macroeconomic levels, and only projects with assured financing are to
be included in the public investment program (PIP). On this basis, the
Government reached agreement with the Bank on the 1990 and 1991 tranches
of the public investment program.   The IMF has provided assistance to
begin the integration of the public investment program into the
Government's budget, starting in 1991.   The Ministry of Planning has
initiated a study to estimate the operating and maintenance requirement
of projects which are expected to be completed in 1991-93, A second five-
year plan proposes sector development strategies and will serve as the



22
basis for elaborating a series of three-year rolling PIPs over the period
1991-95.
69.         SAL-suDnorted Reform Prosram.  With technical assistance from
the UNDP and the Bank, the Governmert has established procedures for
formulating a three-year rolling PIP and for monitoring investments. The
first annual tranche of the three-year PIP will constitute the investment
budget. The PIP will be revised twice a year in consultation with the
Bank to reflect implementation experience and to add new projects which
meet the agreed set of criteria. The monitoring of investments will be
substantially strengthened by the merging of the Banque Intdgree de
Projets (BIP) at the Ministry of Planning and the Service Informatique de
Suivi des Projets (SISP) at the Presidency.
70.         Investment  decisions will  consider  future  operating and
maintenance costs as well as the availability and sources of funding. To
this end, the Government will assess the recurrent needs of the principal
spending programs in the priority sectors (by 1993 these will be: basic
education, health, road maintenance, agriculture, and the environment) as
well as of all major projects to be completed in 1991 and 1992. Starting
in 1992, inclusion of new projects in the PIP will require an estimate of
future recurrent costs. Satisfactory implementation of the 1991 and 1992
investment budgets and agreement on the 1992-94 investment program would
be conditions of second and third tranche release of SAL I.
C.    Incentives for Private Sector Develonment
71.         The Government now recognizes that economic growth in Burkina
Paso will depend on greater private sector activity and on export growth
and diversification.   To this end the Government has appointed to its
cabinet a number of people who have worked in the private sector or who
unequivocally support its growth. It has also 'tgun actively to promote
privatization and private investment.
72.         Despite a depreciation of the real exchange rate (para. 15),
the formal sector is still uncompetitive; costs are high not only because
skilled labor and management are scarce but also because of onerous labor
regulations. Energy costs are the highest in the Sahel due to pricing
policy for petroleum products and high capital costs in power generation.
Past policies have induced inappropriate technologies and a dependence on
imported inputs. While Burkina, as a member of the West African Monetary
Union and the CFA Franc Zone, cannot take unilateral action to adjust the
nominal exchange rates, there is considerable scope to reduce costs and
achieve a real exchange rate depreciation through structural policy reform
measures.   This  section deals with the measures to be adopted by
Government to create policy, regulatory and institutional conditions to
reduce costs, increase productive efficiency, and stimulate both foreign
and domestic private investment. It includes a program to privatize state
holdings in public enterprises.
Public Enterprise Reforms
73.         Backtround.  Following independence, Burkina Faso pursued a
deliberate policy of parastatal intervention as the key instrument of



23
economic development. The resulting 84 public enterprises (not including
9 banks and financial institutions) are officially classified by
Government into 42 industrial and commercial establishments (EPICs), all
fully government-owned and operating within a relatively rigid legal and
administrative framework.   Another 37 are classified as mixed-capital
enterprises (SEMs) under government control but with the possibility of
private shareholding. The SEMs are active in all sectors of the economy,
although they dominate agro-industries and mining. The size of the SEMs
varies widely from less than 30 to more than 1,000 employees; just 10
enterprises account for about 72 percent of the reported total labor force
and 90 percent of the sales of the SEMs.  The EPICs provide mostly
utilities, social services (such as social security and retirement
benefits) and economic services (such as the promotion of agricultural
production).
74.         The public enterprise sector, with a substantial share--about
17 percent--of the modern sector's value added, has a significant impact
on economic activity and public finances. A precise evaluation of the
sector's performance is not easy, however, because data on individual
enterprises are very sketchy. Financial information for 1989 on about 30
SEMs shows consolidated operating losses of around CFAF 6.7 billion (or 8
percent of total sales), with 13 enterprises together losing about CPAF
8.5 billion. Moreover, even some apparently profitable enterprises could
have been lossmakers if the Government did not grant them special tax and
custom duty exemptions, which stood at about CPA? 7 billion for the whole
sector in 1989.
75.         Recent Adiustment Measures.  The Government has decided to
divest its holdings in public enterprises.  Consequently, except for a
limited group of strategically important enterprises such as public
utilities, it anticipates allowing the private sector to own at least 75
percent of the capital in those enterprises that are economically and
financially viable.   The rest are to be liquidated.   In 1990,  the
Government initiated the process by liquidating three enterprises,
privatizing one and taking a minority participation in a new mining
venture. In order to facilitate further divestiture, it has begun to
srbmit them to the same operating conditions as those of private
enterprises: in late 1990, it eliminated guarantees on loans granted by
banks to public enterprises; it also terminated customs exemptions and
subsidies to all PEs with the exception of public utilities for which
indirect subsidies have been converted into direct subsidies clearly
identifiable in the Government budget; finally, it initiated a review of
cross-debts among the enterprises, the banks and the state with a view to
eliminating them.   The Government also appointed,  in late 1990,  a
Privatization Committee which prepared a divestiture strategy which was
discussed and agreed on during appraisal.   This strategy spells out
measures that would put public enterprises under similar operating
conditions as private enterprises, proposes an action plan for
divestiture, and defines the legal and institutional arrangements to carry
it out.
76.         SAL Sunnorted Refonm Program.  During the SAL I period, the
Government will (i) implement statutory and financial reforms for public
enterprises to induce greater efficiency; (ii) create an appropriate



24
policy and legal context for divestituret and (iii) begin the divestiture
process which would be completed under a proposed IDA private sector
development project  (FY93).   First,  all direct subsidies with the
exception of those granted to public utilities, will be eliminated in
1991. The Government expects to complete a cross-debt study by July 31,
1991, and eliminate all cross-debts by December 31, 1991. The authorities
vill also amend the laW governing public enterprises before July 31, 1991,
In order to put them on a par, as far as possible, with private
enterprises. The statutes governing individual public enterprises will be
reviewed before December 31, 1991, in order to ensure that they are fully
consistent with the new law. The authorities will also enact a law to
permit putting financially distressed enterprises under receivership.
Second, the SAL would assist the Government in establishing the proper
legal and institutional arrangements to facilitate the divestiture
process.   These arrangements  include the promulgation of a law on
privatization that would: (i) announce the Government's intention to
disinvest from public enterprises, and spell out procedures, based on
competitive bidding, that would be used to carry out the sale of
Government shares in public enterprises; and (ii) establish of an
independent Privatization Commission to monitor the divestiture process.
Divestiture itself will be carried out with the assistance of private
experts experienced in privatizing public enterprises. Third, the SAL
would help initiate the divestiture process.   This would involve (see
Annex VI)s (i) conversion into administrative institutions (EPAs) financed
directly by the Government budget, those EPICs providing public services
only: (ii) putting those that have been identified as having financial
difficulties under receivership; and (iii) initiating the divestiture
process for 12 enterprises, identified as most attractive to private
Investors, which would be privatized by the end of 1992.
lankina Sector Restructurina
77.         !ackaround.  The restructuring of Burkina's banking sector
under the adjustment program must be seen in the context of the recent
MMOA-wide reforms implemented by the Banque Centrale des Etats de
l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO).   In late 1988, the BCEAO undertook to
develop a more modern and responsive financial system. In 1989, following
consultations with the Bank and the IHF, it required banks in the zone to
eliminate all directed credit and preferential interest rates, allowing
interest rates to be freely set by the banks within margins defined by the
ICKAD.   To strengthen banking supervision,  in 1990 a single banking
coavmssion was created for the zone with full powers to penalize
delinquent  banks.    Finally,  as  part  of  its  contribution  to  the
restructuring of banking systems within the zone, UMOA agreed that BCEAO's
claims on the banks to be restructured or liquidated would be converted
Into concessional claims on member governments.
76.         Burkina's banking system is made up of eight banks in which
the Government is either sole or majority shareholder. Audits by BCEAO in
1989 and 1990 indicated that although the banking system enjoyed a
relatively strong liquidity position, it was increasingly affected by
portfolio problems. In fact, four banks were technically bankrupt, with
consolidated losses and non-performing loans amounting to about CFAF 71
billion  and a negative net worth of CFAF 29 billion.    Government



25
interference in the management and lending decisions of the banks was the
main reason for the poor performance.
79.         Recent Adjustment Measures. Realizing that the restoration of
sound public finance and the restructuring of the banking system are
interrelated, the Government decided to address them simultaneously in
June 1990.  It began by elimirating its guarantees on loans granted to
public enterprises.   In the PFP,  it also agreed to promote private
ownership of the banks by: (i) holding state participation to no more than
25 percent; (ii) changing the law on the composition of the boards of
directors of the banks so that representation strictly reflects ownership;
and (iii) assuming the cost of restructuring individual banks.
80.         After extensive consultation with the BCEAO and the key
donors, the Government also initiated a comprehensive restructuring of the
banking system (see Annexes II and III for details) which, as a result of
the merger of three small banks (CAT, UREBA, BFCI), would result in an
immediate reduction from eight banks to six. This plan includes: (i) the
financial restructuring of five distressed banks by a cleaning up of their
balance sheets including the transfer of bad loans from the banks' balance
sheets to a newly established and legally empowered Loan Recovery Office
located in the Presidency, and the transfer of bank liabilities from their
balance sheets to the Government Treasury; (ii) the recapitalization of
each restructured bank by private shareholders, amongst which a well
established banker who would assume the management of the new bank; and,
(iii) the limitation of the share of Government and its agencies in the
capital of the restructured banks to a maximum of 25 percent.
81.         Negotiations to transfer the majority ownership of the BIB
(one of five banks to be restructured) to foreign partners associated with
local private investors are already close to conclusion. With respect to
the other four distressed banks (the development bank BNDB, and the three
banks to be merged), in February 1991, the Government appointed receivers
whose mandate is to carry out the restructuring or the liquidation of
these banks in accordance with the action plan. The receivers will also
help the Government identify private investors to recapitalize the banks
as necessary.
82.         SAL-suvowrted Reform Protram.  The Government has agreed that
the privatization of BIB would be completed in 1991, and the privatization
of BNDB and the three merged banks by June 30, 1992. For the BICIA, and
the CNCA (the agricultural development bank), divestiture would be
completed by third tranche release.  BALIB, a jointly owned Burkinabel
Libyan bank, is operating well and is too small to be of concern to
Government or to the BCEAO.
83.         In order to restructure the banks' balance  sheets,  the
Government has agreed to cover the CFAF 71 million in losses by September
30, 1991, throughs (i) the use of the capital, reserves and provisions of
the banks in question totalling about CFAF 42 billion; (ii) the assumption
by Government, on concessional terms, of the debt owed by the banks to the
BCEAO totalling about CFAF 9 billion; (iii) the assumption by the
Government of bank debts to the national social security fund (CNSS) of
about CFAF 16 billion; and (iv) the use by the banks of about CFAF 4



26
billion in Government deposits.   As part of the restructuring of the
banking system, the Government will also assume the cost of laying off
excess personnel (CFAF 1.75 billion) and settlement of its internal
arrears towards the banks, the postal checking system and the National
Savings Fund (CFAF 18.8 billion). These latter expenses will be financed
by the proceeds of loan recovery (see Annex III, para 6.2.3 of measures
for details) totalling ClFA 6.6 billion over a period of five years with
the residual amount to be covered by the counterpart funds of the SAL.
84.         To  lay  the  basis  for  a  deepening  of  the  financial
intermediation system beyond the restructuring of banks, the Government
has agreed to' carry out by June 30, 1992 (i) a review of the non-bank
financial sector with a view to strengthening existing private
institutions and to exploring the feasibility of creating new financial
instruments such as venture capital investment companies and guarantee
schemes; and (ii) a study to assess the possibility of converting the
postal checking network (CCP) into a financial institution shielded from
the arbitrary claims made in the past by the Government treasury.  The
results of this work would also form the basis for the proposed IDA-
financed private sector development project in FY93.
External Trade Reaulations
85.         Backxround.  Since the early 1960's, the Government's pursuit
of import substitution policies and higher fiscal revenues have led to
progressively higher tariffs and non-tariffs barriers.  These controls
became particularly intense in the 1980's in the context of highly
interventionist Government policies.  The resulting incentive structure
was biased against exports by the direct taxation of exports and by the
heavy protection granted against imports. Until recently, export taxes
were levied on virtually all goods, which were also subject to prior
authorization. The taxation of imports has been extremely inefficient and
characterized by a multitude of import taxes, a great disparity of tariff
rates, a cumbersome administrative valuation system, and a complex prior
authorization system including: (i) special import authorization for
nearly all goods that compete with domestic production and serving as
protective   quantitative   restrictions   (QRs);   (ii)   prior   import
authorization for some goods (non-protective); (iii) exceptional import
authorization for individual consumption goods; (iv) technical visas for
selected products; and (v) local purchase requirements for a few locally
produced goods.
86.         The level of total nominal taxation on imports is relatively
high and ranges from 0 to about 300 percent, with an average level of
nominal protection well above 70 percent. This structure of protection
impairs competition, provides a powerful incentive for inefficient import
substitution, and directs resources to activities which may not correspond
to the country's comparative advantage.   The relatively high level of
protection and complexity of the current system encourage fraud and
necessitate widespread granting of exemptions from import duties.
87.         State interference in international trade has also hurt the
management of public resources.  The banking sector has had to finance
the agricultural products export monopoly (CSPPA), the large losses of



27
which now constitute bad debt. Two other trading monopolies (SONABHY and
CGP) have used much of the parafiscal resources they have generated to
build large headquarters and invest in unproductive enterprises.
Importers have also had to pay additional earmarked taxes to three public
enterprises, which have also built large headquarters buildings while
providing services that many businessmen believe are not commensurate with
their cost.
88.         Recent Adiustment Efforts.  In 1990, the Government began to
allow increased competition in import and export trade. In particular, it
abolished prior export authorizations for all products except cereals, and
lifted the state monopolies on all export goods other than cotton and
gold.  It also abolished export taxes.  In 1990, the Government lifted
the prior import authorizations for 29 categories of goods, and special
import authorizations for 7 categories. Local purchase requirements for
imports were completely abolished. In early 1991, and as part of SAL I
preparation, special import authorizations were lifted on 6 additional
categories of goods, thus abolishing about 60 percent of all QRs.
89.         SAL-sugDorted Reform Protram.   The Government intends to
simplify the administrative procedures for import and export operations,
abolish all remaining QRs on trade, and ultimately rationalize the entire
trade taxation system. All reform measures will be announced to economic
operators well in advance so that they know the new trade procedures, the
list of products still subject to QRs and the timing and sequencing of
their elimination, as well as the details of the envisaged rationalized
trade taxation system. With regard to the simplification of import trade
procedures, during the period leading to their elimination, the various
requirements will be consolidated into a single authorization (the special
import authorization) as of August 1, 1991.  At the same time, import
procedures will be streamlined with the establishment of a one-stop window
for all administrative procedures regarding importing.   By the end of
1991, the Government will introduce the requirement for preshipment
verification of imports in order to reduce fraud associated with under-
invoicing and misclassification of imports.
90.         With  regard  to QRs,  their  elimination will  be  closely
coordinated with pricing liberalization. In order to prevent inadvertent
disruption of local production, the remaining QRs will be progressively
eliminated, starting with those on imported products with no locally
produced equivalent. By end 1992, about 90 percent of all QRs will be
eliminated.   To help domestic enterprises adjust to increased external
competition, transitory tariff adjustments will be made on their inputs,
while QRs on products competing with their outputs will be temporarily
replaced by tariffs,  if deemed necessary.   This will be done on a
selective basis given the already very high level of tariffs and the poor
revenue collection performance.   The remaining QRs will be completely
lifted by end 1993. Only five products, deemed strategic, will be subject
to special authorization for security reasons (arms and military
equipments, explosives), for health (pharmaceutical products, toxic
plants), and environment purposes (small fishing nets).
91.         With regard to the rationalization of the existing taxation
system, during the SAL I period, a reform of import taxation will be



28
prepared to lay the basis for further improvement in the incentive
framework. The aim is to reduce the disparity in nominal and effective
rates of protection across activities with a neutral revenue impact. In
particular, import taxation would be simplified by consolidating existing
taxes, reducing the number and disparity of tariff rates, replacing all
specific taxes by ad valorem tariffs while the taxation based on
administrative values (valeurs mercuriales) will be replaced by taxation
based on actual CIP values.  To this end, as of January 1, 1992, all
Ovaleurs mercuriales' will be abolished and transitory tariff adjustments
made on competing products in order to reduce the effect of potential
price shocks. No later than January 1, 1992, the Government will review
its trade taxation policy in coordination with CEAO regional reforms
currently under preparation.  On the basis of this review, a detailed
implementation schedule will be agreed upon by June 30, 1992, and a new
tariff schedule will be put in effect on January 1, 1993.
92.         Finally, before December 31, 1991, the Government will study
the role and performance of the Conseil Burkinab# des Chargeurs (CBC), the
Societe Nationale de Transit Burkinabb (SNTB), the Office National du
Commerce  Exterieur  (ONAC),  the  Societd  Nationale  Burkinabe  des
Hydrocarbures (SONABHY), and the Chamber of Commerce (CC) with a view to
increasing their value to private sector operators.  In this context,
various options will be considered including possible incorporation of
these institutions into the administration as public services as well as
substitution of the currently earmarked taxes levied by CBC, SNTB and ONAC
with fees paid voluntarily.
Price Liberalization
93.         Backaround.  In the late 1980's, the use of Government price
controls was intensified and generalized to apply to virtually all
imported and all domestically produced goods. Until recently, the system
of administered prices included: (i) price fixing by state monopolies on
a few goods deemed essential (rice, sugar, wheat flour, and petroleum
products); (ii) authorized pricing for locally produced goods, based on a
detailed, time-consuming examination of production costs by the
authorities; and (iii) preset profit margins for wholesale and retail
trade on imported goods, serving de facto as a protective device as preset
profit margins levied on imports were generally greater than authorized
margins on similar locally produced goods. Several studies of the system
have shown that, overall, it militated against efficient growth.
94.         Recent Adiustment Efforts.   The Government is committed to
complete liberalization of prices and increased reliance on internal and
external competition to enhance the efficiency of resource allocation and
stimulate growth. In 1989, the Government took the first step in relaxing
price controls by assuring a rapid procossing of requests, and adopting an
ex-post authorized pricing control system in lieu of the previous
cumbersome ex-ante control system. In 1990, the Government reduced the
number of groups of imported goods subject to fixed margins from 151 to
88. In early 1991, and as part of SAL I preparation, this number was
reduced from 88 to 44, and the list of product groups still subject to
preset profit margins was made available to economic operators. At the
same time, the system of authorized pricing for locally produced goods wRa



29
abolished with the exception of a negative list of goods deemed essential
(rice, sugar, nd wheat flour).
95.         SAL-suinorted Reform Protram.  The Government's objective is
to progressively eliminate remaining preset profit margins on all imported
products during the SAL period. To this end, the list of products still
subject to preset profit margins will be progressively reduced from 44 tD
36 in 1991, and to only S in 1992. In order to ensure a competitive
market determination of prices, price liberalization will be duly
coordinated with removal of QRs. With regard to locally produced products
whose prices are fized by state monopolies (rice, sugar and wheat flour),
price policies are to be examined under the Agriculture SECAL.   With
regard to petroleum products, in 1991, the Government intends to complete
a study on the taxation and regulation of the petroleum sector with a view
to introducing a substantial simplification of the present tax and pricing
structure. Its recommendation would be put into effect in 1993. In this
context and to further enhance the business climate, the Government has
agreed to review the role of the price stabilization funds (CGP, CSSPA),
and of the grain marketing agency (OFNACER).
Reaulatorv and Institutional Reforms
96.         BackaXyrMd.   In addition to the policy and institutional
issues described earlier, other regulations and institutions exist which
have also served as obstacles to private investment, often inadvertently.
These include; (i) a constraining investment code and outdated commercial
legislation; (ii) rigid labor legislation; (iii) a legal/judicial system
which has been eroded by a parallel system of 'revolutionary justices;
(iv) land tenure laws which exclude individual property ownership; and (v)
a proliferation of extra-budgetary taxes collected for quasi-governmental
agencies from private business, ostensibly for services rendered to the
private sector (see para. 92).   The virtual absence of institutions
outside the banking system to advise and finance private investors locally
has also been a constraint on private sector investment.
97.         Recent Adiustment Efforts.  To eliminate these impediments to
investors, in mid-1990 the Government asked the Chamber of Commerce, in
close consultation with private business leaders, to undertake a
comprehensive study of market regulation and to identify the major
obstacles to private investment. The completed study includes a critical
review of the Investment Code which was last revised in 1184. At the
Government's request, the UNDP undertook complementary work in 1990.
Building on this work and on that of the SAL preparation mission in
October 1990, at the Government's request, a joint FIAS/MIGA mission
helped the Government identify the principal texts, regulations, and legal
and institutional deficiencies constraining private investment.   The
result of this work has for the most part been incorporated into the
Government's adjustment program.
98.         In parallel with the SAL, a number of steps have been taken to
provide institutional support to private investment. In the broad context
of its banking sector reforms, with the collaboration of the French
government, a feasibility study on the creation of an interbank guarantee
fund for loans to the private sector has been completed. The fund, to be



30
put into effect once the restructuring of the banking system is complete,
is to be capitalized exclusively by the banks and the donors.   The
Government has also approached the French authorities to assist in
transforming the Chamber of Commerce into an organization more
representative  of  the  private  sector.    With  respect  to  technical
assistance for private entrepreneurs, the Government has held discussions
with the Africa Project Development Facility (APDF) about establishing a
Sahelian office, to be located in Ouagadougou, which would help small-
scale investors. At the Ministry level, in the context of liberalized
trade and price controls, the Ministry of Commerce is transforming and
refocussing its activities from regulation, to quality control and export
promotion.
99.         SAL Sunported Reform Proaram.  The Government of Burkina Faso
is committed to a streamlining of administrative procedures and legal
requirements to enhance the efficiency of resource allocation and to
stimulate private economic activity. To this end, the Investment Code is
currently being revised with the assistance of PIASIMIGA and UNIDO. The
intent is to correct the absence of benefits in the existing code for
wholly owned foreign firms and for the agricultural sector, and to
simplify the Code's eligibility criteria and fiscal advantages. The draft
code is to be examined by a national commission in 1991, and promulgated
during the first quarter of 1992 as a condition of SAL second tranche
release. As for commercial legislation, the Government has decided to
introduce, before July 31, 1991, a law on company receivership, the
absence of which is perceived as a major weakness in the law governing
enterprises. Furthermore, many of the provisions in the Commercial Code
and the law on companies have been overtaken by events or neutralized by
the passage of legislation during the revolutionary era, largely in an
uncoordinated fashion. Consequently, as part of a more general effort to
consolidate existing laws and legislation in Burkina, in 1991, the
Government will establish a Law Revision Committee with statutory powers
to revise, update, edit, and consolidate legal texts with a view to having
them published in an official journal in fully authoritative form. On
this basis, a new Commercial Code will be adopted in 1992.
100.        In order to improve the prospects for employment creation, the
Government is amending existing labor legislation, with the objective of
reducing labor market rigidities and simplifying procedures for hiring and
firing. In late 1990, the process of Labor Code reform began, including
close consultation with the six union confederations and the employers.
In January 1991, "ideological tests", which had been required for all
prospective employees, were eliminated.   The new Code is intended to
provide much greater flexibility in the use of long and short term
contracts, and in the dismissal of employees for economic reasons. With
the assistance of the ILO, the new Code is being revised to provide a
clearer definition of the role of the national employment office (ONPE),
whose monopoly on hiring is to be eliminated in 1991. The final draft of
the Code will be discussed with the Bank prior to its submission to the
Council of Ministers, and its promulgation is a condition of SAL second
tranche release.
101.        With respect to the judicial and legal system, the Government
has confirmed that the June 1991 constitutional referendum will be



31
followed by a complete reorganization of the court system, involving the
installation of the president of a newly established Supreme Court as head
of the judiciary, and hence the elimination of revolutionary courts and
committees which have operated as a parallel and in effect preeminent
system of justice.  The draft Constitution provides for an independent
judiciary.   The Government, with French assistance, will undertaXe a
program to train and to reinforce the role of judges and magistrates so
that the credibility and effectiveness of the legal system is
reestablished.
102.        In a further effort to encourage private investment,  the
Government has recently introduced new legislation to permit private
ownership of land, thereby reversing its policy of exclusive state
ownership of land in Burkina.  The new policy is reflected in the new
Constitution.    The new  land  legislation which was  adopted by  the
Government on May 29, 1991, recognizes secure individual land rights which
can be freely transferred.
D.    Human Resource DeveloDment and Poverty Alleviation in Adiust&ant
103.        Over the medium-term,  the reform program proposed by the
Government in its first PFP, in particular the components to be supported
by the SAL and the Transport and Agriculture SECALs, will result in better
use of public resources, growth in the private sector, and increases in
per capita income of about 1 percent per annum, combined with higher
employment  growth.    The main  objective  8f the current  expenditure
restructuring, and associated budgetary reforms is to enable the
Government to satisfy an increased share of needs in primary education and
basic health. As a result of the implementation of the reform program,
both rural and urban incomes are expected to increase. During the SAL
period, the living standards of vulnerable groups will be monitored and
evaluated through household surveys.
104.        Background. In the late 1980s, the revolutionary Government's
early emphasis on social development and increased equity gave way to an
inappropriate pattern of budgetary expenditures as resource allocations to
the social sectors grew more slowly than military expenditures. In 1990
the Government realized that economic adjustment would nesd to include the
reduction of employment in non-development spending and increased priority
on the development of human resources. Also, in recent years, Government
pressure has resulted in the national social security fund (CNSS)
financing of dubious public investments. Because the investments have not
generated sufficient revenues for repayment, the CNSS cannot expect to
recover a substantial part of its loans.
105.        Past Adiustment Efforts.  In 1990, the Government created an
interministerial commission to deal with the social dimensions of the
adjustment program.   It also made resources available to increase the
number of primary school teachers, and reduced scholarships to university
students.   It dropped from the 1991 PIP all investment projects that
proposed using funds from the CNSS and for which alternative financing was
not yet committed.  With the assistance of Bank staff, it prepared a
medium-term food security program, to be financed under the proposed
Agricultural SECAL. To help monitor and further identify transitional



32
costs, the Government also designed a household survey, to begin in 1991,
that will help identify adjustment costs, if any, and possible measures to
deal with them.
106.        SAL-Supnorted Refom  Program.  In addition to the reforms In
public expenditures in support of accelerated human resource development
presented in Part B. above, the SAL will support actions in two areass (i)
strengthening management of the social security funds; and (ii)
development of a system for monitoring the living standards of vulnerable
groups .
107.        To preserve the likelihood that people will receive their
social security funds, the Government will repay the outstanding arrears
on debt repayment. Starting in 1991, future loans from the CNSS will be
at market interest rates only, and the Government will not interfere in
the investment decisions of the CNSS.  In 1991, an actuarial study of
contribution levels and expected future liabilities, as well as a proposal
for sound management mechanisms of the CNSS and of the Government's8
employee pension fund (CARFO) will be prepared; the recommendations will
be implemented in 1992.
108.        The Government intends to implement a priority survey (PS) in
1991 to collect data to allow the monitoring and evaluation of living
conditions during adjustment.   The data will identify target groups
requiring special measures. The survey, which the Bank preappraised in
November 1990, will be implemented by the National Statistical and
Demographic Institute (INSD). By strengthening the Government's capacity
to design and execute improved poverty alleviation programs and projects,
this effort will fully integrate the priorities and social concerns of the
Go"ernment  into  structural  adjustment.    The  survey will  focus  on
employmert, revenue, consumption, savings, housing, education, health and
nutrition. The data will be discussed by a Users' Committee, to include
representatives  from  selected  ministries,   INSD,  non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), and bilateral and multilateral donors.
109.        In addition  to  identifying vulnerable  and disadvantaged
groups, the Government will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
public sector management by strengthening the statistical services of the
ministries implementing social programs so they would be better able to
carry out statistical analysis and sectoral economic studies aimed at the
formulation of social policies. Financing for these activities has been
provided by the Government of Norway and other donors.  A capacity to
analyze core socioeconomic data from national household surveys will be
developed in the National Research and Development Center (CEDRES) at the
Uhiversity of Ouagadougou. A program to train all professional staff
involved in the areas of survey design and socioeconomic studies will be
designed.
III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.    Credit History
110.        The  proposed  credit would  be  the  first  IDA structural
adjustment credit to Burkina Paso.   The possibility of a structural



33
adjustment credit was first considered with the Government during
discussions of the Country Economic Memorandum in January 1989. A PPF to
help in the preparation of key reforms was discussed between late 1989 and
November 1990.   The proposed SAL was identified during a mission in
June/July 1990, prepared in October/November 1990, and appraised in
February/March 1991. Technical discussions were held in Washington from
May 13-17, 1991.   Negotiations were held in Geneva on May 23, 1991.
Supplementary data on the proposed credit are provided in Annex IV.
S. Pinancing and Manaaement of the Pror_am
111.        Borrower and Credit Amount.   It  is proposed that  the
Government's adjustment program be supported by an IDA credit on standard
terms for the equivalent of US$80 million. This amount is sufficient to
support the momentum of the Government's policy reforms and to finance a
significant part of the financing gap in 1991 and 1992, assuming SAL
disbursement over 16-20 months.   The African Development Bank and the
European Economic Community under its new Lome IV facility intend to
provide at least US$20 million equivalent and US$30 million equivalent,
respectively, in cofinancing or parallel financing. France has already
contributed the equivalent of US$20 million in quick disbursing eupport
for 1990 and has indicated its intention to provide at least as much in
1991 and 1992.   In addition, Canada intends to provide US$15 million
equivalent in parallel or cofinancing in 1991-92, and Germany about US$12
million equivalent during the same period.   Since Burkina Faso became
eligible for the SPA in April 1991, Japan and the Netherlands have also
indicated the possibility of cofinancing the SAL.   The Government of
Burkina Faso will be the SAL I borrower.
112.        Procurement.   The proposed credit of US$80 million woui40
finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of general imports, excluding luxury
goods, military equipment and environmentally hazardous products as
defined under the Standard International Trade Codes (SITC). The Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) prepared by the Bank in 1990
indicated that the 'aws and decrees governing the procurement procedures
of Burkina were in broad conformity with Association Guidelines.   A
General Procurement Notice will be published in *Development Business' to
alert exporters from Bank-member countries to export opportunities offered
in respect of this operation.   Imports made by ministries,  public
enterprises and private importers above US$2 million would be procured in
accordance with ICB. This threshold is consistent with the anticipated
size of contra    and the experience of Burkina with Bank procedures.
113.        Public sector procedures are largely based upon competition,
be it open or limited. The Association surveyed a sample of potential
public importers and found that when a limited number of suppliers were
contacted directly, this was on the basis of lists which in general were
reviewed and updated regularly. Procedures used by the public sector for
transactions below the ICB threshold are acceptable and each participating
entity would follow its own procedures.   The Association reviewed the
current procedures used by some major potential private importers. These
procedures were competitive by soliciting quotations from a variety of
sources before finalizing purchases, except for cases of direct



34
contracting acceptable to the Association.   Accordingly, the standard
commercial practices being followed are acceptable without restriction.
114.        Imports shipped prior to August 1988 would not be eligible for
Bank financing. Contracts below US$5,000 would not be eligible for Bank
financing; this threshold would be consistent with a satisfactory access
of small and medium size importers and still a manageable operation from
an  administrative  point  of view.    Retroactive  financing would  be
acceptable up to US$16 million (20 percent of the credit amount) for
eligible imports paid during the four-onth period preceding credit
agreement signature. Procurement would be coordinated by the Ministry of
Finance  under  arrangements  satisfactory  to  the  Association.    The
Government would provide quarterly progress reports on procurement
activities to the Association. As noted earlier, preshipment inspection
would be put into effect as of January 1992 as part of the Government's
program. No more than 50 percent of the credit would be used to purchase
petroleum and food products.
115.        Disbursement.  The proposed credit would be disbursed against
a general list of imports (excluding products on a negative list).
Disbursements would be made on the basis of fully documented reimbursement
applications for individual contracts exceeding US$200,000, and SOEs for
contracts under US$200,000 with the disbursement/procurement documentation
retained in the field and made available to auditors: TORs for an audit
would cover verification of procurement for conformity with procedures
outlined in the credit agreement.   The Government would establish a
special account at the Central Bank to facilitate disbursements.   The
closing date for the proposed credit would be June 30, 1993.
116.        Because of the lead time to complete revision of the various
codes and the complexity involved in the divestiture of public
enterprises,  it is proposed that the credit be disbursed in three
tranches.  In view of the numerous measures the Government has already
implemented and the larger gap to be financed in 1991, the first tranche
would be US$40 million, with the two subsequent tranches US$20 million
each.    The  likelihood of additional cofinanciers  in  1992 and the
beneficial impact of the policy reforms on the financing gap, would allow
for smaller second and third tranches. The first tranche would be made
available upon credit effectiveness, with about eight to ten months
elapsing between subsequent tranches.   Disbursement of the second and
third tranches would be contingent on satisfactory reviews of the
adjustment program, agreement on any additional measures needed to achieve
the program's initial objectives and fulfillment of the specific
conditions listed below.
117.        Management and Monitoring of the Prosram.  In late 1990, the
Government transferred responsibility for overall implementation of its
adjustment program from the Ministry of Plan to the Ministry of Finance.
An interministerial coraission under the chairmanship of the Minister of
Finance has been created to coordinate the adjustment program overall,
with implementation of the various components the responsibility of the
line ministries. A permanent secretariat to the commission consisting of
specialized subcommittees has been established to assure day-to-day follow
up of SAL implementation.   The secretariat would also be empowered to



35
receive and quickly act on complaints from Burkinabb citizens (an
ombudsman role) concerning the failure of Government officials or agencies
to apply new regulations or procedures in the program.   An ad hoc
subcommittee to the commission, consisting of the Directors of Payroll,
the Budget, and Planning in the Ministry of Finance has been established
to manage and follow up on the budgetary reforms in the program, in
particular. Continued close collaboration with IMF staff on the budgetary
reforms in particular, would also ensure monitoring of key economic
policies and indicators.
118.        The Government's recent performance in initiating adjustment
on its own, and the resoluteness it has shown in dealing with similar
crises in the past, suggest it has the will and the capacity to implement
a comprehensive adjustment program. The timing and sequencing of policy
reforms has been tailored to the Government's implementation capacity.
Weaknesses in the ministries' abilities to implement specific aspects of
the program have been identified and technical assistance and logistical
support will be provided both as part of the civil service reform program
to be supported by SAL I under separate actions to be supported by France
and the UNDP, and in a proposed IDA project to reinforce public sector
institutional capacity (FY92). With the support of the IMF and IDA staff,
key services in the Ministry of Finance would be reinforced. At the same
time, to improve financial accountability in the public sector, the French
government has agreed to assist the recently created auditor general's
service.
C.     Monitorable Actions
119.        The policy measures to be taken under the proposed SAL are
detailed in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (see Annex II).
Tranche releases will depend upon satisfactory performance under the
structural adjustment program, including the maintenance of an appropriate
macroeconomic framework, agreement on additional actions required to
achieve the program's objectives, as well as the completion of a specified
list of core actions. The Letter of Development Policy forms the basis
for the performance review.
120.        The following core actions were taken by the Government before
negotiations of the proposed programt
(i)      Government approval of a first Policy Framework Paper
1991-93;
(ii)      transmittal  to  the  Bank  of  the  1991  current  and
investment budgets including a reduction in military
expenditures, a reduction in scholarships and current
budgetary transfers, and a nominal reduction in the wage
bill (para. 57);
(iii)      elimination of all price  controls  on  domestically
produced products (para. 94);
(iv)      elimination of all export taxes (para. 88);



36
(v)      elimination of local purchase  requirement  (twinned
imports) (para. 88)t
(vi)      elimination of import licensing requirements for 36
product groups as part of program to eliminate all
import licensing by end 1993 (para. 88);
(vii)      elimination of price margins on 107 imported products in
accordance with the agreed upon action plan to eliminate
price margins on all imported products by end 1993
(paras. 94, 95);
(viii)      elimination of ideological tests as requirement for
hiring of new employees (para. 100);
(ix)      adoption  of  a  public  enterprise  divestiture  and
privatization program (para. 75);
(x)      elimination of automatic hiring of university and public
administration school graduates (para. 61);
(xi)      appointment of two receivers for restructuring of banks
(para. 81):
(xii)      agreement with the Association on a revised methodology
for estimating recurrent costs (para. 68).
(xiii)      submission to the Association of a Letter of Development
Policy;
(xiv)      transmittal to the Association of proposals for meeting
the aggregate and sectoral wage bill targets in 1992
(paras. 60-62);
(xv)      submission to the Association of revised PIP for 1991,
1992, and 1993 (para. 68);
(xvi)      submission to the Association of proposals to merge the
Integrated Project Bank (BIP) with the Computerized Unit
for Project Monitoring (SISP) (para. 69); and
(xvii)      creation of a technical secretariat attached to the SAL
Interministerial Commission to supervise the application
of new SAL regulations (para. 117).
The following core actions were taken by the Government as conditions of
Board presentations
tl)      enactment of a new law on land tenure guaranteeing
private ownership of land (para. 102);



37
(ii)      agreement with the Association on EPICs to be converted
into government agencies (EPAs), Into state enterprises
(SEs) and mixed capital enterprises (SD(s) (para. 76);
(iii)      agreement with  the Association on final  lists  of
enterprises for which# (a) the status quo will be
preserved, with regard to the level of Government's
share   participationt   (b)   the   state's   equity
participation will be eliminated or reduced to maximum
of 25 percent; and (c) receivership is envisaged in
order to restructure them (before privatization) or
liquidate them (para. 76)t
(iv)      agreement with the Association on a timetable for
privatisation beginning with the 12 enterprlses that
already have private share ownership and are profitable
(para. 76);
(v)      agreement with the Association on tems of reference for
studies on the roles of OFNACER, CGP, and CSPPA in the
context of a liberalized pricing system (para. 95); and
(vi)      simplification of the *enquOte de moralit6u administered
on all new foreign investors (paras. 99, 100).
The following are the core actions to be taken by the Government as
conditions of second tranche release (anticipated in May 1992)s
(i)      the Borrower has approved a 1992 current and investment
budget satisfactory to the Association, using the new
nomenclature (para. 66);
(ii)      the Borrower has implemented the 1991 current and
investment budget in accordance wlth targets in the
priority sectors, and in a manner satisfactory to the
Association (paras. 60, 66);
(ili)      the Borrower has promulgated a new Labor Code (para.
100);
(iv)      the Borrower has promulgated a new Investment Code
(para. 99); and
(v)      establishment by  law  of a law  revision committee
responsible for the consolidation of all laws (para.
99).
The following are the core actions to be taken by the Government as
conditions of third tranche release (anticipated in February 1993):
Mi)      the Borrower has approved a 1993 current and Investment
budget satisfactory to the Association, using the new
nomenclature (para. 66);



38
lii)      the Borrower has  implemented the 1992 current and
investment budget in accordance with targets in the
priority sectors, and in a manner satisfactory to the
Association (paras. 60, 66);
(iii)      the Borrower has completed divestiture of its capital
holdings in CNCA and BICIA to a maximum of 25 percent
(para. 82);
(iv)      the Borrower has implemented a new petroleum product
pricing policy satisfactory to the Association (para.
95);
(v)     the Borrower has revised and updated its commercial laws
with a view towards publishing commercial legislation in
consolidated form (para. 99); and
(vi)      the  Borrower  has  eliminated  price  controls  and
quantitative restrictions on imports according to an
agreed schedule (paras. 90, 94, 95).
D.    Benefits and Risks.
121.        The proposed SAL is expected to help restore internal and
external financial and economic equilibria and transform Burkina Paso's
interventionist approach to economic management. Public investment and
expenditure would be refocused to contribute more effectively to sustained
economic growth and to ensure greater social benefits.   The measures
addressing the incentive environment for private investment are expected
to generate and sustain employment prospects and positive levels of per
capita growth.
122.        Burkina  is  entering  an  uncertain  period  in  embarking
simultaneously on dramatic political and economic reforms while there is
instability in other parts of the Sahel. The major risk is that vested
interests--military, ideological or other--outside the electoral process
could seek to destabilize the reform, or, alternatively, a party with a
different political agenda could be elected. Groups opposed to aspects of
the economic reforms could pressure the Government into slowing the pace
in certain areas, even after the elections. Since Burkina's options do
not include a nominal devaluation, the agreed measures in public finance
especially with respect to the Government wage bill and the labor market
reforms, are a particularly critical part of the adjustment program. The
fact that the Government formulated its economic reform program in an
open, relatively transparent manner, however, has reduced the risk that
necessary reforms will not be done in a timely manner. Moreover, the
Government has already implemented a number of key adjustment measures,
demonstrating its commitment and ability to carry out reforms.   It
initiated a program of democratization without violent pressure from
political opponents and has been using these reforms to legitimize the
economic reform program.



39
123.        A  second risk  is that  timely disbursement  of projected
external assistance will not take place, thus jeopardizing the timely
execution of the adjustment program. The risk of inadequate financing is
being addressed through donor coordination, especially in the context of
the SPA, recent access to the Paris Club and a series of donor
roundtables.   A final risk to reform is that the unfavorable climatic
conditions could become more severe. If so, the Government might seek to
change the pace and substance of some of its reforms, particularly in the
agricultural sector. Yet, at the same time, the SAL ought to increase the
flexibility of the economy to respond to such shocks by supporting
diversification and the accumulation of sufficient external reserves to
maintain the level of imports during periods of poor weather.
IV. RECONMENDATION
124.        I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and I recommend
that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
Presidept
Attachments
Washington, D.C.



't""*>|Wt Ft *1 _to 'wtlttw z ^ ^ ^ w Zt~~~~~~"Itft                      G   "1- 101  4" '_ 
___,~~~~~m~ em:_ mme 13wwn    em~ s                                 s_a^  A
rem    `  sleow  wa   Wm   Wm  s          tm   *r     r*   VI"                        0 9UdUt *". W400
*o*- ru-   *1- £s:- re, VOW *-              m w. row   VsWt (rw                        0) 's"A iDly se  Me  _11
33iS 3             W *    *5   613   *'i   11   01    13_                     *             (ad' e-ms.)w
e,"   vla    VI   *l       *In   va   el    Wu   flu   ow0    s"                             _|0           __m04  et
I    re                 W st   ot   os   $u    Vs   uA-  V s t                      Wm , 4*14 _ _A
*33   @5         W0       S  09    @1   al    SIM   *In    rn                *              (a'. *t*r) t-n_
*It   WR  O's   i's   Vs   Ala  We    Va.  rot  s*6   ii-                      IS U0 OM  sus  mump (M  *AN
t,Oe   cs   rat 6Vow 0ss       116  elf     m r  Am                               anew se  we~ 359 3so  ag's quo
... I       I    -      -     -       t    we   I' _        _   _   _s                  30sAV'se s0   ~wp de_
VIM   ic    :s    e l    '@  OV    wo   0O elm  elm O                 .       -       .         g   ~upg  de
S-,  £3-  rs-  *,-  We-   A-  @01- 3V`- rSl   A*3-  vs                     dem1Sd("  PNOMPORq iS' mQ 's
3's  *-t   0319  *St   Al"   Ot-  M3   ale   3"   *l-   33                   d  *a.egc'a ItS)  omew Ism me
$40 Se) o-n  on" p *AgS
eV1  slW   31    Ala *+0    t   r *   05   r3   50    15                              U came low) jS 'somg
so    e    ro   to    e       row  re    re   *, t.          o 6.. me -wes_t lea" am"
rO   V*   so   t0o t-o *l8-0  O's   V*O    '-l  SI*    Ol                        d-0 4'd  oft 35e signo S
00-  333- rn-  *91-  *t-  rn-  Wu-  Wr1 9P 3- 5W    1`3-                     do emewIpouin.) eso *e..   An_
;3    laoW  *V    O's   0'o   O'    3'    11n  O'   SIS   emt                              5      It(    u"e) 
o- *,O- **wo-  rnt-  lt- Vo - rZt- *-n-  eM-  eec   siw *                            do0tmuogq ai1me de
slo   t    re   We o *   o   re   re    O's   a's   Vs    Ie                               to town  m) 
£*3   3'S  I'S   S'S   @0   54   *t"  *-L  --l   @IU *-g t3 n-w_-
' 30 re   S *S   *O    's  OSl   S'st  0Ws   11   31   *Al 
re   S'S  *t   @*   Oe   rO    VOR  1'S  ilS   Ila   Ws                               aee  P e"no O%'s'I_
Vs   ow   else  ew9   Wu   @35  Ila   SIMa  33  s$w   alet                           ft  (g Is PM)  ewi" laws
Ws   VI   *3    91   VS   rt   ':  0s   eu   re    a's                                                 -dam
so    ra   rin   rns  re:  uw   em   vu'   rsu   em           ASi                                      doom ~  qS
eaISsto em.  emi *,0s: VIM  Wme  aSI  elm  elm   elm   AIM                          (0ms's    V111 wer eM P
e*0  to0   0o-  VS'   *-0   ut-  as-,  a'    6-  Ol    O'                             'O' t-O  ame 6esgu  sow
***   Va.-  Wo.  eIo  to-l  r-  oe.  Vs   Slo-  Ole   916                              '**0 410149ima  ison low
0'1 t-t     1 1    0   0O   &,A. 0'l 53    '4 3    £0                                                   es la"
50£ @- 31    U *1 z UL  6-05  'O   315   033  333   CS 1-1                            '03 *-e      RUau es1
WAS  31 a" 01t   01"   S11  310       e 313   330  113   3   O-U                        * o t _n1    _As's oe_
£13  315  55   CU   313  933  0'W   3S   3S   *33   I3N" au Is *A  em sI
0-9   Wo   I,*   We   *-9   VI    lo-w  1S0   Vt   Ol*   Ole                                              d
0-t   -        -  @-    -t    -&  t-   t-    n-   -'   *-@
to  _m  _M  low
$    _"    t    _t   ^,t   s "a    Mt Ms   Ms    t   Mt    t                               -ttiP MA
_t~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ _                             ?&1_ _
E  o      }020                                       no=5, WA_1 I Inlwvwl               M-t_ two'__s_m
I xeuuy                                     Ott



gs,e111  vI'm   c-,t  weo"  Sot-  SI*i  0smt  s-en   c-rn            som A  m Pos a""  g~iss   lets,w
*im         rem   a          w  eta   em   em    Wm   Wm    11,t1-1t                 goa Xe tPMs 0swa *sebas VW -oem
* oi*       + ro.   cm   e^U  e-              **e  *e    e*e    esz              ~      I        nS~   _s  _ ~z'u
9 Q1        lklt          el"  ' *I*   0'0   0-0   0-0   0-0    6                            d  4p"10-8  0 f_tfOot-t
~ms_- *')
O ig-        c-rn-  s`1-  8-at-  ret   em    cm-  e-   c-1e-   1e                  us ge   ml gamowlss 'A" W e  owe *l
o.g          0l ro oo        oo     oo     oo     o o     oo     o leo                               (     _* _me
00o*e    s*ut  Ole    r                ee    0o    *0    *l        @0                                  6)"I ti"I
00 0-'0l   0'0   00               0    e,      0n   *0    00 0r     0 *o                                   Pt I- OmI
ao s               rn0 0e-       0-0 *I   rel c--oo   rap eo   - o  t osoll n l  o mest   o
ooa          *0    S.C oo        se           el" L    1   VAoo's g.e                                  -     us at .   t e
so           0-0  t0-0    *-n   -s*   r-V   rt    li   *,           e                                   At *-.F n  Om It
oo                 As    e  W10-  4et   u-os   rel   Olt   s'      we                            Om) on" )  s _     CI 1LZ   I
oe .g                     *- es    s A -Oc   s-,  s-c    *-    t-0    *m                          * et       _   1~ mtl
3,0          o'4-   el"-  ve,  Ole   0-0   0-0   *-°   00          °-°                        n    -)-lo"xion   le
os"          e'm   sti    e-" v.  *-    e^    et  0'               S.C                           (we  mt aemw.  "-'_ 
55"         *t-t   ge-t         §1 *t- '-*    *5    50"   C'S    S'S                          It tt)  _tOLi~ *e
&la          1IOm  c-In   ri  *II3   VI    *        *lw  seow    e1                  q cm  $s-1et) 
I'm          tit   PIV   s-ut 1en  g  eWm   r      O       slab   *2                     (V  :0-41) @1Mmus Ito '
c enl         -atn  elm   Web  tWu    rut- 9tc   Wut  Alto   11I                         (am im  $04011t) ON"g Li qg la
-am          gm   rut g-         r.rgn *-   w  r g- r i ru   ra    :                     * I-I1 m1: ,mto  eie.*-       *0
_ia-         ut'a1- s1-t     t- a-t- -e-u     e m- 0e-t tVW         m-0                      0-_op  Is.et". _s aWe-
_-           a-at  ciit  e=    0*t   *-t  elm   tnt  ten   0-0                                     _  "  ld  SON
,u           c1-tm  sl- w        tA m    *- t  g,01 *u:  Wm    O-at                           A   s's 4 l't'tu. O'
3-m          e-gg- am-   tt e-t s - *-in  **,  gm-  1d-                                     egp~st-.t  We .aq *t
_r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~40A sottbI -"t OM"  1 -  U *U *-  -                 -
tosussm,*,ow ddm   d
3-a         ***g   -ost  *+Ut  cu   isa   g-n  s*ts  s-u    sum t5U6U4 _,_                                        *  3
aim        L*U   rW    L-   teA       * eg5        *,Ut                                         69904MIlpf"   aWe* '4
em^         *'f,t *9£t  L5t   rut  $l"          c   flat  g tot  etM                             O5WeO.  t" t       ZOs 
etc          *u n   e    P.C *    m    9 * S 0 "     gs 0l  0   0  0  0          /5 (we,1° ) 9 es"u a"  is"
*.           g -gg   0-us   s-u   "e g    *-a   g*-   e-ht s-n                  (Ow    'e-Ost  t~ wus,t} _OA *0/
tt   u*s t  os    set   elm   i-c1  llIn o      a tet              towt                           ',em a_
tug-         **m-  get-  sm-   4s       1 '1- t- t.-  39t*  0-A-    ,-0-                                  -- j96 VW     0
iso.          -s-   ga    -Us  sss   C-rn  i'    out  *gUt   mus ns~  d55t j.4
g-gt       t        gt   §Ur    em   9        *      r     A5                                     to 9  "*M  P (S*)    "do"- g
*-no z t     ggz  *§   o "   * g   o  s-aum   "-es  c-we   g        -s w                              ftw  _ to-w   'I
cm           re1t  a-    tot   01-0 m   -te  sel  en    es         tst 11 1                                           *-t
e~~£1    U    u-mA  4-  t -~   *-tt *-.e   gus^ t   sues ^W 
mc:          set  bi   teet   *ei act  a-t   msi l t   set
~~~~~~   -                   -~~~~~~*10w    PW    - O*1w
_.^             *t~~g  *f IO'd           15W
n  cas  a           -     s om
f Jo Z a8Bd
I xauuv                                       T7



42                                        Annex I
F_ 11 WM CMPage  3  of  3
S16WAM             00IM   P 70167   (C.ON6l) uI
(.a low e    ?ll*w g8       ureat 9ret)
~~1             t"lPre;-   b.             Puejgsle
lA      190    1*?    116    1409   190    1991   1499   141                199
,,__..... .._.__..._..   . .   ....   .... .    ....
J. OAe,es of P   (n 1)
__.. _.____........ _....
i.     geowg lIt                                      - A             - U.? I                                  .0.0
S. Car 4.44001, 6305. r_ ,                               .      8     .18 4  .12.0  -.17.0  144. .  14.0  -14.0  -14.8             .
a. U? Ceto  lts  (.al..       esmfere)                                 1.0    8.8    6.4    6.6    9.1   91.0    9.8                5.
.     es df fro m                                     0.W0            a       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2    0.6    0.               -0.1 
o. sff ia; l g_t VW  UeST 1a                           ss.a    12.0   10.0      .0    6.      0.o    e.1   4.4        .0            7.e
7. 0ffeiI oe,%, #oft* gd eel i. 1_s                      .      0.1    0.0    0.0   .1,9    4.0    8.0    8.0    8.                 4.0
It. 7ore.w1 abusere Aegar
1. Las'. Regerve (We0 1l.d)                           10.8 3.6   M.$   M.   1M5.                 -     ~               -
W14 (VW  re damgr1e.)                                             4.6    0.4    4.0    4.0 .
S.       t       "*¢l. Gol                                       W.&   W.#   M".&  S".*          -   Im-.M    zo.o                  Pa.* . . .
0. Oe _g Oggwv esg. 0054                                140.2    17.0  37.4   9W.0  ~.        gl    U.3   170.0  1.1                07.0
4. C     tes . *f SWalise of lewte odee                  g.4      4,0    0.?    0.4    4.4    8.5s    .2    8.0    2.1                4.0
L.         lete     r
1. w        ' ge.  Fate   t      'IS)
"m(VD1 enf                             440.0   065.0  0106.0  8.0  019.01  14.0   50.    M-.9  401.0                 111-01
_or (11% em)                              075.1   M.*  37.0  ff.O  0SU.4            - .    .-    -..   -
e     .reft fester                               4"4.0   05.3  80.0  10.0  019.0  14.8   M8   3.0  61.4                       101.5
ltel dff.gsck.,st   W    M  (1U0)                  305.0    45.       .1 44. 4  .4  _. _             -
04 beeft "W cm          SW0)                       10.    11.9    o.  u1.8s  11118-.   17    U0.8  1s0.1  1M1,                 1401.01
Pera W   @80.D. (M d  Iil nel                     130II.4   17.0  M3.0  0005.3 SM.0 05.0818-?                                 400117.Q
to    OP es " . (MS, II ONe                       11U.0   35.6 0011.7 S0.5306.0  5W1.9  110.  am.?  d,.1                      4111.0
1/ etsgreOrDv3. on0. Verelee eq iJO/ii. event  winlAd eUserelge. If 1mgludl differgags betme M"AX IOWAS.U  M. gsintlete  In PW
"W *A  I mm b_d la   , M. of 3*i. differeag  below   tsro5  sesesas evolm"Ad I_              NW *Ad    I   t_i  tO. M.
_a to 199. the deee l.  a erars* of U         lgeerowe pelo la aeS (61.0), ert to be r_tegul_d   i.  d
;e/ S4e latere s U be reIttedmed (64.0).
TO/Ia 105 greAt iagreged bY 030.7 sIll 40Pf  Ia StOe ealtAllggd fOONr (1SW  VAd Oflif) debb at erueee anOe egagelld Preaji  d4b%.
Am'. to*Sa OU la 1906 loot. 55.  ill of soltsllaed #*tur debt gervleg to PrseaOe. WAdM 500 111 duet toeN geaMSetle  bp tess o
re         9p for so errmee  co; P40 O"tubelesp bemesee ee'gbig. beings g ltlinGa dug. r1408 gso).
I          'Coll aers of M., Si tI g  111 ser* S1 rre (t- e 8100l't Wep 0th    a  gre_1).
e erlte.eff.  Its.0 SI ill  d   OWtN"at *       ri  de, to Flom *    b _e h" N .



Annex II
Page 1 of 15
43
Mr. Barber Conable, President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Subject: Letter of Development Policy for 1991-93
Dear Sirs
1.          It is my honor to send you the following statement describing the
development policy that the Government of Burkina Faso proposes to implement
during the 1991 to 1993 period. This policy statement first of all reviews the
overall medium-term objectives and strategy as described in the Structural
Adjustment Program (SAP).  It then analyzes the macro-economic and sectoral
policies adopted by the Government for 1991-93. Finally, in support of those
objectives and reform policies, it presents the Government e request for a
Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) from IDA. The measures constituting the bulk
of the program are summarized in Attachment I to this letter.
I. Medium-Term objectives and Stratega
2.          Aware of the fragility of the country's economic and financial
situation, the Government of Burkina Faso is determined to pursue its adjustment
efforts.  It intends to continue that action as set forth in the medium-term
economic policy framework paper for 1991-93, which was prepared in close
cooperation with the World Bank and International Monetary Fund and submitted to
the Bank's Board on March 5, 1991. The program thus approved by the Bank seeks
to establish the foundations for sustainable economic and social development that
will make it possible over the medium term to improve standards of living for the
country's  inhabitants  through  increased  employmert  and  income,  while
simultaneously promoting the participation of Burkinabe producers in regional
trade and strengthening the country's external financial position. In view of
the constraints regarding domestic and external resources, the Government has set
the following objectives for 1991-93: (1) achieve real GDP growth of some 4% on
average per year which, given the rate of demographic growth, would mean an
increase in per capita income of about It per year; (2) limit inflation, measured
b) the consumer price index, to 4% per year on average; (3) contain the deficit
in the external current account (excluding transfers) to about 14.6% of GDP
during the period; (4) and lastly, eliminate all external arrears as of 1991.
The objective regarding the current account deficit is consistent with the need
to re-establish a viable external position by 1995.
3.          To  permanently  reduce  absolute  poverty,  the  Government  will
simultaneously seek to remove the main constraints on long-term economic growth;
namely, rapid demographic growth, inadequate attention to human reserve
development, and environmental deterioration.
4.          The Government's strategy for attaining these objectives will be
based ons (1) promotion of human resources, in particular through action
targeting basic education and primary health care; (2) development of the private
sector, in particular through a more favorable environment for private investment
and the creation of new jobs, by means of more flexible regulation of trade,
prices and employment and through rehabilitation of the banking system; (3) an
increase in agricultural production, which will continue to be the chief source



Annex II
Page 2 of 15
44
of economic growth and exports; (3) lmproved publie sector management. Theose
structural reforms will be accompanied by macroecenomic management aimed at
restoring macroeconomic equilibria through control of overall demand, and in
particular that of the public sector, so as to promote public and private
savings.
II. The 1991-1993 Reform Proaram
5.          The planned economic reforms by the Government target the following
two main objectives: (1) better management of public financt through reform of
the tax system, restructuring of budget expenditure, a rigorous selection of
public investment projects (PIP), improvement in the statistical base and civil
service reforml (2) stimulation of private investment and initiative through
reforms of public enterprises, reform of the banking sector, deregulation of
trade, a more efficient labor market and legal and administrative reforms.
Before considering these proposed reforms, a brief review of our macroeconomic
policies will be helpful.
A.   Macroeconomig Policies
6.          Financial policies will remain focused on accomplishment of the
medium-term objectives outlined above. The Government will continue its efforts
to improve the overall public finance position, settle its domestic payments
arrears and reduce its comitments vis-&-vis the banking system. Such a strategy
will be supported by a monetary policy placing emphasis on credit to the private
sector while simultaneously maintaining growth of domestic liquidity at a rate
compatible with the objectives regarding economic growth, inflation and foreign
trade.
7.          The authorities have decided to take measures to reduce the public
finance deficit (based on payment order. and excluding grants) by 0.7 percentage
points of GOP by 1993. The Government will therefore exercise moderation in
public spending, which will initially result in an Irregular pattern in current
expenditure, and maintain current expenditures at about 13% of GDP during the
program period. This downward trend in relation to current expenditure should
be pursued so as to encourage the use of national counterpart financing of
investments through external aid, and investment expenditures in the priority
sectors (education, health, internal revenue, infrastructure maintenance).
8.          At the same time, the Government intends to gradually increase public
revenues from 14.8% of GDP in 1990 to 15% in 1993. The consolidated current
budget should thus show a surplus in relative terms of about 1.4% of GDP in 1991,
1.2% of GDP in 1992 and 2.2% in 1993. Investment outlays would remain constant
in the first years of the program at a level consistent with financial
possibilities and the absorptive capacity of Burkina's civil service. As a
result, such outlays would fall in relative terms compared to GDP, from 10.3% in
1991, to about 9% of GDP in 1992, before beginning to edge upward in 1993 when
they would represent about 9.2% of GDP. This overall decline will be achieved
through better selection of investment projects. Much of the financing of the
public investment program would still come from external sources. In total the
overall public finance deflcit, grants included, according to projections and
commitments, would be at about 4.8% of GDP in 1991, 3.2% of GOP in 1992 and 2.5%
in 1993.
9.          The Government has obtained debt rescheduling and cancellation of
CFAF 18.7 billion for arrears as of February 28, 1991, ai.d debt service as of May
31, 1992. The Paris Club has rescheduled CFAF 2.6 billion due in 1991-92 and
CFAP 16.1 billion in arrears. Of this amount, CFAF 3.5 billion and CPAF 0.30
billion represent debt canceled by France and Spain. With the prospect of more
favorable changes in the debt treatment of countries eligible for Paris Club
rescheduling, it was decided to grant only one year of rescheduling to Burkina,
so as to enable it to benefit from the more favorable conditions which could



Annex II
Page 3 of 15
45
apply ln 1992. Persistent cash flow dLfficultLes have resulted in accumulation
of siuable arrears, reaching CFAF 88.6 billlon at the end of 1990, of which CPAF
43.60 bllion was external. As part of the ongoing rehabllitation process and
with a view to ending the bulld up of arrears, the Government wlll continue its
prudent policy of external indebtedness. It will neither contract nor guarantee
any now external borrowings that are not concessional in nature. In additlon,
the proceeds of authorized borrowlngs may finance only projects included in the
public Lavestment program (PIP) agreed with the World Bank. Given Burkina's
limLted finncial capacity and its difficulties in covering its debt service,
those PIP projects that have a recognized economic rate of return or which
respond to prLority social needs will be financed through external aid
exclusively in the form of grants or loans on very soft terme. With respect to
monetary policy the authorities intend to maintain money supply growth at the
same rate as GDP in constant prices. This should permit inflation, as measured
by the GDP deflator, to be contained at about 4% per annum on average, despite
upward pressure on prices which could result from price liberalisation.
B.    First Objective:  More Efficient Manacement of Public Finance
10.         This objective will be attained through:  (1) tax reforms; (2) reform
of the budget's structure and presentation; (3) revision of the PIP; (4)
improvement ln the statistical base, and lastly (5) institutional measures
relating to management of the civil service.
Ycnaaement of Public Finance
1.    Tax Reform and Increases in Budeetary Revenues
11.         This reform seeks to reduce the distortions generated by the current
system, expand the tax base, heighten the elasticity of the tax system and
improve the distribution of the tax burden.
12.         Thanks to the many adjustments made in 1990 to the tax system,
together with new measures, an objective of around 9% annual growth in revenue
for 1991-93 will be achieved, Compared with about CFAF 92 billion in 1990, the
Government has undertaken to collect about CFAF 101 billlon in 1991. For 1991,
the increase will come primarily from the $mpact of measures taken in 1990,
estimated at CrAF 5.2 billion, plus new measures adopted by the Government, which
are expected to bring in some CFAF 4.2 billion.
13.         By way of new measures, the Government has established a mechanism
for allocating to the Treasury 50% of the proceeds from stabilization taxes
levied by the General Stabilization Fund (CGP) on petroleum products.  This
measure takes into account the posted prices for petroleum products and the
charges to be met by the CGP as part of its current role. Furthermore, the
Government has untertaken to complete a study on the current taxation and price-
setting polLcy for petroleum products by March 31, 1992. The objective of this
study is to rationalize the prlcing system and to allow domestic prices to
fluctuate ln response to world prices and transportation costs. The study is to
be completed and its recommendations agreed to with the Bank by September 1,
1992. The recommendations will be applied in conjunction with the budget law of
1993. In addition, the Government has decided that the benefits -- amounting to
CPA? 450 million -- of the debt canceled by France in respect of State-guaranteed
loans to public enterprises would not go to the enterprises; taxes on locally
produced tobacco would be increased by CFAF S per pack of cigarettes, boosting
revenue by CFAF 280 million. In addition, as of 1992, all standardized prices
wlll be replaced by CI values, and transitional tariff adjustments made, pending
the formulation of a new custom tariff to go into effect in conjunction with the
1993 budget. Customs revenue will also be increased following the aimplification
of rates and the number of rates, and the reorganization and computerization of
the General Directorate of Customs. Computerization has already been started
wLth technical assistance from UNCTAD and France.



Annex II
Page 4 of 15
46
14.         Customs exemptions will be further reduced.   To that end, the
Government has already adopted the following measures for 1991:   (1) a more
rigorous control of duty exemptions; (2) elimination of exemptions for public
agencies and enterprises, which have already been replaced in the 1991 budget by
direct subsidies. These subsidies apply to public enterprises providing a public
service, and will be provided on an exceptional basis until measures to be
undertaken as part of other sectoral or macroeconomic reform programs reduce or
eliminate the need for such subsidies; and (3) within the General Directorate of
Customs, an office responsible for the management and monitoring of all other
exemptions has been created (e.g., those subject to the Vienna Convention).  In
consultation with the donors, new procedures will be worked out in 1991 the goal
being to have governed by ordinary law ("r6gime de droit commun") all imports
associated with new public investment projects benefiting from external
financing. These new procedures will become effective under the 1992 budget.
In addition, as of January 1, 1993, when the new tariff goes into effect, customs
exonerations provided to organizations and agencies not subject to the Vienna
Convention, will be eliminated.
1s.         As regards tax collection, the procedures for handling arrears have
been strengthened in the tax collection services in particular. At the end of
1990, the amounts outstanding were estimated at about CFAF 9.6 billion, of which
CFA? 8.7 billion were direct taxes and CPA? 0.9 billion indirect taxes. The 1991
program envisages reduction of arrears payable of about CFAP 5.3 billion, of
which CFAF 4.8 billion are direct taxes and CFAF 0.5 billion indirect taxes. In
order to attain this objective, the Tax Directorate and Treasury will continue
to carry out well-focused collection operations, while expanding withholding at
source for taxes that lend themselves to it. In order to improve tax collection,
an inventory of arrears due from the largest taxpayers has been drawn up. As of
April 1991, computerization of the various offices of the Ministry of Finance
began with assistance from the World Bank, France and UNDP. A system for the
exchange of information between the various collection services will be
established, making it easier to determine tax liabilities and to collect. A
program to expand the geographic areas covered by the collection services will
also be undertaken. Moreover, the Directorate General of Taxes has begun studies
on taxation of the informal sector, rationalization of the income tax system, and
institution of a value-added tax (VAT), the findings of which will make it
possible to improve tax yields. The draft VAT law will be ready by July 31,
1991.
2.    Restructurinq of Budgget Expenditure
16.         As for public expenditure, the Government's medium-term objectives
are to continue its efforts to reduce the weight of the public sector in the
economy, making it more efficient, and reallocating resources in favour of
priority sectors.   A rigorous policy to improve the structure of budget
expenditures will be pursued. For 1991 public expenditure and net borrowings
will be limited to about CIAF 161.3 billion; i.e., the equivalent of 23.5% of
GDP. Of this total, current expenditure will account for CFA? 91.7 billion;
i.e., about 13.3% of GDP, while capital expenditure and net borrowings will total
CIAF 69.6 billion; i.e., 10.3% of GDP, including about CIAF 19.4S billion for
restructuring the banking system. Compared with the actual expenditures expected
for 1990, total expenditure and net borrowings will show a 15.S% increase as a
result of the costs of reorganizing the banking system, which accounts for almost
the entire increase. If the costs of restructuring the banking system and of the
voluntary departures from the civil service in 1991 are excluded, current
expenditures will fall by about 1.7% in 1991 (13% of GDP) and will continue to
decline reaching about 11.4% of GDP in 1993. The first step in the restructuring
of public expenditures will consist of a reduction in the share of the wage bill
which has becom excessive in recent years. In this respect, the objectives in
the PFP consist of going from about 61% in 1991, to about 59% in 1992 and 1993.
At the same time, allocations to the priority sectors will continue to rise. The
sectors ln question in 1991 are education, health, and the Ministry of Finance's



Annex II
Page 5 of 15
47
revenue services. As of 1992, agriculture and environment will also be accorded
more favorable budgetary as priority sectors.
17.         One objective of the restructuring of budget expenditure will be to
increase the share of expenditure on equlpment, personnel and services for the
three priority ministries. Indeed, the expenditure on equipment and supplies by
the Ministry of Health and social Action will rise from CFAF 1.1 billion in 1990
to about CFAF 1.2 billion in 1991, CFAP 1,3 billion in 1992, and CFAF 1.5 billion
in 199.1, increases of 16%, 8% and 9% respectively. In constant prices, these
represent increases of about 14%,  6% and 6% respectively.   For the same
expenditure categories, the Ministry of Primary Education will also receive
substantial increases; from CFAF 158 million in 1990, the Ministry will be
budgetted about CFAF 330 million in 1991, CFAF 516 million in 1992, and CFAF 600
million in 1993, increases of about 109%, 56%, and 16% respectively (constant
price increases of about 106%, s3% and 13%). Expenditure on services (including
maintenance) will increase considerably, with health allocations to increase from
CFAF 147 million in 1990, to about CFAF 244 million in 1991, CFAP 289 million in
1992, and CFAF 358 million in 1993, almost tripled in 3 years. Allocations for
primary education will increase from CFAP 33 million in 1990 to about CFAF 145
million in 1991, CFAF 394 million in 1992 and 1993 respectively, equivalent to
a quadrupling between 1990 and 1993. These increases will assure appropriate
levels of maintenance for existing infrastructure.
18.         As for personnel expenditures, in the case of the Health Ministry,
appropriations will move from CFAF 6.5 billion in 1990 to CFAF 6.4 billion for
1991, to about CFAF 6.6 billion in 1992 and CFAF 6.8-billion in 1993, equivalent
to an annual increase of about 3%.  Since salary increments are frozen and
voluntary departures will be replaced by younger and less costly staff, in
constant prices, personnel costs will grow at slightly more than 3% per annum for
the period. For primary education, personnel costs will increase from CFAF 9.5
billion in 1990 to about CFAF 10.1 billion in 1991, CPAP 10.4 billion in 1992,
and CFAF 11.4 billion in 1993. This represents an increase of about 1000 staff
annually (currently 7700 in total) or about 13%, 11% and 10% increases for the
1991-93 period.
19.         With regard to the Ministry of Finance, special attention will be
paid to capital and operating expenditures on personnel, equipment and services
over the next three years particularly for the tax collection   agencies.
However, detailed targets have not been set. The same applies to the other two
sectors for 1991 (agriculture and environment), though they will be included in
the Government's priorities as of 1992. The objectives for these two sectors
will be specified in the sector programs now being prepared.
2.1   Structure and presentation of budoet expenditures
20.         Improvement in the efficiency of the budget expenditure proceas will
require a better alignment of resource allocation with specific objectives. This
calls for improved budget preparation and monitoring, for both capital and
operating expenditure.   Accordingly, the Government intends to reform the
structure and presentation of its budget, to improve its preparation, and the
monitoring of its expenditures. Budgetary coverage will be widened to include
parafiecal taxes and a number of financial operations currently recorded in
special off-budget Treasury accounts.
21.         The essential objective of reforms to the structure and, presentation
of the budget is to be able to determine the real deficit from Government
operations within a coherent framework respecting, to the extent possible, the
principles of appropriate coverage and consolidation of spending records. This
framework is formed on the one hand by the budget nomenclature and on the other
by public accounting regulations and requirements.   In this respect, the
Government undertakes to introduce a public accounting framework by August 1,
1991 and to submit the 1992 budget using the new budget nomenclature developed



Annex II
Page 6 of 15
48
with IMF assistance. Between now and the end of June 1991 the Ministry of
Finance will ensure that   expenditures  for the priority ministries are
reclassifLed in accordance with the new nomenclature. By the end of August 1991,
the budgetary authorities will present investments, including projects, in a
supplementary budget in accordance with the new budget nomenclature.
22.         Determination of the real deficit requires a precise determination
of Internal arrears. This has to be based on closed and Zinal accounts. To this
end the Government will promulgate an Account Settlement Law for the fiscal 1990
budget no later than the submission of the 1992 budget. It will also, prior to
June 1991, take into account the findings of the cross debt study. As of June
1991, the Government will focus on clearing the Treasury's arrears via-a-vis the
CNSS by December 1991. In the same way, the Government intends to conclude an
agreement with the CNSS no later than July 31, 1991, setting out the term and
modalities for repayment of a CNSS loan to the Government for the costs of
banking restructuring.
23.         The Government undertakes to prepare before November 30, 1991, a
report on execution of the 1990 budget, including the special Treasury accounts,
CARFO and the list of unpaid obligations (or payment arrears to the end of 1990).
Also by the end of November 1991, the off-budget and special project accounts
will be incorporated into the budget. To do this, a scnaedule will be prepared
for the closing of accounts with deposits remaining as of June 30, 1990, on a
case-by-case basis. A document presenting an overview of the State's resources
and financial ccmmitments (budget, special accounts, budgetary annexes, budgets
of autonomous agencies and operations financed through external aid) will be
prepared and appended to the budget. Furthermore, the provisions of Decree
69/197 of September 19, 1969 regarding the financial system, are to be
implemented, in particular its Article 25 relative to the designation of the
Ministry of Finance as the sole manager of all public spending.   In this
connection, in March 1991 the Go-*,rnment approved a measure abrogating, as of
January 1, 1992, all provisions contrary to the principle of sole manager set
forth in the financial system, in particular those contained in Kiti AN V -
003/PP/PLAN - COOP of December 10, 1987. At the same time, a new centralised
information system will make it possible to monitor all of the State,s financial
operations. As well, specific procedures have been established so that each
foreign loan agreement and foreign loan drawdown is approved by the Ministry of
Finance.
2.3   Priority proargam
24.         The three priority ministries (Education, Health and Finance) will
establish, by June 30, 1991, program objectives (with physical components
detailed) for 1991, 1992 and 1993, together with the relevant budgets. The
ministries of agriculture and environment will submit their proposed budgets for
fiscal 1992 and 1993 by November 30, 1991.
2.4   Monitorina of budget execution
25.         The Government is aware that implementation of the SAL will require
close monitoring of budget execution. Accordingly, a computerized management
system will be set up starting in April 1991, with assistance from several
donors. This will allow more effective monitoring of budgetary expenditures and
revenues.
26.         For capital expenditures, the Government will strengthen its ability
to monitor public investments by improving procedures, and integrating the
operations of the computerized project bank in the Planning Ministry (BIP), with
the computerized project monitoring service in the Presidency (SISP). The now
structure will be in place as of September 30, 1991.



Annex II
Page 7 of 15
49
27.         The cumbersome nature of budgetary procedures and the lack of
qualified staff in the Directorates of Administrative and Financial Affairs
(DAAFs) in the technical ministries are significant in limiting the Government's
capacity to absorb external financing. To remedy this situation, the procedures,
and training programs for the DOFs, and the Directorates of Research and
Planning (DEPs) will be studied and redesigned. A standard organization will be
adopted for the DAAFs.   In the course of fiscal year 1992, the priority
ministries would be able to try out this standard organization before it is
instituted government-wide. The pilot operation will be started as of June 1991.
The terms of reference for a study of credit management procedures will be drawn
up for the negotiations on the structural adjustment credit.
3.    Prooramming of Public Investments
28.         The Burkina public investment program (PIP) is more than 90% financed
by external assistance.  In the Government's consolidated budget (TOWn), public
investment expenditures over the years have displayed a highly inconsistent
pattern. From CFAP 54.5 billion in 1989, they dropped to CFAF 49.5 billion in
1990, and increased in 1991 to CFAF 70.8 billion. The estimate for 1992 will
take into account actual expenditures for 1991.  On this basis, and applying
investment criteria described below, the projections suggest budgetary
allocations for public investment of about CFAF 65 billion for 1992 and CFAF 73
billion for 1993. The Government's ab3orptive capacity is relatively low. On
average only 65% of the capital budget has been implemented, despite full
financing for all projects in the budget.  In the past, project selection,
budgeting, and aid coordination have been deficient. At the beginning of the
1980s, and notwithstanding opposition from Burkina Is main aid partners, including
the World Bank, the Government embarked on a large-scale investment program, of
which numerous projects were economically unjustified. Several of the projects
failed to meet their objectives due to inadequate rates of return or lack of
external or domestic financing to cover recurrent costs. These deficiencies were
particularly crucial for road maintenance.
29.         In 1990, with help from the World Bank, the Government undertook a
major review of its investment program. This led to a number of projects with
low projected rates of economic return being dropped, including the Tambao
railway, the CIMAT cement project, and the low cost public housing program. The
Government and the Bank reached a consensus on the PIP, for 1990 and 1991 and a
three-rear rolling public investment program has been prepared with assistance
from the World Bank and UNDP. The IMF will also provide support in consolidating
the PIP and the recurrent budget as of fiscal 1992. The Government will continue
to develop more accurate estimates of the recurrent costs connected with public
investments, and of their budgetary implications. The Government, by November
30, 1991, will prepare a first set of recurrent cost estimates for all projects
exceeding CPAP 1 billion in total cost which are due to be completed in 1991.
By June 30, 1991, the financing requirements of the major programs in the
priority sectors will be prepared. As of 1992, only projects with detailed
recurrent cost estimates will be included in the PIP.
4.    Social Dimensions of Adiustment and Imnrovement of the Statistical
Bam
30.         Improving the quality of statistical information on the economy it
one of the Government's major concerns. As of June 1991, a program to strengthen
statistical services will be started in the National Institute of Statistics and
Demography (ISD).  The capacity to analyze socio-economic data will also be
reinforced through the CEDRES at the University of Ouagadougou. In order to
monitor progress in the well-being of different categories of the population, the
Government of Burkina has developed, as part of structural adjustment, a socLal
development program, of which one of the principle objectives will be the
carrying out of a Priority Survey intended to identify most vulnerable groups
requiring special programs to improve their conditions, and regularly producing



Annex II
Page 8 of 15
50
standard social indicators for them as a basis for a national Poverty Profile.
In the same vein, the Government undertakes to increase budgetary allocations for
the priority sectors, notably health and primary education, beginning wlth the
revised 1991 budget.   As a priority, these increases will be allocated to
essential drugs, equipment, and school canteens amongst identified social groups;,
in accordance with Attachment 2. Finally, the Government will strengthen budget
monitoring, and ensure the implementation of priority actions, to be identified
by the Priority Survey, aimed at improving household living conditions. With
World Bank assistance, the Government will also identify a core of key social
programs in several ministries, which would be closely monitored In the 1991-93
budgets.
S.    Restructuring of the Civil Service
31.         Reform of the civil service is necessary in order to create the
conditions for greater efficiency in administration and better resource use. To
achieve these objectives,  the Government plans to:   (1) computerize the
management of the civil service; (2) conduct a census of public employees in
order to weed out those that are redundant; (3) undertake a study of all existing
positions to verify the need for their existence and the need for strengthening
certain services; and (4) rationalize career management.
5.1   Information management
32.         The first problem to be solved is the establishment of an information
management system which responds to Payroll needs and the management needs of the
ministry of the Civil Service, going beyond administration of individual staff
records.   A detailed computerization process together with a schedule is
described in Attachment 1.
5.2   Census of Public emplovees
33.         To establish a sound basis for the personnel management system a
central staff register will have to be set up that is consistent with the payroll
records and includes the data that is presently lacking (identity and profile of
staff, geographic and administrative assignments). The Government intends to
reconstitute the central and historical records on the basis of the payroll,
after which the utility of a census in the field will need to be assessed. This
work will be done by December 31, 1992. For the Ministry of Finance to regain
control over payroll processing, a prototype for payroll processing will be set
up in the Payroll Directorate no later than December 31, 1992. This prototype
will be immediately usable in preparing personnel budget estimates in conjunction
with the Ministry of the Civil Service. The decision on actual transfer of the
latter to Payroll will be taken in the context of the Ministry of Finance
computerization program.
5.3   Staff management system
34.         The Government is aware of the continuing problems with staff
management. Because of these problems, a study will be done of compensation,
promotion, staffing charts and training systems in order to introduce management
by position in the 1993 budget, and to prepare in parallel, revised staff
regulations and a civil service reform so as to adapt them to this new management
system.
35.         The purpose of these reforms is to upgrade the efficiency of
government while reducing the total wage bill. The latter should drop from CFAF
57 billion (1990 commitments) to about CFAF 54.7 billion in 1991 and CFAF 53.8
billion in 1993 and continue to follow this trend without affecting the
recruitment levels set for the priority ministries. The resources needed for
achieving the above objectives will be obtained essentially from a reduction in
military personnel expenditure, early retirements and replacement of retirees in



Annex II
Page 9 of lS
51
the priority sectors by younger staff costing less; elimination of the 50% of the
housing subsidy to the Housing Fund; clarification of the status of temporary
staff and their removal from the civil service payrolls, improving otaff
management by position; and a freeze on salary increments in the civil service
until 1993.  During the program period 1991-1993, with the exception of the
Ministry of Primary Education, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of
Finance, recruitment into professional schools of administration will be strictly
limited in order to provide adequate space for the priority sectors.   The
Government will take appropriate measures to protect in the future the savings
thus achieved, and thereby prevent any sharp rise in the wage bill.
C.    Second Obiective of the Reform Proaram
36.         The second broad objective of the structural adjustment program aims
at stimulating domestic and foreign private investment in Burkina through reforms
of the public enterprise sector, restructuring of the banking sector,
liberalization of trade, improved functioning of the labor market and reform of
the legal and administrative framework.
1.    Reform of the Public Enterprise Sector
37.         Ever since 1983, reform of management of the country's public
enterprises has been one of the Government's priorities. Despite these efforts,
however, the sector is still not producing adequate results and some of the most
important enterprises continue to have serious problems.   Accordingly, the
Government has decided to reduce its influence in the sector by cutting its
capital participation in financially profitable commercial and industrial
enterprises to a maximum of 25%, and by liquidating others. Similarly, it will
limit its participation to a maximum of 25% in all enterprises whose operations
are included in the PIP, with any exceptions to be examined in consultation with
the World Bank. The Government has already privatized SICOZAF and liquidated
three other enterprises (COFA, ONERA, and SERTH FASO). In addition, at the end
of 1990 it set up a Privatization Commission charged with preparing a strategy
for disengagement from the public enterprise sector by the State. This strategy
consists of three components. First, it proposes that a clear distinction be made
between enterprises with a clear public service role and those which are
industrial and/or commercial in nature (EPICs). The former will be reclassified
as public service establishments (EPAs) and will be funded from the Government
budget, while the latter will be converted into state enterprises (Sis) or mixed
enterprises (SEMs) depending on whether Government owns all or part of the
capital stock.   The SEMs will then be divided into three sub-categoriest
enterprises in which the Government will retain a majority interest (public
utilities), those which need to be rehabilitated prior to privatization, and
those which are privatizable as they are. Those requiring rehabilitation will,
before December 31, 1991, be placed under receivership as described in paragraph
39 below. After a certain period, but before December 31, 1993, those which have
been rehabilitated will then be privatized, while the others will be liquidated.
38.         The second component of the strategy consists of the steps designed
to subject all public enterprises (with the exception of EPAs) to private
comercial law.   In order to prepare for divestiture by the State, public
enterprises will be placed under the same conditions as private ones, with
respect to their operations and to the regulations governing them. From the
operations standpoint, these conditions includes elimination of State guarantees
for any loans granted to public enterprises by banks (effective as of 1990)1
conversion of tax and customs exemptions granted to public enterprises into
direct budgetary subsidies (effective as of January 1991) and elimination in 1991
of all direct subsidies, except for public service enterprises (SONABEL, ONEA,
ONATEL, ONP); the subsidy to SONABEL will be eliminated once petroleum product
pricing policy is rationalized to reflect world market prices; and elimination
of cross debts between State, public enterprises and banks. To determine the
amount of cross-debt involved, the cross-debt study will be completed by June 30,



Annex II
Page 10 of 15
52
1991. All cross debts will be settled by December 31, 1991.
39.         With respect to the legal context, the Government has decided to
subject public enterprises to the same regulations as private enterprises. To
this end, by July 31, 1991, the Government will adopt an appropriate law, a draft
version of which has been prepared. As of the law's approval, the necessary
steps will be taken to modify the individual statutes of public enterprises
within one year, so as to ensure they are in conformity with the new law. This
law will be approved and in effect before December 31, 1991. It will require,
inter alia that the composition of the boards of directors of public enterprises
reflect the capital structure of the company and will stipulate that any such
company in difficulty is to be placed under receivership with a view to
rehabilitation, or liquidation for enterprises majority owned by the state.
Finally, to complete the legal framework applicable to private enterprises in
difficulty, the Government has already drafted a law that it expects to adopt
between now and July 31, 1991. The purpose of this law is to make it possible
to institute judicial proceedings for the restructuring of any company that is
in financial difficulty, though not yet necessarily in need of liquidation. This
will then allow either rehabilitation or court-ordered liquidation.
40.         The third component of the divestiture strategy concerns the legal
and institutional framework for privatization and its implementation. In this
connection the Government envisages promulgating before March 31, 1992 a law on
privatization, and legislation relating to the sale of Its holdings in public
enterprises. From an institutional point of view, it envisages establishing
before that date a Privatization Committee that will be responsible for
implementing and monitoring the divestiture program. It is intended that this
committee seek local or foreign private expert assistance for selling off the
State's holdings. In addition, a privatization schedule has been drawn up for
privatizable enterprises. In accordance with this schedule, the process would
begin with those enterprises that are financially and economically capable of
generating a return and therefore more attractive for sale. The Government has
set itself the target of privatizing at least 12 enterprises during the period
covered by the SAL.   The Government is nevertheless aware of the need to
establish a regulatory and incentive framework conducive to private initiative
so as to assure success of the divestiture/privatisation program.
41.         Finally, the Government will forward to the World Bank no later than
June 1, 1991, the proposed terms of reference for the studies on the role of
OFNACER, COP and CSPPA so that the planned studies can be promptly started.
These studies will be completed no later than December 31, 1991. Their results
will then be discussed with the World Dank and implementation of their
recommendations will commence on May 31, 1992.
42.         Actuarial and Manaement Studies of the CNSS and CARFO.   The
situation of the two social security funds -  CNBa and CAM  -- concerns
Government. These two institutions are responsible inter alia for managing
social security, CNSS for private sector retirees and CARFO for public sector
retirees.   Their impact on the medium and long-term budget is therefore
significant, which io why the Government has consldered it essential that
actuarial and management studies be done for both institutions starting on
November 1, 1991. These studies will be completed before June 1, 1992, and their
recommendations will be implemented imnediately thereafter.
2.    Reform of Dankina Sector
43.         The Government will apply a monetary policy compatible with its
adjustment objectives. Accordingly, the growth of credit and the money supply
will be contained within bounds consistent with price stability and balance of
payments equilibrium. Within the context of the reforms recently adopted by the
West African Monetary Union (WAMU) (September 1989), the authorities will support
a tightening of banking supervision having already abolished sectoral credit



Annex II
Page llof 15
53
allocations. one of the fundamental objectives of the September 1989 reforms
adopted by the WAMU Council of Ministers aims at gradually replacing
administrative control of the currency and credit by a system of more indirect
regulation based on market forces. This will make it possible to improve the
conduct of monetary policy, promote mobilization of savings, enhance the quality
of the deposit banks' portfolio and foster the financing of the most productive
sectors of the economy. Moreover, the improvement of the State's flnancial
position, the reduction of its role and the prospect of better results from the
public and parapublic sectors, will mean that more credit will be available for
the private sector which is the vehicle for sustainable economic growth.
44.         In order to reshape the banking system and, ultimately, strengthen
financial intermediation, the Government has undertaken to completely restructure
the banking system. It has decided to reduce its participation and that of its
agencies in the capital of banks to a maximum of 25%. As regards the banks
themselves, the Government has already placed the BND-B and the URZBA/BFCI/CAI
group under receivership so as to halt the deterioration in their financLal
position and prepare the way for their rehabilitation. It has also adopted the
following measures: (1) cleaning BIB's balance sheet as of September 30, 1991
and recapitalizing the bank, with the Government's participation reduced to 25%,
by December 31, 1991; (2) cleaning BND-B's balance sheet and carrying out its
rehabilitation by opening its capital to private participation; and (3) cleaning
of UREBA's, BFCI's and CAi's balance sheets, merging of the three institutions
and opening of the bank's capital to private participation. In order to achieve
the privatisation goals set for the group of banks to be restructured, aside from
the BIB, the Government will undertake a search for private partners, based on
technical dossiers it will prepare before June 30, 1991. A private partner with
technical expertise in banking will support the management of each of these banks
in order to avoid past mistakes. This search should be completed by March 31,
1992 in order to allow the startup of the new banks before June 30, 1992. Should
the solutions envisaged for the banks, other than the BIB, prove impossible to
implement by the date set, the Government will propose an acceptable alternative
to the World Bank before May 31, 1992, to be implemented before June 30, 1992.
45.         The volume of bad debts built up over the years is disturbing.
Accordingly, the banks will constitute adequate provisions, and will intensify
their recovery efforts, especially with the biggest debtors. In late 1990, the
Government oet up an Office for the Recovery of Bad Debts, attached to the Office
of the President of the Republic. With a view to making it operational, the
Government has appointed the management and staff, and undertakes to establish
the operating procedures by no later than July 31, 1991. The office will draw
extensively on private institutions to enhance its effectlveness in achieving the
recovery goals that have already been agreed on by the authorities in the context
of the PFP. By the end of 1991 the office is expected to recover about CFAF 0.8
billion; CFAP 1.8 billion by the end of 1992; CFAF 1.8 billion by the end of
1993; CYA" 1.1 billion by the end of 1994, and 1.1 billion by the end of 1995,
makLng a total of CFAF 6.6 billion in all. Remuneration of the Office's staff,
and of the prlvate institutions who work with it, will be tied to the results
obtained.
46.         To prevent deterioration of the banks' portfolios in the future, the
State will refrain from any intervention in lending decisions by the banks.
47.         With a view to reducing its direct or indirect participation in the
capital of the BICIA and the CNRQ, to no more than 25% before December 31, 1992,
the Government will initiate discussions with private partners before
December 31, 1992. In the course of 1991, it will also settle the debts of the
postal checking system (CCP) to the banks, and of the Treasury to the Caisse
Rationale d'zpargne and to the CCPs.   Finally, with the aim of improving
financial intermediation in Burkina, the Government will undertake separate
studies on the possibility of converting the CCP into a financial Lnstitution
under the BCZAO aegis, and on nonbank financial instLtutions. The terms of



Annex II
Page 12 of 15
54
reference for these studies will be drawn up by September 30, 1991 and the
studies themselves are to be ready by the end of June 1992. Their conclusions
will be discussed with the World Bank and implementation of their recommendations
is to commence before January 31, 1993 for the CCPs, and February 28, 1993 for
non-banking financial institutions.
3.    Trade Liberalization
3.1   Simplification of imoort and exoort proceduges and removal of
quantitative restrictions
48.         In order to eliminate Burkina's trade policy distortions,  the
Government has recently decided to simplify the regulatory framework in order to
establish an environment conducive to private initiative and investment. The
administrative procedures will be eased and the customs tariff rationalized in
regard to foreign trade; the price controls on domestic trade will be abolished;
the roles of the support institutions for the private sector, such as the CBC,
ONAC and the Chamber of Commerce will be reviewed to make them more efficient in
performing their assigned roles; as for the labor market, procedures will be
simplified and rigidities eliminated; and finally, the legal and administrative
framework will be reformed. The specific measures envisaged are enumerated in
Attachment 1 to this letter.
49.         The Burkina authorities have already taken significant steps toward
liberalization of the economy.   This effort will be continued in a more
simplified, transparent and rational context, while taking into account the
constraints of local industry and the vital necessity that it be able to adapt
and ready itself for free competition with external industries. Accordingly,
import and export procedures will be substantially simplified, quantitative
restrictions will be removed and import tariffs entirely rationalized.   The
different import procedures and formalities (API, ASI, AEI and technical
approvals) will be consolidated into one single formality known as the "Special
import Authorization" (ASI), while the list of products kept subject to this
authorization will be published and made publicly available. This simplification
is to be effected no later than August 1, 1991.   At the same time as the
instruments restricting freedom of trade are merged into one, the institutions
involved will also be reviewed. Thus the complex procedure involving the Chamber
of Commerce and various directorates of the Ministry of Trade and other
ministries (technical approvals) will be simplified as of August 1, 1991, by
means of the establishment of a single window for imports. With regard to the
elimination of the quantitative restrictions currently covered by the special
import authorizations, the process of reducing the list of products subject to
the new special import authorization (ASI) will focus on the 43 products still
subject to various old import formalities. As of June 30, 1992, 24 products
groups will be freed from the ASI requirement, leaving 19 product groups still
subject to it. As of December 31, 1992, a further four product groups will be
freed, which will leave just 15, 10 of which will be freed with effect from
December 31, 1993. Only the following five products groups will then still be
subject to ASIs   small-mesh fishing nets, explosives made from inflammable
materials, arms and munitions, military effects and uniforms, certain juices and
plant extracts and pharmaceutical products. As is evident from this list, the
Government is not seeking to restrict the freedom of trade in principle, but is
rather guided by concern for the environment (small-mesh nets), security
considerations (explosives, arms, munitions, military uniforms), and by health
concerns (juices, plant extracts and pharmaceuticals).
3.2   Rationalization of customs tariff
50.         To avoid too sudden a shock to local industry resulting from the
elimination of quantitative restrictions, if necessary an ajustment of customs
tariffs will also be implemented at the same time as the elimination of special
import authorizations, for products entering the country in competition with



Annex II
Page 13 of 15
55
items produced locally. In this case, these temporary tariff measures will be
used to maintain the level of real effective protection pending a reform of the
customs tariff to commence as of January 1, 1993. For certain of these products,
the control procedure on import margins will also be maintained with a view to
enabling local industry to adapt to international competition.   Finally, to
combat tax evasion, the Government, with the assistance of foreign specialists,
will put into effect no later than December 31, 1991, a pre-shipment inspection
of quantity, quality and price of imports.
3.3   Liberalization of price control system
S1.         As for the price control system, the Government intends to pursue
price liberalization. To this end, the text establishing the principle and the
price control procedures for locally produced goods was abolished by Zatu, March
28, 1991.   As to the products subject to control of profit margins, a schedule
for reduction of products subject to control has been agreed upon. Thus, of the
44 products still subject to this control, eight will be freed by December 31,
1991, at the latest. This will leave 36. On July 31, 1992, 19 products are to
be freed, leaving only 17. On December 31, 1992, a further 12 products are to
be freed, which will leave five still subject to control (tomatoes, tires and
inner tubes, batteries, paper and cardboard, and petroleum products). Finally,
as of December 31, 1993,. only one item would remain under profit margin control;
namely, petroleum products, pending the conclusions of the study on pricing of
those products (refer to para. 13).
4.    Improvement of the Functioning of the Labor Market
52.         The Labor Code and other legislation governing employment will be
revised in order to simplify labor market regulations. In particular, the hiring
monopoly of the National Employment Promotion Office (ONPE) will be abolished no
later than December 31, 1991 and a new draft Labor Code will be forwarded to the
World Bank prior to its submission to the Council of Xinisters. The organization
and role of the ONPE will be redefined, following a study done with ILO support,
the objective being to enable it to perform its function more effectively in the
new context created by adjustment. The reorganized ONPE will be operational with
effect from April 1992. To encourage private investment, the Government will
review the existing procedures for prior investigation of all foreign investors.
Presently, without the findings of this investigation, the legal formalities for
setting companies up cannot be completed. Often the means available to the
services responsible for performing these procedures do not permit them to carry
them out with due thoroughness and promptness. Accordingly, the procedures known
as the "enqu&te de moralit6" -- the principle of which is not questioned -- will
no longer be a prerequisite and the Government will propose to the World Bank an
acceptable alternative before June 30, 1991.
5.     Reform of the Loal and Administrative Framework
53.               Burkina is currently in the midst of both a political and an
economic transition.   A d-aft constitution has been drawn up and will be
submitted to referendum for approval in June 1991. Consequently, the current
arevolutionaryo legal and administrative superstructure would be replaced by a
constitutional system ensuring the independence of the legislative, executive and
judicial branches. In parallel, implementation of the economic policy framework
will lntroduce fundamental changes in the Burkinabb economy by ensuring
liberalization and a greater degree of openness to the outside world. It is in
thLe politlcal and economic context that the Burkinabe authorities propose to
place the reform of the legal and administrative framework.
54.         In Burkina, legal, legislatlve and administrative texts are both
numerous and uncoordinated. In addition, they are not systematically published;
thL  situation ls aggravated by the fact that the Official Gazette (Journal
Of, clel - J.O.) Ls published at Lrregular intervals. The Government has decided



Annex II
Page 14 of 15
56
to reform the country's legal and administrative framework. This reform will
consist of two parts: a reorganization of the legal system, and the compilation
and codification of all legal texts.
55.         With respect to the former, the Government confirmed that the
constitutional referendum which will take place on June 2, 1991 will be followed
by a complete reorganization of the judicial system. The Supreme Court, the
creation of which is one of the principal requirements under the new
constitution, will be an essential element in the process of judicial reform.
56.         As for the compilation and codification of legal texts, in the first
instance the objective is to identify and create an inventory of all legislative
texts and legal rulings in effect in Burkina, with a view to creating a legal
data base. This would be followed by a reconciliation and progressive updating
of the texts, eventually publishing them with legal force and authority.
57.         A  prerequisite  to  success  for  such  an  undertaking  iu  the
establishment of a National Commission for the recording and codifying of
legislation.   This national commission of legal experts will preferably be
supervised by a senior official of the Ministry of Justice. It will be made up
of a permanent nucleus of high-level national jurists assisted by three senior
expatriate jurists each one having had appropriate experience in judicial reform.
58.         The codification work currently under way (Investment Code, Labor
Code, Agrarian and Land Reform) will continue without awaiting the establishment
of the national commission. It is intended, however, that the commission will
play a more active role in the proparation of legal legislation and become in
effect an integral part of these services in the Ministry of Justice responsible
for assuring the conesitency of legal legislation. In order to allow its work
to begin as soon as possible, the establishment of the commission will take place
no later than May 31, 1991.
59.         The implementation of agrarian and land tenure reforms, started in
1984, has run into difficulties. It has created a feeling of insecurity amongst
landowners, and amongst the banks, which will not accept land as financial
security. This situation is to be remedied by means of the adoption, by June 15,
1991, of a law guaranteeing security of land ownership, as well as a decree
applying it ln all respects, rural, urban in mining and in forestry.
60.         Dy December 31, 1991, the codification process will result in
adoption of simplified procedures for the establishment of new enterprises in
Burkina Faso. It will also lead to reform of the Commercial Code, which will be
completed no later than December 31, 1992. Accordingly, one of the priorities
for the national codification commission will be revision of the Commercial Code.
61.         The Government is aware of the deficiencies in its system for
dle_minating legislation and legal regulations. This is the function of the
Jouznal Offvlael (J.O.), which is put out at irregular intervals. Accordingly,
the authorLtLes accordingly undertake to do everything possible (between now and
June 1992) to remedy this state of affairs. The fAct is that the codification
process will not accomplish its objectives if there is not an adequate forum for
official publication of its results.  The Government intends, therefore, to
approach the World Bank for assistance in reorganizing those services responsible
for the publishing of official acts and texts.



Annex II
Page 15 of 15
57
62.         Finally, the Government will set up a permanent technical secretariat
attached to the SAL Interministerial Cosmission, before June 15, 1991. The chief
function of this permanent secretariat will be supervising the application of the
new legislation, and on behalf of the Government, monitoring implementation of
the SAL, while also serving as an administrative appeal authority for private
citizens dissatlsf Led with the way in which the SAL program is being implemented.
The Minister of Finance
Bintou SANOGO*



Attachment 1
58                          Page I of 11
IRINA-FASO
SUMWUUIt OF THE PRINCIPAL SAL I MEASURES 1991-93
A.    Firgt Objective
Reform of the structure, presentation and monitoring of the capital
and operation budgets to improve resource allocation and utilization
Ln light of economic and social priorLties.
1.          Structure and Preentation of Budoets:
1.1   Budoet coverage:
1.1.1       Capital exoenditure
(a)         Breakdown of personnel and goods and services
expenditures   into   expenditures   on   public
investment and public sector operating costs
(June 1991).
(b)         Integratlon of capital expenditure,  including
projects, in a budget annex using the new budget
nomenclature (July-August 1991).
1.1.2       Arrear%
(a)        More precLse estimates of lnternal arrears with
their integration into the budget (results of
analysis of cross-debt study), with a vlew to
reevaluating the real deficit (June 1991).
(b)         Settlement of arrears to the CNSS:
(i)   Sign   an   agreement   with   the   CNSS
establishing the modalities and timing for
repayment of arrears (July 31, 1991).
(ii)  Settle arrears to the CNSS (December 31,
1991).
(iii) Sign   an   agreement   with   the   CNSS
establishing the modalities and timing for
repayment of the bank restructuring Loan
(July 31, 1991).
1.1.3       Prepare a status report on execution of the 1990
budget including the status of the Treasury
accounts, CARFM included, and the list of unpaid
invoices (November 30, 1991).
1.1.4       Integrate off-budget accounts and special project
accounts.   Preparation of a timetable for the
case-by-case   elimination   of   the   accounts
remaining at June 30, 1991, on the basis of the
texts establishing these accounts and their
status (November 30, 1991).



Attachment 1
59                         TPage 2 of 11
1.1.S       Closure of budgetary accounts (Loi de rbglement)
for 1990 (November 30, 1991).
1.2   Structure
Budset nomenclature
1.2.1       Adopt standardized budget nomenclature (with rMF
assistance) in a circular letter from the
Ministry of Finance in 1991.
1.2.2       Adopt  a  "program"  budget  structure  for  the
priority   ministries,   specifically   Finance,
Education and Health (1991 Koega).
1.2.3       Present  a  program  to  introduce  a  public
accounting framework (un plan comptable public)
(August 1, 1991).
1.3   Presentation
1.3.1       Prepare a 1991 budget simulation incorporating
the new nomenclature and presentation by program
for the priority ministries, Finance, Education
and Health (July-August 1991).
1.3.2       Present  the   1992  budget  using  the  new
nomenclature with presentation by program limited
to priority sectors (November 31, 1991).
2.          Priority Obiectives
2.1   Establishment  of  orioritv  crograms  by  the  ministries
concernedt
2.1.1       Establish physical program targets for 1991, 1992
and 1993 for Finance, Health and Education (June
30, 1991).
2.1.2       Establish budgets for these programs for 1991,
1992 and 1993 using the current nomenclature
(June 30, 1991).
2.1.3       Prepare budgets for programs (Finance, Health and
Education, Rural Sector and Environment) for 1992
and 1993 using the new nomenclature (November 31,
1991).
2.2   Budaet Restructurina:
Increase the proportion of budgetary allocations for goods and
services for health and primary education (1991-1993);
2.2.1       Increase expenditures for material and equipment
in the Ministry of Health (ESAS) from CFA 1.24
billion to CPA 1.34 billion in 1991 and 1992.
This 8% increase, on average, will rise to 9% in
1993 reaching about CFA 1.46 billion;
2.2.2       Increase significantly expenditures on materials
and equipment in the Ministry of Primary
Education (MEBAM) from CFA 331 million in 1991 to
CFA 516 million in 1992. This increase of more
than 56% will continue at a similar pace reaching
CFA 600 million in budgetary allocation in 1993;



Attachment 1
60                          Yage 3 of 1T
2.2.3       Assuming   a   sound   control   of   personnel
expenditures through an annual growth rate of no
more than 3% between 1991 and 1993 for the
Mlnletry of Health, and for the Ministry of
Primary  Educatlon.    The  amounts  for  these
expenditures will be CPA 64S mllion to CPA 682
million for the Ministry of Health and CPA 1.01
billion to CPA 1.13 billlon for the Ministry of
Primary Educatlon;
2.2.4       Increase total servLces consumed to a level
comptable with Government priortiLes through an
increase ln budgetary allocations of the Ministry
of Health for maLntenance of health centers and
hospitals.  In this respect, Lncrease spendLng
from CPA 244 million ln 1991 to about CPA 289
millilon in 1992.   This 18% increase will be
reinforced in 1993 reaching CIA 358 million;
2.2.5       Increase  budgetary  allocations  for  services
consumed by the Ministry of Primary Education
from CPA 145 million in 1991 to CPA 394 million
in  1992  and  maLataLn  the  same  level  of
expenditure in 1993.
2 .3  Public Investment Program
2.3.1       Revision of the PIP 1991, 1992, 1993 (March 31,
1991).
2.3.2       Preparation of financing needs for principal
programs in the priority sectors (June 30, 1991).
2-.3.3      Preparation of recurrent cost estimates for the
major projects (total cost exceeding CFA 1
billion) ending in 1991 (November 30, 1991).
2.3.4       Preparation of recurrent cost estimates for the
major new projects prior to their inclusion in
the PIP (beginning with the 1992 PIP).
2.4   prioritv Survey and Statistics
2.4.1       Establishment of a program to strengthen the
National Statistical and Demographic Institute
(INSD) (June 1991).
2.4.2       Identification and recruitment of a survey leader
and constitution of a local team of qualified
staff for the implementation of the priority
survey (August 31, 1991).
2.4.3       Strengtheninl INSD's capacities to carry out the
proposed survey program through procurement of
eqyipment (vehicles and computers), and foreign
training in data processing, sampling design and
selection (August-September 1991).
2.4.4       Seminar  for  the  Coordination  Committee  on
Statistics and Socioeconomic Studies (September
1991).
2.4.5       Questionnaire   development   and   adaptation,
customization of the data-entry software,



Attachment 1
61                          Page 4 of 11
completion of the sampling design and selection
(October-November 1991).
2.4.6       Publication  of  fieldwork  manualos  sampliag
methods and weightLng, data collectlon and data
entry manuals, process control system, data
processing system, and tabulatlon plan (November
1991).
2.4.7       Implementatlon   of   the   prlorlty   survey,
ldentlflcatlon of vulnerable groups through
household data collectlon in the selected sample
(November 1991-February 1992).
2.4.8       Dsta editing and data flle preparation (march-May
1992).
2.4.9       Tabulatlon, data analysi and report production,
and dlssemination of the results for the prlority
survey (June 30, 1992).
2.4.10      Implementatlon of a poverty assessment study
includLng a poverty profile in Burklna Faso, and
development of an analysis and monitoring tools
as well as the required statlstical base with a
view to integrating the soclal dLmonsLons Lnto
the design of macroeconomic and sectoral policies
(June-August 1992).
2.4.11      Preparation and implementation of a community
survey and a household budget-consumptLon survey
(1992-1993).
2.5   Agtuarial and Manacement Studies of the CNSS and CARFO:
2.5.1       Preparatlon of terms of roference  (August 1,
1991).
2.5.2       Implementation of study (November 1, 1991).
2.5.3       Disecussons with the Bank and impleme_n'ation of
recommendatlons (June 1, 1992).
3.   Monitoring Sudoe& pxecution
3.1   CcMzaterized budaet monitoring system
3.1.1       Prepare an assistance program with UNDP (MIS
project) and bilateral asslstance (Aprll 30,
1991).
3.1.2       Examine procedures for :oan management, role of
the DAAPe and DzP for purposes of (a) evaluatLag
the capaclty of the DAMFs/DEP to manage loans and
(b) lntroducing wlthln the above-mentLoned
prLority ministries a pllot operation using a
standard DAA organizatLon, to be tested during
FY91;
3*1.3       Prepare terms of reference for a study of loan
management procedures; seek out poseLbilitles of
financial assistance (October 31, 1991).
3.1.4       Introduce pilot operation as of June 30, 1991.



Attachment 1
62                          Page 5 of 11
3.1.5       Reorganize  system  for  monitoring  investment
budget, specifically by integrating the DIP
(Ministry of Plan project bank) with the SISP
(integrated service for Project Execution in the
Presidency) (September 31, 1991).
4.          Institutional   Measures   Peatainina   to   Civil -ervice
4.1   Information 4anaQement
4.1.1       Equip the Payroll Department and I=  with an
appropriate microcomputing capability (June 30,
1991).
4.1.2       Establish  a  central  file  database  of  State
employees, using the CENATRIN file (August 31,
1991).
4.1.3       Revise    nomenclature    (units,    allowances,
administrative and geographical location, budget,
accounting system) (September 30, 1991).
4.1.4       Cleaning and inspection of central file on the
basis of individual dossiers (December 31, 1991).
4.1.5       Reconstitute the past data (careers) file at the
FOP and constitute a payroll past data (February
29, 1992).
4.1.6       Complete study of procedures for updating and
inspection of the central FOP file (December 31,
1991).
4.1.7       Complete study of transmission of FOP--Payroll
data (December 31, 1'91).
4.1.8       Complete    study    of    DAAF    capabilities,
possibilities of decentralizing data management,
computerization of the DAAFs (December 31, 1991).
4.1.9       Introduce data management procedures (February
29, 1992).
4.2 Survey of State emvlovees
4.2.1       After reconstitution of the central and past data
files, evaluation of the usefulness of a survey
(December 31, 1991).
4.3   Payro1l
4.3.1       Prototype of payroll processing in the Payroll
Department (September 30, 1991).
4.4   Personnel Manaaement Svatem
4.4.1       Complete study of the promotion and remuneration
system (February 29, 1992).
4.4.2       Prepare career stream  (June 30, 1992).
4.4.3       Complete study of civil service positions (June
30, 1992).



63                           Attachment 1
Page 6 of 11
3.          Second Obiective3
Stimulate private investment by reform of the public
enterprise sector, banko, trade, price and regulatory
policies.
5.          Reform of the Public EnterDrise Sector
S.1   Introduce institutional reforms designed to ensure that public
enterprises are governed by the same legislation as private
companies.
5.1.1       Identify those EPICs that will be converted into
EPAs,  SEs  and  SEMs  respectively   (before
presentation to the Board), except for those
enterprises which must be studied before being
classified (May 31, 1992).
5.1.2       Modify  the  basic  laws  pertaining  to  public
enterprises so that the latter are governed by
the same legislation as private companies, and in
particular so as to ensure that membership of the
Board of Directors of the enterprises reflects
the structure of the capital (July 31, 1991).
5.1.3       Amend the individual statutes of the EPICs, SHMs
and Sea to ensure their conformity with the new
law and public enterprises (December 31, 1991).
5.1.4       Adopt a law on receivership (July 31, 1991).
5.1.5       Eliminate, save for any exceptions agreed with
the Bank, all direct or indirect subsidies to
public enterprises (December 31, 1991).
5.1.6       Complete study of cross debts as of December 31,
1990 for public enterprises still in operation at
that date (July 31, 1991).
5.1.7       Eliminate cross debts (December 31, 1991).
5.2   Prevaration and introduction of a Drivatization action glan
S.2.1       Introduce a law on privatization that will set
out privatization procedures (June 30, 1991).
5.2.2       Establish a privatization committee  (June 30,
1991).
5.2.3       Agree with Bank on final list of enterprises
(before presentation to Board)*
-     for which the shareholder status quo will
be preserved;
-     in which the State'o direct or indirect
equity participation will be eliminated or
reduced to a maximum of 25% and which need
rehabilitation before being privatized or
liquidated.
5.2.4       agree with Bank on a timetable for privatization
beginning with enterprises that already have
private shareholders and are profitable (before
presentation to Board).



64                          Attachment 1
6 Page 7 of 11
5.2.5       Por  each  enterprise  needing  rehabilitation,
appoint a recolver charged with preparing a
rehabilitation plan within a fixed period or
liquidating the enterprise within the mams period
if preparation of such a plan is not feasibicl
implement the rehabilLtation plan within another
fixed period (December 31, 1991).
5.2.6       Complete reduction to 25% of government share in
the capital of at least 12 enterprises (December
31, 1993).
S 2 7       Agree on term  of reference for the studies on
the role of OFNACER, COP and CSSPA in the context
of the new trade and pricing system (before
Board).
5.2.8       Complete these studies (December 31, 1991).
5.2.9       Consult with the World Dank and implement the
studies recommendations (May 31, 1992).
6.          Reform of the Bankina Saetor
6.1   Restructurina  and/or  r-eduction  of  %overNMIet  eauit
aXrticiation to a maximum of 25%
BND-B.  BA/BICI 1 s
6.1.1       Officially launch the search for private local
partners (before negotiations).
6.1.2       Bstablish a privatisation prospectus containing,
in  particular,  an  initial  balance  sheet,
financial projections and rehabilitation measures
(before June 1991).
6.1.3       Launch  the  search  for  a  technical  partner
(September 31, 1991).
6.1.4       Effective clean up of balance sheets (September
30, 1991).
6.1.5       Agreement with private partners on ownership of
the new banks, or presentation to the World Sank
of an acceptable alternative in cases where
private partners cannot be found (March 31,
1992).
6.1.6       Begin operation of the banks or implement the
alternative solution (June 30, 1992).
6.1.7       Completion  of  cleaning  of  balance  sheet
(September 30, 1991).
6.1.8       Complete  negotiations  with  partner  alroady
identified and startup of the new bank (December
31, 1991).



Attachment I
65                          Page 8 of 11
Cther Banks
6.1.9       Start negotiations to reduce Governmenta *quity
participation in CNCA and BICIA to a maxgmum of
25% (December 31, 1992).
6.1.10      Reduce Government's participation in those banks
to a maximum of 25% (third tranch.).
6.2    2co'verv of Bad Debts
6.2.1       submit  list  of  bad  debts  to  the  Bank,
particularly the 20 largest debtors of ach bank
(June 1, 1991).
6.2.2  -   Establish and appoint staff and managers to new
Loan Recovery Office (June 1, 1991), and submit
procedures manual to World Dank (July 31, 1991).
6.2.3       Recover at leasts
CFA 0.8 billion by December 31, 1991J
CPA 1.8 billion by December 31, 1992t
CPA 1.8 billion by December 31, 1993;
CPA 1.1 billion by December 31, 1994;
CFA 1.1 billion by December 31, 1995;
6.3 C-
6.3.1       Settlement by the Government of the CCP's debts
to the banks and the Government's debt to the
CCPs and CME (September 30, 1991).
6.3.2       Agree on the terms of reference for study to turn
the CCP into a financial institution (September
30, 1991).
6.3.3       Complete the study (June 30, 1992).
6.3.4       Discuss study's recommendations (September 30,
1992).
6.3.5       Implement the conclusions of the discussions
(January 31, 1993).
6.4   Studies of non-banking financial institutions
6.4.1       Agree on the terms of reference for a study to
identify   measures   to   promote   financial
intermediation (September 30, 1991).
6.4.2       Complete the study (June 30, 1992).
6.4.3       Discuss the study's recommendations  (December
1992).
6.4.4       Implement the conclusions of the dLicussions
(February 28, 1993).
7.    Trade Liberalization
7.1   Sienlification of imnort and ex2ort rscedars and elim2i%atin
of auantitative restrictions



Attachment 1
66                           Page 9 of 11
7.1.1       Consolidate Prior Authorizations to Import (API),
Special   Authorizations   to   Import   (ASI),
Exceptional Authorizations to Import (AMI), and
Technical Pormits to Import Authorizations (ABI);
and publication of the list of products still
subject to this single form of authorization
(August 1, 1991).
7.1.2       Reduce the list of products subject to the new
ASI from 43 to 19 and introduction of interim
tariff measures as necessary (June 30, 1992).
7.1.3       Reduce the list of products subject to the new
ASI from 19 to 15 and introduction of interim
tariff measures as necessary (third tranche).
7.1.4       Reduce the above list of products from 15 to S
(small  mesh  fishing  nets,   explosives  and
inflammable substances, military weapons and
munitions,   effects   and   uniforms,   certain
vegetable juices and extracts, and pharmaceutical
products) and introduction of interim tariff
measures as necessary (December 31, 1993).
7.1.5       Centralize all import formalities in a single
location (one stop window) in the Ministry of
Trade (August 1, 1991).
7.1.6       Introduce a system of preshipment inspection of
the quantity, quality and prices of imports
(December 31, 1991).
7.1.7       Study the role of CBC, ONAC, SNTB and CC to make
them more efficient in support of private
business (December 31, 1991) and application of
the study's recommendations (June 30, 1992).
7.1.8       Evaluate the one stop window (August 1, 1992) and
the performance of preshipment inspection of
imports (January 1, 1993).
7.2   Tariff Rationalization
7.2.1       Elimination of all standardized values (replaced
by CIF values) and application of interim tariff
measures (December 31, 1991).
7.2.2       Consolidate  duties   and   import  taxes   and
rationalization of levels of protection vias
(a)   analysis of the present system, proposals
for reforms, evaluation of their impact on
customs receipts and discussions with the
Bank on measures to be taken;
(L)   Agreement  with  Bank  on  TORe  for
analysis and on consulting contract
(July 1, 1991).
(ii)  Selection    of    consultant    and
initiation  of  study  (October  1,
1991).



Attachment 1
67                          Page 10 of 11
(iii) Communication to the World Bank of
study's  conclusions  (January  1,
1992).
(iv) Agreement with the Bank on the
measures to adopt (March 30, 1992).
(b) preparation of draft laws (Zatu) on the new
cugtome tariff (June 30, 1992).
(c)   approval of these laws (August 30, 1992).
(d)   initiate application of the new customs
tariff (January 1, 1993).
8.          Liberalization of the Price Control System
8.1   Abrogate the principle and price setting procedures for
locally produced goods (March 28, 1991).
8.2   Publish the list of products still subject to fixed margins
(June 30, 1991).
8.3   Reduce the number of imported products subject to a price
margin from 44 to 36 (December 31, 1991).
8.4  Reduce the number of imported products subject to a price
margin from 36 to 17 (July 31, 1992).
8.5   Reduce the number of imported products subject to a price
margin from 17 to 5, specifically, tomatoes, tires and tubes,
batteries, paper and cardboard, and petroleum products (third
tranche).
8.6  Reduce the number of products subject to a profit margin from
5 to 1, specifically, petroleum products (December 31, 1993).
8.7   Complete a study aimed at rationalizing the pricing of
petroleum products and establishing a link between domestic
prices and world prices;
(a)   Agree with the Association on the terms of reference
for the study and on the consultants' contract
(September 30, 1991);
(b)   Choose consultant and begin the study (October 31,
1991);
(c)   send results of study to IDA (March 31, 1992);
(d)   Agree with IDA on the measures to apply (April 30,
1992).
8.8   Prepare draft laws on the new system for pricing petroleum
products (Jine 1, 1992).
8.9   Approve the draft laws on the new system for pricing petroleum
products (September 1, 1992).
8.10 Apply the new laws on the prieLng of petroleum products (third
tranche).



Attachment I
68                          Page 11 of 11
9.           imolifv Procedures  Eliminate Rialdities and Znrove the
Oeration of the Labor Market
9.1 Alter ONPE*s role no as to make recourse to its service for
hiring employees optlonal (December 31, 1991).
9,2   Exchange views with the World Bank on the final draft of the
Labor Code before its presentation to the appropriate
authorities.
9 3   Promulgate a new Labor Code (condition for second tranche)
with a view to:
-     turning ONPE into a technical organization to provide
information on the labor market;
-     confirming that recourse to ONPE will be optional;
-     ensuring that recourse to fixed-term contracts will not
be affected by any restrictions on their duration or the
number of renewals; nor will there be any list limiting
the situations in which recourse to such contracts is
authorized.
9 4   Conduct  a  feasibility  study  on  the  modernization  and
reorganization of ONPE (August 31, 1991).
9.5   In light of the recommendations of the study mentioned in 9.4,
implement a technical cooperation project to ensure the
reorganization of 0NP (April 30, 1992).
9 6   Review the procedure for the survey of ethical behavior
(1 Ienqubte de moralit6) in order to identify procedures that
do not hamper private investment (before Board).
10.         Reform of the Leaal and Administrative Framework
10.1 Consult with the World Bank prior to presentation of the draft
Investment Code to the National Ad Hoc Committee (July 1,
1991), and promulgation of a new Investment Code so as to
lntroduce transparent, automatic and simplified crlteria for
awarding incentives (second tranche).
10.2 Establish an Interministerial Committee to be responsibli. for
consolidating all legal documents (second tranche).
10.3 Update commercial legislation includLng, if necessary,
promulgatLon of a new Commercial Code (third tranche).
10.4  Adopt simplifLed procedures for the establishment of new
businesses in BurkLna Faso (December 31, 1991).
10.5 Zetablish a technical secretariat within the Interministerial
Committee of the SAP to supervise the application of the new
laws (negotiations).
10 6 Adoption of new law guaranteeing private land ownership as
well as the appropliate application decrees Lncluding
reference to urban, rural, mining, and forestry ownership.



Attachbent 2
Pop I of 2
Prorty ptogam.
rdm  Eduea"o
QbiUym:
Increase primary school enrollment fom 29 percent to about 40 prct In 1996. 1
time, the social dimension of the program aims to impro bor W prdutt and eabl
a better use of information (belth, fmily planoing, etc.) by yung people  og baic
education of the young, including girs, in rur area. In th sI4erm, te pogm
aims to stabilize school andamn  by improving  trion throuh a bor aloctio of
resources and an increase In school feedn.
Means:
Between 1991 and 1993, the supplementary expendt    program will requir CPJA  6.8
billion, of which CFAF 332 million would be for persomel, CPAP 2.75 bi   for
essenti school materas, CFAF 2.8 billion for school feing, and CPA}  87 mlMion
for construction ad equipment.
The provisional estimate8 of budgetary r _  in 1991-93 are s 1fs  (CPA?
million):
1990    1991    1991    1992    1993
Zatu    Rev.
Personnel                      9524    9791   10091   10377   11363
Materials                       104     318      331     516      600
Services                         17     120      14S     394      394
Transfers                       163     1SS      161     208      216
Total                          9808   10384   10728   11495   12573
The average annual increase of the total budget is 8.6 percen  To allow for vanlid 
50 percent of the housing allowance has not been sutcted from personnd el_ b 1991-
93; this would hav reduce persone expendis by about CPA? 300 mlilli  for the am
number of peronnel.



Attachment 2
70                            Page 2 of 2-
Health
X ctdives:
Increase health services capacity (630 primary health centers, 63 medical centrs, 9
regional hospital centers and 2 national hospitals) in emergency health care and in patient
nutrition.
Mn:
The program costs are CFAF 3 billion, related exclusively to essentia medicines and
small materials and supplies. It should be noted that additional resources are already
provided to the national hospital centers through cost recovery which produces revenues
of CFAF 132 million per annum; these resources were formerly channelled to the
budget but are now kept by the national hospital centers.
The provisional estimates of budgetary requirements in 1991-93 are as follows (CFAF
million):
1990    1991    1991    1992    1993
Zatu    Rev.
Personnel                     6364    6011    6451    6640    6824
Materials                      937      990    1237    1336    1460
Services                        81      128     244      289     358
Transfers                      468      448     688      688     688
Total                         7850    7577    8620    8953    9330
The average nual increase of the total budget is 5.9 percent. To allow for valid comparison,
50 percent of the housing allowance has not been subtracted from personnel expenditures in 1991-
93; this would have reduced personnel expenditures by about CFAF 300 million for the same
number of personnel.
Other social actions are being undertaken, in particular by the Revolutionary Solidarity
Fund which collects donations (these are virtually obligatory for civil servants and voluntary for
private sector employees) and finances emergency assistance (drou  and disasters). 'Me amount
spent in 1990 was about CFAF 300 million.



Annex III
71                             Page I of 5
3'ttKIMA - POLICY MATRIX
A.   fjCTIVE:  lRprove pubice resource management by restructuring and refocussing current expenditures and
better programming of public developmnt expenditures.
Post AdJustment Efforts               SAL Action Program                Nonitorable actions
and schedule
t. Restruetugrina current
a) Maintaining public wage          a) Maintain public  age             - Asreement on 1992 and 199 budget
bill in 1990 at 1989 level.         bill below 60 percent of            including a reduction in military
Freezing of 1990 merit              current expenditure in             personnel expenditures; phasing out
increases.                         1W1-93.                             autmatic recruitment of graduates;
foregoing of permanent merit increases
b) Containing expen-                                                    after 1989 and salary increments in
diture on scholarships.                                                 1991-93 (Condition of Second and Third
Tranche respectiveLy).
c) Reduction in military
expenditures.                       b) No increases in riomnal            Satisfactory implementation of 1991
salaries and allowances.           revised and 1992 budgets in accordance
with agreed targets In priority sectors
c) Reduce current                   (condition of Second and Third Tranche,
transfers by at least CFA          respectively).
1.5 billion during 1991-93.
d) Strengthen monitoring            - Revise and public accounting
of expenditures, public            procedures (August 1991). Prepare 1992
accounting and auditing.           and 1°93 budgets using revised budgetary
nmenciature. Quarterly reports en
structure of actual expenditures.
e) Conduct a public                 - Establish budgets for priority
expenditure review focussed        programs (November 1991).
On priority sectors
(primary education. health,        -  Implement NIS (February 1992).
envwrortent, agriculture)
f)  Ioprove civil service          - Establish central personnel file
management.                         (August 1991).
- Complete study of benefits and career
development (February 1992).
Adopt "cadres organiques mBaement
system (June 1992).
2. Focu an prioritv
mtoar
a)  Increased hiring of             a)  Increase allocations            - Recruitment of 950 additional primary
priary school teachers.             for priority sectors               school teachers a year; increase
(primary education, health,        recurrent budget for primary education
revenue services, road             and health (Table 7).  Increase budget
maintenance).                      for road maintenance to CFA 3 biLlion a
year; Determine recurrent cost
b) Reduce staffing of non-         requirement of revenue services (July
development oriented                1991). Agreement on 1992 and 1993
Ministries, while                  budgets and satisfactory implementation
increasing staffing levels         of 1991 revised and 1992 budgets
for priority sectors.              (Condition of Second and Third Tranche,
respectively).



Annex III
n2                              Page 2 of 5
3.
0) 8bu&min  lwo                     a) Coolidate wr l                   - Agreemont on 92-9. PIP (Deceeoer
imeuI* projest  in                  treches of PIP with                 191).
1999.                              Govuen t bxdgt starting
In 1991;                                        a A   on 93-95 PIP (Deceer
h)  ^pt~ of  tais_t                                                     1992).
etem   evitoie NW of
mthbluvw to atiate                  b) SM ia     t .xdting of           - Estimate recurrent costs of completed
of I         to                    thre-yoar rotting PIP.             projects (1ew _   1991; aemi-annuet
4apletem prjeozct.                                                      updating).
e) tiqrove coordination             - Estfimte recurrent costs of new larse
between PIP and Govornment         projects starting with 1992-94 PiP
b4det.                             (Moveeber 1991; semi-arnal updating).
d) Strengthen monitoring
by merging SISP and IP and
providing _ l-anual
updates an executifn of
PIP.
S. 4 j1EC s  Stlulbte private sector Investment through reform  to pbtilc enterprise sector,
GROOKnW tt  prfie, end regulatory poticies.
past Adwsetmnt Efforts              AL Action Progrun                  Mmnitorable Actions
____________________                _______________                       and    Sch edule
a) Etmidutien  of                   a)  Itpletent fnstitutfonal         - Identify EPICs to be converted into
swerfitmtgarntees on              reforms to pae the way for          EPAs, SENs, and SES (Condition of
loans to Pls.                      divestiture   applying              Board); fupletantation (DecedAcr 1991).
crmmcial pr Meiptes to
opeations end m_nwgae t            - Amend existing laws governing
Of PEs.                            coposiiffon of Boards and subJect atl
urns nd PEs to private commercial law
(July 1991).
* Enact law on company receivership
(July 1991).
b) El1.idtn on of indirect          b) Exmirne options for              - Eliminate subsidies direct or
ashsidies to Pi.                    reducing need for subsidies         indirect to PEs except as agreed with
in pubfic utilitles.               the Wortd Bank (Deeember 1991).
- Complete Cross-debt study (July
¶991); ispleontation (Dec 1991).
6) CreatiOn of                      c) Initiate pubfic                  - Adopt legal texts specifying
Privatiutfon CoWtison               enterprise reforms                 privatisatfon procedures (Junm 1991).
aid pre.rtiod  of                   including privatizatfon and
ditsfitur. stratgy.                 liquidation In line with            - Agreement on lists of enterpries  to
the agreed divestitur              be (a) mintained under state oawership,
d) C4pibtet prietietion             action plan.                        (b) privatized to attain a maximu  25X
and -iui*tim  @o9f our                                                 govermmnt share, and (c) placed under
tpespime.                                                              receivership.  (Amex VI) (Board
Condition).
- Finalization of terms of reference
for studies of role of OFUACER. COP and
CSPPA (Board Condition).
- Completion of studies of OFNACER, CeP
and CSPPA (December 1991);
Implementation of recomendations (may
1992).



Annex III
"3                             Page 3 of 5
2. Imfii later Refem
0) Agreoment with Bank wnd         a) Rehebitat tion erd              - Initiation of search for private
IW  an restructurinr  nd           restructuring of banking          partners for SRS mnd for UREBSAIFCI/CAI
fIn uing action ptwns.             system  nctuding                   gro4p.
privatization end
liquidetfon ff necessary.
b) Appointwent of
recoivers for 3Om8 nd             b) Red4ction of Goverreent          - Restructuring of balance sheets of
growp LUDtENAFCI/CAI.              p.rticfpation in capital of       8D0 and UREBAJBFCI/CAI and BIB
at I  nbof to 25 maximau.          (September 1991).
c) Initfieton of                                                      - Cocpletion of restructuring end
regotiatons "th private                                               privatisatton of BNDB and group
prtners to restructure                                                UREBAIBFCI/CAI or mptementatlon of an
fIe.                                                                  alternative solution (liquidation) (June
1992).
- CoWlotion of restructuring and
privatisatfon of BIB (Deceeber 1991).
- Reducing Govermnt participation in
capital of CNCA and ICIA to 25S
(Condition of Third Tranche).
d) Establish a loan                c) Implement an effective          - Prepare lists of large debtors of
recowery brema  In the             loan-recovery program.            each bank (June 1991).
Presidecy.
- Staff loan recovery bureau (June 1991)
and estabifsh operating procedures (July
1991).
- Recovery in accordance with annual
targets (Amex 111).
d) Convert Postal Checking         - Repaesmnt by Goverrment of CCP debts
System (CCP) into financial       to banks and Goverrent debts to CCP and
lnstitution and review non-       CUE (September 1991).
bnk financiat
institutions.                     - Agreement on TORs for study to
convert CCP (Septeuber 1991);
mpleamentation of results (January
1993).
- Agreement on TORs for review of non-
bank financial institutfons (Septeeer
1991); discussion of results with the
Bank (February 1993).
3. Price Libraliation
*) Reducing price controls         a) Remove remining price           - Maintain controls on at most 36
on 63 grops of imorted             controls on all fiported          products (Decerber 1991). 17 produets
goods. Agreement on                goods except petroleut            (July 19). 5 products (Condition of
scheule for eliminatIon of         products.                          Third Tranche). 1 product (December
prfet controls by and 1993.                                           993).
b) Lifting of price                b) Modify petroleum                - Cotplete study of petroleum products
controls on alt                    products pricing and              pricing and marketing (March 1992).
dwAstically produced               marketfnr.                         Implement recommendations of study
good.                                                                 (Condition of Third Tranche).



Annex III
74                               Page 4 of 5
4. Trade Rtf o
a)  Abotishing of export             a)  Substantailly reduce                 Maintain non-tariff import
taxes and permits.                   quantitative and                      restrictions on at most 19 products
administrative restrictions          (June 1992), 15 products (Condition of
b)  Abotishing local                 on all ioports except small           Third Tranche), S products (December
purchase requirements.               fishing nets, armaments and           1993):
amunition, military
C) Removing prior import             equipment, pharmaceutics                 Implement simplified import
authorizaetion for 29                and toxic plants; provide             registration procedures (August 1991).
categories of goods,                 equivalent protection
removing special import              through surcharges on                    Implement prior import verification
authorization for 7                  import duties as needed.              (December 1991).
categories of goods.
b)  Prepare import tariff               Eliminate all standard values
reform.                              (Oecember 31, 1991).
- Agreement with the Bank on measures
to adopt (March 1992).
- Preparation of legal texts for tariff
ref.rm (June 1992).
-  Besing of tariff reform (January
1. 1993).
5.  Rulator  and
'at-MMnsrtv grelforms
a)  Studies by Chamber of            a)  Creation of regulatory            - Establishment of interministerial
Commerce and FIAS/MIGA of            and administrative                   comittee responsibte for consolidation
obstacles to private                 environment conducive to             of all laws (Condition of Second
investment.                          private investment                   Tranche).
including simplified
b)  Initiated revision of            procedures for establishing           - Simplify procedures for "enquete de
Investment Code.                     new enterprises.                     moralitd" of foreign investors
(Condition of Board).
c) Initiated revision of
Labor Code. Eliminated                                                     - Adopt simplified procedures for
need for Oideological                                                     establishing enterprises (December
tests" in hiring of                                                       1991).
emptoyees.
b)  Revise Investment and            - Revision of Commercial Code and
d)  Initiated review of              Commercial Codes and                  related legisation (Condition of Third
Land Temnre Policies.                related legislation.                 Tranche).
- Enactment of Investment Code
(Condition of Second Tranche).
c)  Preparation and                  - Enactment of Labor Code (Condition of
implementation of a new              Second Tranche).
Labor Code.
- Make use of OWPE services in hiring
optional (December 1991).
d)  Revise Land Tenure               - Enact revised land tenure law
legislation and Mining               (Condition of Board).
Code.
e)  Review appropriateness           - Completion of CBC, ONAC and Chamber
of tax levels applied by             of Commerce Review (December 1W1);
CBC. ONAC and Chamber of             implement recommendations (June 192).
Commerce in relation to
roles performed.



Annex III
7S                               Page 5 of 5
C. 9JECTIVEs Provide resources to deal with poverty alleviatfon In adjustment.
Post Adjustment Elfforts                 SAL Action Progam               Monitorable Actions
gnd Schedule
1. Re orssn{ Resource
a)  Increased resources for         a)  Implement actions                - Overall performance.
primry education.                    contafned in Education IV
in accordance with
timetable in project.
b)  Impltment action plan              Overall performance.
for health sector in
accordance with tixetable
in restructured health
project.
c)  Increase private sector         -  Implement a public works and
employment during SAL               employment project in urban areas.
implementation.                     (overall performance).
b) Dropped Investments               d) Ensure availability of            - Studieo of social security funds
from 1990-92 PIP with               social security funds to             (CuSS and CARFO).  Implement
financing from social               retirees.                            recaxnendations of completed study -
e"curity fund.                                                           (Jurm 1992).
Reimburse all arrears to CNSS from
public egencies (December 1991).
2.   1rnt i   cs        tv
di  fngon  of Adlustmnabt
a) Creatfon of                      a) Carry out ard apply                  Creation of institutional
fnteromnfsterfal commfsion          results of permanent                 structures for carrying out survey (June
on sociat dimensions in             household survey to                  1991).
1990.                                identify social dimensions
of adjustment.                         Recruitment of survey manager (August
1991).
- Completfon of sasple design,
questionnaire, recruitment and training
of field staff lamuching of priority
srvey (DOeceaber 1991).
- CoMpletion of survey and
dissemination of results; dafining
extension of survey (June 1992).
b)  Completed design of              b)  Prepare a poverty               - August 1992.
priority household survey            profile and identify
to identif y most vulnerable         poLicies to aLleviate
groups.                              poverty.



76
Annex rv
BMURIA PASo
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENTPRGA
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Processing Events:
a)    Time taken to prepare credits              13 months
b)    Credit Prepared by:                        Ministry of Finance and
Ministry of Plan
C)    First IDA Mission:                         July 1990
d)    Appraisal Missiont                         February/March 1991
3)    Negotiations:                              May 1991
f)    Planned date of effectiveness:             August 1991



77                                        Annex V
BURKINA PASO
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
I. SUMMARY STATMENT OF IDA CREDITS (s ot March 81, 1991) *
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                                   Amount less
Number    Year            Purpoe                                     Cancellations     Undisburoed
--   -------                             (USS of ion)
Twenty-see credits fully dlsbursed                                      218.84
1482-BUR   1984            Perkor Mining Explor&tion A TA                 7.40                8.84
16604BUR   1985            Fertili zr Credit                              9.28                6.49
1596-BUN   1984            Education III                                 21.60               16.14
1697-BU1   1986            HeaIth I                                      26.60               17.07
1696-BUN   1986            Agricultural Reoerch                          17.90               16.70
1979-BUR   1960            Agarcultural Servie.r                         42.00               86.60
2087-UR   1986             Urban SI                                      22.20               22.08
2229-BUN   1988   mc Eavironmentel Management                            16.60               16.60
TOTAL number of credits a 8                                             168.48              188.86
TOTAL:                                      870.2?
of which repald                             7.27
Totel held by IDAs                          871.90
U. SWUMARY STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March S1, 191)
Loan
Number   Year    Obligor                 Type of Busines                 Loan   EquIty    Total
e…______________- - U---8 --                                                   mlIon)- -
481-UV   1979    SOVOLPLAS               Polypropylene                   0.40     0.14       0.64
bass
Total Gross Commitments:                                0.40     0.14       9.54
Less Cancellations, write-offs and repayments:          0.40     0.14       09.4
Total Commitments hold by IFC:                          0.90          0.0.  9.ca
(a) IDA Credits are denominated In Speciel Drawing Rights. Tho 'Amount lss Cancel leitions column
shows the dollar equivalent at the time of credit negotiations. The OUndisbursed' column
shows the dollar equivalent as of March 81, 1991.
(so) Not yet effective



BURNINA FASO SAL
CLASSIFICATIONOF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
I. ENTERPRISES STAYING FULLY OR MAJORITY GOVERNMENT OWNED
EPICs (1)                               Government           Enterprises to                                     Government
to beco-M                               Share of             stay Government                                      Share of
EPAs(2)            Activity             Capital (%)             owned                  Activity                  Capital (%)
CCVA             Vehicles                 100                  EPICs                                               74.8
CRPAs            Agric.-extension         100                  SONABEL                Electricity                  100.0
services
OOPT             Tambao Office            100                  ONATEL                 Tolephone                    100.0
iN               Printing                 100                  ONEA                   Water Supply                 100.0
SEM,
LNBTP            Laboratory               100                  SONABHY                Potrol imp-t                 100.0
swanGEB          Mining                   100                  SHELL                  Petrol di*.ribution          S1.0
Exploration
CNSS             Social Security          100                  SIBAM                  Ammunition                   72.0
CARFO            Retirement Fund          100                  SOCEMAS                Markots                      90.3
Management
ONP              Postal Services          100                  SONACI8                Movies                       68.3
Distribution
LONAB            Lottery                  100                  SOFITEX                Coton                        86.0
OFNACER(3)       Coroals                  100                  CBMP                   Gold commerce               100.0
marketing
CSPPA(a)         Price stabilizatilon     l00                                         Gold                        100.0
COP(3)            Price                    100                  SCFB                   Railroad                    100.0
stabilization
CBC(3)           Loading                  100
ONAC(3)          Commerce                 100
promotion                                                                                                     aX
_ C
(1)  Etabl;ssementspubl;ce a caractere Industrial et commercial                                                                 OI~
(2)  Etabl issem_ntspubII ce a caractere oadministrat; If
Pending study to be compeotod under the SAL



BURKINA FASO SAL
CLASSIFICATIONOF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
I. ENTERPRISES TO BE PRIVATIZED
to be first                               Gewaov ent ehar.                 to be                                        Gos romeat hare
restructured                              of Capital (3)             privatizedas are                                   of Capital (X)
or liquidated          Activity                                                                    Activity
FASO YAAR            Gen. Destruction            98.8                  FASO TOURS                Tourism                        37.8
FASO FAN             Textiles                   I74.2                  SOBCA                     Vehicles credit                39.3
SOBEMA               Household equIpment         60.0                  SIFA                      8;kes                          48.9
SONACAB              Textiles                    99.7                  SNTO                      Shipping                       51.0
SAVANA               Beverages                   98.6                  SBMC                      Loether                        61.4
SONACEB              Packaging                   14.0                  SONAP!ARI                 Phermceouticaldistribution    61.S
FDF                  Textiles                   100.0                  SONAR                     Insurance                      62.1
SINAC                Shoes                      190.0                  SICOMAF                   Matches                        69.6
SOSUCO               Sugar                       82.6                  FLEX FASO                 Vegetabl export                91.4
RNTC                 Urban transport            166.0                   M                        Flour                          76.7
AIR BURKINA          Air transport               96.8                  £IE                       Vogetable oil                  78,2
NAGANAGANI           Air transport               60.0                  fASOPLAST                 Plastic                        91.4
ZAMA PUB.                Advertising                   166.0
SOREMIB              Mining                      89.60                 SOCOGIB                   Construction                   95.7
CNA                      Poultry                       166.6
SOMiCOB              Mining                      61.6                  SILMANDE                 Hotel                           99.7
CMK                  Mining                      60.0                  HOTEL IND.                Hotel                         10606
Sil                  Mining                      62.9                  CNEA                     Agriculturoequipment           1600.
AVV                      Volta ValIoy development      100.6
ONBAN                    Agro hydrolic                 100.0
CCIA OF                  Chamber of Commerce           1606.
FRUICEMA                 Fruit exploration             166.0
ONAVET                   Veterinary sciences           160.0
FEED COMOE               Agr;culture cooperatIve       100.0
MACEHOU                  Agriculturecooperative        100.0
ONPF                    Woll Building                  1660.
CENATRIN                 Computers                     10O.0
- onterprisesunderlilned aro those to be privatizod In priority during the SAL period
t.tp



IBRO 206601
5'                           ;0                                                           r                             lb i-.                  .    b0                                              I -7[
150                                                                                                                                 *                             150 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0eMAURtiTANA
MALI          J   NIGER
BURKINA FASO                                                                                  r                                                                 i                               '   F
wr                                       tg                        a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GUIN  i i1 Z)
-               J   C6~~~TE
p                          <       /              >              eD, W                                                       )                              X            / °"^ i | s             |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IAI
140                                                                                                                                                             DIVOISE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~VI
-14,F                                                       T. mw                   Dii                                                                                                       10  *61.           x        |
13,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3-
I? ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~EI
To~~~~- R$                                                                                  UAA         ,  
romor                                        N                                                                                                                               PaLM   *  Natio\al Capotal sl
§  Province Capitol$
booopwo~,0 by bo htby'000 005 C00000* bO Obo C000000               Prvince Boundaries
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y,~f0010,0                                                       )b0    0, T0 )bB  m  00 000
T.                                                                                                            [~~~~~~TaooCvo*bo*0000,0.0000000  080m500)0  ntertaftional Boundaries
c    T        o       S D'IO  IRE                                                              0000, b  J \        I 0 C  *
-aw ~ ~~ ~CCT                            D'VOR                                                                                         10                            00 M  Dt>; g         ^           ovi                          20
50i                              40                                    2-0                               if          0    ff   If                                                            r r



