Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2281 BUR
Dutch Grant Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Dutch Funds
provided by the
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated December 20, 1994
DUTCH GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2281 BUR
DUTCH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1994, between BURKINO FASO (the Grantee) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
the Dutch Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the Minister for Development 
Cooperation of the Netherlands (the Minister).
WHEREAS the Grantee has requested the assistance of the International 
Development Association (the Association) and of the Minister in the financing of the 
urgently needed imports required under the Grantee's program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Grantee's economy (the 
Program) referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement No. 2281-BUR 
dated July 5, 1991, between the Grantee and the Association (the Development Credit 
Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Minister wishes to make available to the Grantee a grant in the 
amount of ten million Dutch Guilders (f.10,000-,0-00) (the Dutch Grant) to assist the 
Grantee in carrying out the Program on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a letter, dated November 28, 1994, the Minister has requested the 
Association, and the Association has accepted, by a December 13, 1994 amendment of the 
Page  2
December 11, 1986 Schedule to the Arrange-ments between the Minister, the 
Interna-tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-ment and the Association (the 
Arrange-ments), to administer, inter alia, the Dutch Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of the Arrangements; and
WHEREAS the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assis-tance extended to the 
Grantee under this Dutch Grant Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral 
development aid extended by the Government of the Netherlands to the Grantee;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-ment Credit 
Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement, subject, however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of the Dutch Grant 
pursuant to the Arran-gements, except in the phrase "member of the Association" in 
Section 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and Section 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Dutch Grant extended to the Grantee under this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Dutch Grant Account, the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Grantee to which the amount of the Dutch Grant is credited;
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execu-tion of the Project 
referred to in the Preamble to the Dutch Grant Agreement, the 
performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Dutch Grant Agreement, and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Dutch Grant";
(g)
Sections 3.02 through 3.05, 4.01 through 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), and 
Article XII are deleted; and
(h)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grantee.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the terms "Dutch Guilders" and "f." mean the currency of the 
Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of ten million Dutch 
Guilders (f.10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be with-drawn from the Dutch 
Grant Account for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
Page  3
made) in respect of the reason- able cost of the goods required for the Program and in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall other-wise agree, contracts 
for goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Dutch Grant shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement which 
is hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if it 
were fully set forth herein, it being understood that the references in said Schedule 
to the "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the Association acting as 
Administrator of the Dutch Grant.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expendi-tures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way 
restri-cting or limit- ing any other right, power or remedy of the Ad-ministrator 
under this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Dutch Grant 
as, in the Administrator's reasona-ble opinion, represents the amount of such 
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles III and IV 
of the Development Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with 
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood 
that all references in said Articles III and IV to "the Association" shall be deemed 
to be references to the Administrator of the Dutch Grant under this Agreement and all 
references to the "Credit" and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed to be references 
to the Dutch Grant and the Dutch Grant Account, respectively, and all references to 
the "Borrower" shall be deemed to be references to the Grantee.
ARTICLE IV
Representation; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 (a) of the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Minister in charge of planning of the Grantee shall be the 
representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Le Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances
  et du Plan
B.P. 7008
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT)
Page  4
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 4.03. In accordance with the Arrangements, the rights and obligations of 
the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to the Minister. The Grantee 
accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Grantee to that 
effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if the Minister had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further 
action or formality required on the part of any party and, from such date, the 
Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Dutch Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this 
Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the Dutch Grant
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Dutch Grant
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Dutch Grant may be withdrawn from the Dutch Grant Account for 
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods required during the execution of the Program and to be 
financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
sub-groups:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
Page  5
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones, 
unworked or worked
718
   718.1
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, n.e.s.
897
   897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares (including 
set gems)
971
     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
concentrates)
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Grantee for goods supplied from the 
territory of the Grantee, excluding, if the currency of the Grantee is also that of 
another country, expendi-tures in such currency for goods supplied from the territory 
of such other country;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of Dutch 
Guilders 10,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures 
before that date but after April 1, 1991;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $5,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance; and
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption.
