Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2645-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN1
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PORT OF BAR WORKING ORGANIZATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - PORT OF BAR
November 12, 1979
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their *fficlal duties. ItS contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank uthoriMtlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                                      Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                             Din.18.70
Din.l                                            US$0.0535
Din.1,000                                        US$53.48
Din. 1,000,000                                   US$53.476
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973; as of
June 29, 1979 the rate was Din.19.076 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                = Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COI                 = Community of Interest
IBT                 = Investment Bank of Titograd - Associated Bank
ICB                 = International Competitive Bidding
LDR                 = Less Developed Region
MCS                 = Mercalli Intensity Scale
PBWO                = Port of Bar Working Organization
RTE                 = Railway Transport Enterprise
RTO                 = Railway Transport Organization
SFRY                = Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SR                  = Socialist Republic
USAID               = United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTE]iEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
PORT OF BAR
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:            Port of Bar Working Organization (PBWO)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)
Amount:              US$50.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period, with interest at 7.95 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The proposed project will enable PBWO (i) to repair and
restore the essential services and facilities of the port
that can be repaired economically which were severely
damaged or destroyed by the earthquakes of April 15 and
May 24, 1979; and (ii) to provide facilities and cargo-
handling equipment to partially replace those damaged
beyond repair.
Project Objective:  To provide the essential services for the industrial and
commercial activities in the hinterland.
Economic Benefits:  Benefits arise from restoring the movement of traffic and
imaports through Southern Yugoslavia's major seaport and
enitrepot for Belgrade and the industrial and agricultural
areas surrounding the capital.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             In view of the need to provide resources to Yugoslavia
with minimum delay, no separate Staff Appraisal Report has
been prepared to accompany this Report.
Estimated Cost:                                                      Bank
Local    Foreign    Total    Participation
U---------- (S$ millions)-------------
Repair siiAr restoration    50.4       35.3       85.7          24.4
Extension o: facilities
and new eiiuipment       12.9        25.6       38.5         25.6
Technical assistance        0.6          -         0.6            -
Total                      63.9        60.9      124.8          50.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financial Plan:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ millions)-----
IBRD loan                                         -        50.0       50.0
Republic's contributiorn                        63.9       10.9       74.8
Total                                           63.9       60.9      124.8
Estimated Disbursements:                             FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
-----(US$ millions)-----
Annual                                         12.0   20.0   16.0    2.0
Cumulative                                     12.0   32.0   48.0   50.0



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
PORT OF BAR WORKING ORGANIZATION (PBWO) WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to US$50.0 million to Port of Bar Working Organization (PBWO), with
the guarantee of the ',ocialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), to
finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of a project for the rehabilita-
tion of the Port of Bar which were damaged in the earthquakes of April and May
1979. The loan would bear interest at the rate of 7.95 percent per annum and
would have a term of 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Ecolnomic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and Novem-
ber 1976.  Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia:  Self-Management Socialism and
the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.        The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government, enter-
prises and public institutions has the leading role in economic and social
development. It accounts for 85 percent of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector is comprised predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle of workers self-management bringing with it its own set of unique
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
gradually evolved over the years with important new changes introduced in the
Constitution of 1974. These changes reaffirm and further extend the decision
making power of workers. The federative structure of the state has been
strengthened. Responsibility foc important social and economic decisions has
been shitted from the federation to the republics and provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers, through their workers' collectives, over
the socially owned means  f production has been potentLally increased by a
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recormiendation of the President for rLe Mcntenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Highways (Report No. P-2622¼-'T) of August 31,
1979.



restructuring of all economic organizations. All economic organizations e.g.
enterprises, now consist of legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Asso-
ciated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of production producing a
marketab'e output. The creation of BOALs as the basic decision making cell
provides workers with a more wieldy unit to manage particularly as the product
of their work becomes more easily identifiable.
4.        In addition to strengthening decision-making power of workers at the
micro level, recent changeF have extended workers' self-management to the
macroeconomic sphere. New instruments of macro-economic policy have been
introduced which are formulated on the basis of participation of all economic
agents. These new measures are expected to strengthen macro-economic manage-
ment. The impact of these changes is apparent in incomes, prices and employ-
ment policy and in the foreign exchange and commercial policy. The most
significant development, however, is the introduction of a new system of
planning.
5.        The new system of planning--self-management planning--is based as
in central planning on an ex ante medium-term view of the development of the
economy. Similarly, it is based on legally binding undertakings, in the form
of medium term contractual arrangements between all economic units, thus
reflecting a strong commitment to plan implementation. However, in sharp
contrast to central planning, plan formulation is based on participation of
all economic units, including government planning bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. Following an exhaustive exchange of information, the planning process
involves a series of iterations to achieve consistency amongst the plans of
economic units. Once an acceptable degree of consistency is achieved, eco-
nomic units enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply and
demand. In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date the state
can impose a temporary injunction.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural trans-
formation. GDP between 1954-75 grew at an average annual rate of about 7
percent in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high through-
out the period, averaging 30 percent of GDP in recent years. Since population
grew at only 1 percent per annum, real per capita income more than tripled
during the period to an estimated $1,960 at 1977 market prices. 1/ The social
sector, in particular industry, was the driving force of the economy. The
share of industry in GDP has increased to 47 percent while agriculture has
declined to 16 percent, paving the way for development of a modern industry/
service oriented urban society. The past two decades have also been asso-
ciated with a growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1954-76 exports and imports of goods and non-factor services have
grown by around 8.8 percent and 9.5 percent per annum in real terms, respec-
tively; much of this in the convertible currency areas.
1/   According to the 1978 World Bank Atlas.



- 3 -
7,        Although Yugoslavia's overall performance has been impressive,
Yugoslavia has been characterized by large regional income disparities.  Four
of the regions, namely Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro, with
two-thirds of the national average per capita income, and Kosovo, with one-
third, are officially ^iesignated as less developed regions (LDRs). The differ-
ence between the most leveloped region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1.  Parallel to these inter-regional disparities there are
large intraregional per capita disparities ranging 10 to 1 between communes.
These differences are a product of diverse factors notably differing shares of
the low productivity agricultural sector and unfavorable demographic conditions
e.g. higher dependency ratios and population growth rates. Until recently
regional income disparities tended to widen. Since 1971 sizeable concessionary
credits (with about 50 percent grant element), equal to about 9.3 percent of
the GDP of the LDRs in 1974, have been transferred to the LDRs through the
Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions.
8.        Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the expanding modern
sector. Between 1954-76 employment in the modern social sector increased by
around 4 percent per annum facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impzessive record, considerable imbalances exist. Large
productivity and income differentials exist between the modern (mainly social)
and the traditional (private agricultural) sectors. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in
1973 Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973,
with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing considerable
pressure on the social. sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly fran about 7 percent in 1971 to nearly 13 percent in 1976. 1/
This problem has taken an added urgency as the incidence of unemployment has
been highly regionali2ed. In 1975 unemployment rates ranged from 23.5 percent
in Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        Yugoslavia's economic development in recent years has been charac-
terized by stop-go poLicies and cyclical behavior. Periods of rapid economic
growth and inflationary pressure have resulted in balance of payments diffi-
culties, leading to measures restricting the level of economic activity. This
has been followed by periods of relatively modest growth and improvements in
the balance of paymen-s situation. In 1974, rapid domestic economic growth,
1/   These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered unemployment to social sector
labor force. The ratio of registered unemployment to total resident
labor force would have been about 7.5 percent in 1976.



- 4 -
recession in Western EurcDe and higher oil prices resulted in a sharp deterio-
ration of the balance of oayments situation and a $1.2 billion current account
deficit. In the same year domestic inflation (retail prices) fueled by
external price rises. acce'lerated to 26 percent. Both 1975 and 1976 were
marked by policies aimed at stabilizing the economy through moderating the
rate of growth, improving the balance of payments situation and reducing
inflation. GDP grew by 3.") percent per annum in 1975 and 3.9 percent in 1976,
well below the historical trend rate. Weak domestic demand reduced import
requirements and placed pressure on enterprises to export.  This, and the
recovery of activity in the OECD, led to a 15 percent real increase in
merchandise exports in 1976. Merchandise imports during the same period fell
by 7 percent. As a result, the current account deficit was transformed to a
surplus of $165 million. Inflation also dropped perceptibly to 9 percent.
This was partly due to slack domestic demand but also due to stringent price
controls.
10.       A strong upturn i5in economic activity driven by a revival in invest-
ment activity began in mi4>1976 and has continued since.  There was a rapid
increase in money suppli,- in 1976. Enterprises began to adjust to the new
financial and accounting system introduced early in 1976 which, through
increasing financial accountability of enterprises, had been an important
factor in dampening the level of economic activity in early 1976. GDP is
estimated to have grown by 8.1 percent and the industrial sector by 9.6 per-
cent in 1977. This upturn led to a revival of inflationary pressure and a
sharp deterioration in the balance of payments situation. Inflation increased
to 13 percent, exports declined in real terms by 4 percent and imports rose
by 15 percent. The current account recorded a deficit of $1.6 billion. There
was some slackening in the level of economic activity in 1978. GDP is esti-
mated to have increased by 6.6 percent despite a drop in agricultural produc-
tion of 5 percent due to adverse weather conditions. The current account
deficit is estimated to have fallen to around $1.0 billion. The rate of
inflation is estimated to be 13 percent. Policies for 1979 aim at maintaining
a 6 percent growth in GDP, a 5 percent growth of exports, a 2 percent growth
in imports and a current account deficit of around $1.2 billion. Preliminary
trends in 1979 indicate that although the economy has continued to grow
rapidly, growth has been associated with a rapidly deteriorating balance-of-
payments situation. This has been a consequence of a sharp revival in demand
for imports following a year in which import volume declined and has been
exacerbated by the rise in the price of oil and less favorable prospects for
tourism following the devastating earthquake of April 15 in the coastal areas
of Montenegro. Oil price increases are likely to add a further $0.5 billion
to the import bill in 1979. This, and the anticipated more rapid growth of
imports than exports, is likely to lead to a sharp deterioration in the
current account deficit to over $2 billion in 1979. Furthermore, the rate of
inflation has risen sharply. Producer prices rose by 17 percent on an annual
basis during the first eight months of 1979. As a result a price freeze was
introduced in August 1979. This, and the anticipated slow growth of the
economy should lead to a reversal of the rising inflationary trend.
11.       Despite the uneven growth rate of GDP since 1974, employment has
expanded steadily and rapidly. An important factor in this has been the
social pressure on enterprises to create additional work places.  Employment



grew by 4.5 percent per annum between 1974 and 1978. Labor productivity has,
as a result, grown little during this period. Since real personal incomes
have continued to rise, unit labor costs have risen.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.       The external events of 1973 and 1974 had an important impact on
Yugoslavia's medium-term outlook, particularly in two areas. The first was
the balance of payments. The sharp increase in the price of oil led to a
sudden increase in the country's import bill. More importantly, the decline
in the number of Yugoslav workers abroad inhibited the growth of workers'
remittances, which acccunt for about one fifth of Yugoslavia's foreign exchange
earnings. The prospects for growth of merchandise exports also deteriorated
because of the slower growth in Western Europe. The balance of payments con-
sequently became a more: binding constraint on economic growth. The second
area was employment. External migration was a key factor in allowing the
low-productivity, privaLte agricultural labor force to decline rapidly between
1965-73. Return of Yugoslav workers placed considerable pressure on the labor
market and in particular the social sector, which is the main source of new jobs.
13.       The policy response to these issues was the 1976-80 Five Year
Plan which foresaw important structural changes to deal with the new external
circumstances. On the question of the balance of payments, Yugoslavia,
by and large, opted for the import substitution route. To ensure greater
self-sufficiency the Plan called for a major restructuring of the economy
with emphasis on raw materials and intermediate goods, and particularly the
power sector. Included in the priority sectors were basic chemicals, ferrous
metallurgy, parts of non-ferrous metallurgy, agriculture, food processing and
inter-republic transportation. These were areas where production had lagged
and where import dependency had increased most after 1965, despite consider-
able possibilities for local production. Rapid expansion of employment
opportunities remained one of the key objectives of the plan. To compensate
for the generally more capital-intensive investments involved in developing
raw materials and intermediate goods, a number of measures were introduced to
ensure a sufficiently rapid growth of employment opportunities. Emphasis was
placed on development of labor-intensive activities and small scale industry.
An employment policy was adopted to facilitate an orderly growth of work
opportunities in existing enterprises. New incentives were also provided
to the private sector to encourage investment in productive activities. These
measures were expected to lead to a 3-4 percent growth in modern sector work
places. Such a growth would be sufficient to absorb returning migrants and
some outflow of workers from the agricultural sector albeit at a slower pace
than in the past decade.
14.       To achieve these objectives the plan foresaw a growth in GDP of
7.0 percent. Exports were projected to rise by 8.5 percent in constant
dollars. However, imports were projected to rise by only 4.5 percent reflect-
ing the significant degree of import substitution anticipated. Such a sharp
fall in import growth, however, appeared somewhat excessive and not likely to
be attainable during the plan period. Consequently, if Yugoslavia adhered to
the ceiling it set in the plan on the level of indebtedness and debt service
ratio, a somewhat more modest overall economic growth rate of 5-6 percent was
likely to be achieved.



-6-
15.       Developments in the first three years of the plan period have been
mixed. The economy has grown rapidly as planned (average annual growth of
of GDP of 6.2 percent) and modern sector employment opportunities have also
increased significantly. However, merchandise export growth at 2.6 percent
per annum has been very disappointing. The current account deficit has been
kept in check by limiting merchandise import growth to 1.8 percent per annum
since 1976.  Despite this, external indebtedness has increased significantly
and will be further exacerbated with the anticipated deterioration in the
balance-of-payments situation in 1979.  Thus, although the economy is likely
to achieve a 5-6 percent overall economic growth rate for the period 1976-80,
the balance-of-payments situation is worse than anticipated. Consequently to
deal with the deteriorating balance-of-paymenats situation Yugoslavia will need
to accept a more moderate medium-term growth target and instigate policies
designed to improve the country's export performance. Based on the recent
trends in external borrowing and our balance--of-payments projections, Yugo-
slavia is expected, even with slower growth, to experience gradually rising
debt service ratios in the early 1980s. The Yugoslavs, aware of the balance-
of-payments situation, are presently introducing stabilization measures to
curb the rate of economic growth. They are also in the process of reassessing
the economy's medium-term growth targets.
16.       Finally, the reduction of regional disparities is also a priority
objective of the plan. The previous financial transfer mechanism continues
as the principal instrument for regional devielopment. However, in addition
to this, provisions have been made for direct joint venture investment by
enterprises in the developed, into the less dleveloped regions. This measure
is expected to facilitate a transfer of managerial and technological know-how
in addition to the financial transfers of the past few years. The regional
problem, however, is expected to remain as one of the least tractable issues
facing the Yugoslav economy and one that will only be resolved in the longer
run.
Creditworthiness
17.       In the period 1974-77 gross capital inflows averaged just over $2.0
billion per annum increasing the total level of medium- and long-term debt
outstanding and disbursed to $8.9 billion by the end of 1977. About 75 per-
cent of Yugoslavia's debt contracted during this period was contracted from
commercial sources in convertible currencies. The bulk of this has been
suppliers credits though financial credits in the Euro-currency market have
become increasingly important in financing the economy's residual external
capital needs. The World Bank is the principal source of non-commercial
long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to need substantial
credits in the commercial markets to achieve its medium-term economic objec-
tives. The debt service ratio averaged 17 between 1974-78. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to over 20 in the early 1980s in spite of lower
anticipated growth rates of GDP. Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record,
pragmatism and demonstrable control over the balance of payments, Yugoslavia
remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.        The Bank has made 57 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,337
million. Of this amount, approximately 44 percent ($1,025.4 million) has
been for 19 loans for the transportation sector--11 for highways, 5 for rail-
ways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port
project. Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including,
in addition to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunica-
tions loan, two water supply and sewerage, a drainage and five multipurpose
loans (two of which include substantial irrigation components). Seven loans
totalling $394 million (about 17 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia)
have been made for agriculture (including two for irrigation and one for
drainage) and agro-industries. Fourteen loans amounting to $300 million (about
13 percent of the total) have also been made for industry and two for tourism
amounting to $30 million. The $27 million first Bank loan for air pollution
control was approved May 25, 1976.  In addition, IFC has made investments in
twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling about $172 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Loans and IFC investments as of September 30, 1979
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.        The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remai.n essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i)  to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(iii) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the LDRs, but the
1/   Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Highways (Report No. P-2622-YU) of August 31, 1979.



- 8 -
basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has increasingly been
towdards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural sector in particular.
20.        The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank 'has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. Moreover, lending to regions other than
the LDRs frequently has had as its basis the alleviation of disparities be-
tween the urban and rural areas. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ab:ility of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.        In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro).  These regional surveys, coupled with
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.        Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as the
Tenth Highway Project (approved March 27, 1979), the Bosanska-Krajina Agricul-
ture and Agro-Industries Project (approved October 5, 1978), the Macedonia
Strezevo Irrigation Project (approved August 8, 1978) and the Third and Fourth
Industrial Credit Projects (approved July 11, 1978), as well as operations
envisaged for LDRs over the next two years, including loans for water supply
and sewerage and multipurpose water resource and agricultural development,
emphasize our continuing orientation to the needs of the LDRs. Previously
approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a Fifth Railway Project (Fiscal
Year 1978) and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project (also Fiscal Year 1978),
as well as the Second Power Transmission Project approved in Fiscal Year 1977,
will both assist the LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and
energy sectors. A recently approved (September 4, 1979) Croatia Sava Drainage
Project will increase incomes of the disadvantaged rural population in a
relatively well developed region and reduce the disparities in incomes between
the rural and urban population. IFC is currently investigating several new
investment opportunities to encourage joint ventures which would provide
technical, management and marketing expertise as well as long-term capital.



- 9 -
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearlv recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient suppor: in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for agricultural credits, irriga-
tion and rural development will support agriculture development in general and
in particular, the individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
In order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intends
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the c,mplexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing *ntermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all Republics/Provinces.



- 10 -
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the
Yugoslavs are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to
Western financial markets and institutions (including the European Investment
Bank), there is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The
Bank, therefore, remains a major source of Long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not
only constitutes the largest source of long--term external capital but, equally
important, is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of
international confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounted to 8.5 percent of Yugoslavia's
total debt, outstanding and disbursed in 1979.  The outstanding debt to
the Bank is expected to remain a fairly stable ratio of Yugoslavia's total
debt outstanding and disbursed. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service was 5.3 percent and is projected to be about 6 percent by
1980.
PART III - THE 1979 EARTHQUAKE 1/
Background
29.       On April 15, 1979 at 7:19 a.m. local time a devastating earthquake
measuring IX on the modified Mercalli Intensity Scale (MCS) with an epicenter
on the Adriatic coastline of Montenegro near Kotor, hit Yugoslavia. Five
more earthquakes of over VII MCS, as well as hundreds of lesser after-shocks,
struck the same area thereafter, with the last quake, an VIII MCS, on May 24,
1979. During this period earth tremors of strong intensity were felt in
most of the area of Montenegro, the southeastern parts of S.R. Croatia, the
S.R. Bosnia-Herzegovina, as well as the northern part of Albania (see Map
IBRD 14637).
1/   Part III of this report is substantially unchanged from Part III of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Montenegro Earthquake
Rehabilitation Project--Highways (Report No. P-2622-YU of August 31,
1979. Some updating has been provided in those paragraphs related to the
railways and ports sector to take account of updated information.



Earthquake Damage, General
30.       The physical consequences of the earthquake were most evident along
the total length of thes Montenegrin coastline in a belt 10 to 12 km wide. In
this area over one hundlred people lost their lives and about 500 people were
injured as a result of the earth tremors. The casualties could well have been
much higher except for the fact that the major shock was preceded by one of
lesser intensity which served as a warning, that April 15 was not a business
day (it was a Sunday) and that the major tourist season was not yet underway.
31.       The earthquake seriously damaged the basic infrastructure of the
area.  The basic transport system, schools, hospitals, houses, hotels, indus-
trial plants, apartment buildings, cultural-historical monuments, the water
supply system, and the electric and telegraph-telephone grid were all exten-
sively and heavily damaged. The full extent of this damage has not, even now,
been ascertained. However over 12,500 of the approximately 60,000 housing
units in the area were destroyed, and a further 12,000 heavily damaged. Over
4,000 industrial buildings, schools, hospitals, hotels, etc., were completely
destroyed and about 3,000 more severely damaged. The total area of these
7,000 structures amounts to about 1.25 million square meters. About one-
quarter of Montenegro's primary and secondary road system, which totals some
3,500 km of roads, was heavily damaged, including almost the entire length of
the Adriatic Highway situated in Montenegro and almost all the other main
roads (about 600 km total) in the area. The Republic's main rail line, its
main port and the area's airport were also heavily damaged. The ancient
cities of Kotor, Budva and Herceg-Novi, which are important cultural and
tourist attractions were all heavily damaged and much of this historical area
may be beyond repair.
32.       The earthquake dealt a devastating blow to the tourist industry,
coming just before the season was to start in an area which contained more
than 90 percent of the Republic's 125,000 tourist beds. The damage to the
road network and the railway from Titograd to Bar as well as to the airport
at Tivat resulted in a situation immediately after April 15 in which the only
possilble communication between the Montenegrin coast and the rest of the coun-
try was by radio railway's communications system, and helicopters. Although
land communication was partially restored within a few days, and largely
maintained even after subsequent earth shocks, economic activity has been
severely curtailed. More than 5,000 people who would ordinarily be employed
in the tourist industry are now unemployed.
33.       Overall the economic consequences of the earthquakes are critical
to Montenegro which is one of the least developed regions in Yugoslavia. This
lag in development has been due in large measure to the topography which not
only makes communication to and within the region difficult and costly to
build and maintain but which also dictated the historical development of the
main terrestrial transport links to the north and east of the region. How-
ever, during the last two decades the Government has made major efforts to
improve transportation to and within Montenegro through the construction of
four major transport projects, including the Adriatic Highway along the coast,
a major highway linking the Adriatic Highway and the Port of Bar with Titograd,



- 12 -
-he capital of S.R. Montenegro, and eastern Yugoslavia, the Belgrade-Bar rail-
way and a modern port at Bar. All but the highway from Titograd to the coast,
which was built with the financial assistance of USAID were components of Bank
financed projects.  All were heavily damaged in the April 15 and subsequent
earthquakes. Specific damage to the terrestrial transport modes and the Port
of Bar are briefly detailed below.
Earthquake Damage, Highways
34.       Although the road maintenance services and civil engineering con-
tractors of Montenegro, aided by the Yugoslav army, were able to get limited
traffic movement along most highway links within a few days after the first
earthquake, the further earthquakes between April 15 and May 24, 1979 brought
additional damage to infrastructure generally and the road network specific-
ally, again closing major sections of coastal and inland routes for various
time periods. However, traffic-blocking debris has now been cleared on the
main roads and some temporary detours have been constructed around those areas
too badly damaged to handle any roadway traffic, with the result that most
roads have been opened to at least limited traffic (passage by truck trailers
is still widely restricted).
35.       Many damaged road sections are extremely vulnerable to further
damage where the earthquakes have disrupted drainage systems and/or did other
structural damage leaving the sections open to water intrusion. Although
Montenegro (and the rest of Yugoslavia) had an extremely dry summer, it was
imperative that certain remedial work be undertaken before the rainy season
started in the fall.
36.       Of all the roads damaged by the earthquakes the most important is
the Adriatic Highway, which is the main national and international route and
which services the major tourist area in Montenegro. Also heavily damaged
were the major east-west road from Titograd, the Republic's capital, to the
Port of Bar on the coast and from Cetinje, the cultural center and ancient
capital of Montenegro, to Budva, a tourist center on the coast. In addition
many of the regional as well as local and access roads, particularly around
Kotar and Ulcinj, were heavily damaged.
Earthquake Damage, Railroad
37.       The April 15 earthquake severely damaged about 40 km of the Lutovo-
Titograd-Bar section of the Belgrade-Bar line and about 10 km of the Titograd-
Niksic branch line. The five major earth tremors that followed did further
damage so that some 33 km of the main line was corrugated, with irregularities
up to 65 cm.  About 6 km of track had to be renewed completely because of
damage caused by falling rocks on the line. These rocks made renewal of 3 km
and repairs of 20 km of the overhead contact line system necessary. The sig-
nalling system on the Titograd-Bar section and the Ostiog and Bare Sumanovica
tunnels near Niksic also suffered considerable damage. In 6 km of the Sozina
tunnel the basic geometry has been distorted and water seepage stopped
temporarily the use of electrical traction. At the 200 m long Skadar Lake



1,,
bridge a lateral movement downward of one side oI 12 cm has been noted, and at
the 80 m long Moraca River bridge a similar movement of both sides of 2 and 9
cm and a transversal movement of 4 to 6 cm has occurred. The total exter,t
of the damage to the bridges is still under investigation, and underwater
inspection of the foundation is being carried out to verify the extent of
the damage. Emergency repairs enabled train traffic to be restored after
13 days but with speed restrictions on bridges (10 km/h) and in areas with
unstable slopes (20 km/h). These restrictions are now raised to 20 and 30
km/h awaiting final investigations and repair of the damage. Building of
galleries, anchoring of rocks, installing steel nets with signalling devices
and repair of drainage systems are major works still to be done to protect the
line in unstable areas. A number of railroad stations have suffered damage,
in particular those at Zeta, Virpazan and Sutomore; the last one is so badly
damaged that it has to be rebuilt. The locomotive depot at Bar was destroyed;
other railway buildings are heavily damaged but can be repaired. RTO Titograd
has apartment buildings for its workers in Titograd, Sutomore and Bar. The
buildings in Sutomore with 36 apartments are badly damaged but can be repaired.
Three buildings in Bar with 70 apartments have to be demolished and rebuilt.
One locomotive and 13 freight wagons are so heavily damaged that repair is not
economical.
Earthquake Damage, Port of Bar
38.       As a conseqtLence of the earthquake, all structures - breakwaters,
quay walls, transit sheds, storage areas and administrative buildings in the
Port of Bar were damaged in varying degrees from minor cracks to total destruc-
tion. Both breakwaters and all quay walls sustained extensive damage partic-
ularly to underwater sections. The quay walls of the older Pier II area have
been so extensively damaged and buckled as to be inoperable and only safe for
reduced and restricted operations. The newer, Bank-financed, quays of the
Pier I area sustained considerable damage but can be rehabilitated without
major demolition and -rebuilding.  The non-mineral oil tanks, under construc-
tion, received only minor damage. A heave of the access channel in the port
left some 450,000 m3 of spoil above the previous bed level thereby reducing
the operational depth of the port by 0.5 meters. Mechanical equipment such as
portal quay cranes, and the Bank-financed container and bulk-handling equip-
ment all "jumped the tracks" with consequent excessive stress and deformation
of structural members. One 8 ton crane was completely destroyed. All port
services - water, eleatricity, drainage, telephones, etc. were put out of
operation. The Volujica Hill, next to the bulk-cargo berths, produced several
rock-slides which covered roads, railway sidings and part of the adjacent
storage area.
Economic Implications of Earthquake Damage
39.       The direct economic implications of the earthquakes are obvious.
A great deal of expensive infrastructure has been damaged and destroyed and
will have to be repaired or replaced in one form or another. In addition,
essential economic activity has been interrupted and slowed& To the extent
that a return to normal activity depends on the restoration of the damaged
and cestroyed infrast'rucure, there are further, time-related, econom-ic costs



- 14 -
(losses). A case in point, which also serves to illustrate the interdepend-
ence of the necessary remedial works, is the international tourist industry
which is basic to Montenegro's economy. 1978 was a record year for tourism
in Yugoslavia and since, prior to the earthquakes, advance bookings for 1979
were about 15 percent ahead of equivalent 1978 advance bookings, Yugoslavia
generally and Montenegro, in particular, were expecting a substantially
improved tourist season and contribution to foreign exchange earnings. The
earthquakes damaged a considerable amount of the direct tourist superstructure
in Montenegro (hotels, restaurants, historical buildings, etc.). Although
a good deal of this superstructure suffered only repairable damage, the opera-
tion of these hotels, restaurants, etc., depends on the rehabilitation of the
damaged water supply systems and electric grid system. But even when remedial
work on these items of infrastructure is made, the tourists will still have to
get to the hotels, restaurants, etc., and this will depend on remedial work
on the damaged transport system. Further, the repairs to the water systems,
electric grid, etc., will, themselves, depend in large measure on an ade-
quately functioning transport system. As a result the tourism industry is
virtually at a standstill and can only be expected to recover gradually as
repairs are made in all the related sectors.
40.       Obviously, then, there is a basic interrelationship among the
various classes of infrastructure and the minimization of time-related
economic loss depends on prompt remedial action in many sectors. However,
equally obvious, the restoration of the bas:Lc land transport network is the
sine qua non of economic recovery. In this context another example both of
interdependence and the critical need to restore the land transport network
involves the Port of Bar. This port, severely damaged by the earthquake, not
only is the major seaport for all of southern Yugoslavia, but is also a major
entrepot for Belgrade and the industrial and agricultural area surrounding
the capital. Prompt restoration of effective port operations is not only
critical to the economy of Montenegro but to that of southern Yugoslavia as a
whole. Yet the restoration of the port in large part depends on reestablish-
ment of the rail and highway links to the port from Titograd and thence to the
rest of the country, both in terms of mobilizing the necessary materials and
labor for repairs and in the movement of goods into and out of the port.
Request for Special Bank Lending
41.       The Government of Yugoslavia has requested the Bank to provide
financial assistance for the rehabilitation of the earthquake damage in S.R.
Montenegro, one of the four LDRs in Yugoslavia. Assessment of the cost of
physical damage is well advanced but still proceeding. Present indications
are that the final estimate may well be as high as $3.5 billion. In addition
the economy of the Republic will suffer a severe loss of earning capacity,
both currently and for several years to come, as a result of the damage to the
tourist facilities and the industries in the region of Bar.
42.       A law providing funds for reconstruction was published in the Offi-
cial Gazette of SFRY on July 27, 1979. This legislation specifies interim
contributions to be deposited by each of the Republics and Autonomous Prov-
inces into a Reconstruction Fund (Fund) to be established by S.R. Montenegro.
These interim contributions amounting to Din 5 billion (US$267.4 million) will



1 *
be paid into the Fund in equal installments at the end of August, October and
December 1979. The law also provides that the total contributions to be
eventually made will be determined, on the basis of final damage estimates,
and enacted into law by December 15, 1979.  Provision is also made for equal
contributions to be prDvided monthly in 1980 and that these, and any further
contributions which may subsequently be provided, will be increased by an
amount equal to the increase in the consumer price index for the preceding
year. S.Ro Montenegro has passed legislation establishing the Fund on
July 31, 1979 and has thereafter earmarked funds for specific sectors of
rehabilitation. A large proportion of the interim contributions are being
earmarked for housing and rehabilitation of the transport sector. Additional
contributions received and being sought from other domestic and interna-
tional sources will also be channelled through the Funde Both SFRY and S.R.
Montenegro are convinced that financial assistance provided by the Bank would
serve as a catalyst for obtaining other external assistance. Discussions with
a number of countries and agencies who have expressed interest are underway.
43.       In addition to its direct financial contribution, SFRY has under-
taken to service the domestic and foreign debt of enterprises struck by the
earthquake and will provide supplementary financing for social services.
44.       In view of t:he Bank's past substantial financial assistance to and
depth of knowledge of the transport sector in Montenegro, it is proposed that
loans totalling $85 m:Lllion should be made for specific projects for the
rehabilitation of highways, the Titograd-Bar railroad and the Port of Bar.
These proposals will cover specifically identified works in an effort to
ensure that the loans can be used effectively and quickly.
45.       Several Bank transportation missions have visited the area and have
reviewed the damage and the Republic's rehabilitation plans. The detailed
assessment of damage and the reconstruction plans have already been made for
the highways, the railways and the Port of Bar. Because the damage at the
Port of Bar is severe, the design and layout of the original facilities are
being reviewed with a view to ensuring that the reconstruction will provide
the optimal means of 'handling present and future traffic.
46.       Highway rehabilitation being urgent both to permit restoration
of normal economic activity and to prevent further damage which would have
occurred during the next rainy season if essential repairs were not completed
promptly, a loan of US$21 million for highways rehabilitation was approved by
the Board on September 18, 1979 and signed on September 21, 1979. This
represented the first part of the total rehabilitation loans of US$85 million
for the transport sector. Specific projects suitable for Bank financing in
railways and the Port of Bar are now recommended for US$14 million and US$50
million respectively.



- 16 -
PART TV - THE PROJECT
Background
47.       As described earlier, the series of earthquakes had a devastating
effect on the Southern Adriatic coastal area (see Map, IBRD 14637). Because
of their proximity to the epicenter, the town and port at Bar were exten-
3 ively damaged. Out of a total population in the area of 32,000, some 22,000
were rendered homeless when about 48 percenit of the housing was destroyed or
rendered unsafe for habitation.
48.       In the Port of Bar (see Map, IBRD 10916-R), all structures (break-
waters, quay walls, transit sheds, storage areas and administration building)
were damaged in varying degrees from minor cracks to total destruction. Both
breakwaters and all quay walls sustained extensive damage, particularly under-
water. The quay walls at the old Pier II were so heavily damaged as to be
inoperable. The newer Bank-financed Pier I sustained considerable damage, but
can be restored without -vajor demolition and rebuilding.  The operational
depth of the port has been reduced by 0.5 meters, and mechanical equipment--
such as quay cranes, container crane and bulk handling equipment--suffered
stress and deformation. All port services were put out of operation and the
Volujica hill, next to the bulk cargo berths, produced rock slides which
covered roads, railway sidings and adjacent storage areas. Virtually all con-
tainer and general cargo traffic has ceased because of non-availability of
equipment and working areas. This traffic is being handled through the ports
of Rijeka and Koper, both longer and less economical routes for serving Bar's
hinterland.
Immediate Action Program
49.       After the first earthquake, all ships were ordered from the port,
and the port was closed to shipping for three days. Safety and salvage
security measures were carried out: fires were extinguished, services tempo-
rarily restored, buildings made secure, cargo protected from the weather and
dangerous areas roped off. Efforts were directed to clearing rocks and debris
from working areas and to removing quay cranes from damaged areas for inspec-
tion. Experts from technical institutes and specialist engineers were engaged
to undertake land and underwater surveys of the port. The provision of such
"first aid" measures cost about Din 270 million (US$14.4 million) which is not
covered by insurance because of "force majeure."
Short-Term Remedial Measures
50.       The objective of the Port of Bar Working Organization (PBWO) is to
res-o re efficient services in the Port of Bar as quickly and economically as
possible.  This is to be done with sufficient flexibility so as not to inhibit
the port's future development. The hinterland of the port is closelv linked
with Yugoslavia's industrial expansion, and PBWO sees -he presPnt disaster as
an opportunity to improve the facil'ities to ensure that the reconstruction
will provide the optimal means of handling present and future traffic.



- 17 -
51.       By the beginn:Lng of July 1979, PBWO had repaired and made available
a berth on the south side of Pier II for the import of scrap iron. Grain,
coal, phosphates, non-ferrous ores and iron ore continue to be handled to a
limited extent at the bulk cargo berths; work on building the grain silos
(Loan 1060-YU) is about to resume. Vehicular and passenger ferries to Greece
and Italy continue to ply from the damaged passenger berth on the lee break-
water. These examples indicate the energetic and commendable efforts to get
the port working, albeit to a limited extent due to lack of equipment and
working areas and resultant low productivity and inefficient services.
The Project
52.       The proposed project was appraised by the mission that visited
Yugoslavia in August 1979. Negotiations were held in Washington with a
Yugoslav delegation led by Mr. Veselin Djuranovic, President of Republican
Committee for Transport, S.R. Montenegro, from October 24-29, 1979. The
project scope, dimensions and cost estimates are based on the "Report on
Earthquake Effects and Possible Ways of Port of Bar Rehabilitation," prepared
by PBWO with' the assistance of local experts, as reviewed and modified by the
Bank.
Objectives
53.       The objective of the project is to rehabilitate and restore port
capacity to enable the port to handle bulk and general cargo traffic generated
by industrial development within the port's hinterland. To achieve this
objective the project consists mainly of:
(a) Repair and restoration of port facilities and equipment that
can be repaired economically;
(b) Provision of new facilities and equipment both to partially
replace those which are damaged beyond repair and handle
short-term requirements; and
(c) Technical assistance required to assist PBWO in the implementa-
tion of the project.
Scope and Dimensions of the Project
54.       As the present project covers only short-term development to enable
the port to handle current and short-term projected traffic, berthing capacity
requirements were analyzed as follows:
(a) Before the earthquake, the port was able to accommodate about
18 ships; at, present, berthing capacity is reduced to 12 berths,
some of them operating under hazardous conditions. With the
project the port will have 14 berths fully operational.
(b)  Before the earthquake the 18 berths were used as follows:  nine
for general cargo, two for bulk cargo, two for cement, four for
passenger and car ferry traffic and one for petroleum products.



- 18 -
(c)  At present, the nine berths for traffic other than general cargo
continue to operate as formerly, but some to a limited extent;
only three of the original nine general cargo berths are cur-
rently in service; the other six were so severely damaged that
only one of them can be repaired economically;
(d) The proposed project includes the restoration of 13 berths,
breakwaters and Volujica hill and repair of services and work-
ing areas, the constructiorn of one general cargo berth, and the
extension of about 100 m that, added to the existing 391 m of
bulk cargo berths, will ensure that two 65,000 dwt bulk carriers
can be accommodated simultaneously, the repair of cargo-handling
equipment and acquisition of additional port equipment.
55.       Berthing capacity analysis shows also that the two existing special-
ized cement berths are underutilized. Having a narrow quay apron and no back-
up areas, the possibility of utilization to handle other kinds of traffic is
unlikely.
56.       A summary of available berths and use is given below:
Before
the                     With
Berth per type                          earth-                 Proposed
of commodity                           quake      Present    Project
Passenger ships and car ferries            4           4          4
General cargo                              9           3          5
Bulk cargo                                 2           2          2
Cement                                     2           2          2
Tankers                                    1           1          1
Total                                     18          12         14
A detailed description of the project (see Map, IBRD 14630) is contained
in Annex IV. It is expected that the project would be completed by June 30,
1982.
57.       A further review of national port capacity requirements is being
undertaken in the ongoing national port sector planning study, in which the
Bank is involved. An agreement has been obtained from the Borrower to ensure
that any study for the future development of the Port of Bar will be carried
out in coordination with this national port sector planning study and that the
results of future development studies for the Port of Bar would be reviewed
with the Bank before undertaking other major investments in the Port of Bar
(Loan Agreement, Section 4.07).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
58.       The estimated cost of the port rehabilitation project is Din 2,334
million (US$124.8 million equivalent) excluding customs duties on imported



- 19 -
goods which amount to 20-30 percent ad valorem. The foreign exchange cost
component is estimated to be US$60.9 million, or about 49 percent of total
cost. The project cost estimates are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary and Annex V presents them in the standard appraisal format. The esti-
mate includes provision for physical contingencies, which amount to 10-25
percent due to the nature of the works, and provision for price escalation on
the basis of 12 percenl: annually for local costs over the next two years and 7
percent for foreign costs.
59.       The Bank loan of US$50.0 million equivalent would finance 82 percent
of the foreign exchange component, and the SR Montenegro Reconstruction Fund
would provide the balance of US$10.9 million equivalent and the local costs
of US$63.9 million equivalent.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Project content and description (see Annex IV) show that some of the
project items are either limited in scope, involve a diversity of detailed
works, and/or the exact nature of the works and consequently the unit prices
cannot be defined until construction is under way. Under this category, the
following items have been identified as not being suitable for Bank financing
and consequently have been excluded from the loan: dredging; repair of build-
ings, of port workers' houses and of transit sheds.
61.       The extension of Pier I and of Volujica wharf (bulk cargo berth)
will be financed by the Bank. These works may be procured under an extension
of an existing contract after negotiations on the basis of updated unit prices
of that contract and on terms and conditions, all satisfactory to the Bank
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 4 C(a)).
62.       Trimming back the Volujica hill to a safe profile involves removal of
about 450,000 cubic meters of rocks, part of which will be used to repair the
breakwaters and the rest to reclaim the backup area of the Pier 1 extension.
Since these works are closely related to each other and in view of the urgent
need to start the works as soon as possible, the corresponding contract would
be awarded by an extension of the existing contract with the resident Yugoslav
contractor through negotiations on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
63.       All other contracts for civil works should be awarded following ICB
procedures, but contracts for civil works under US$1 million can be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
PBWO's procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
64.       The various items of equipment, damaged and able to be repaired in
the port, could be entrusted to the original suppliers through negotiated
contracts satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4(c)), in order
that compatibility is assured and responsibility for satisfactory performance
remains with the original contractor.
65.       Procurement. of bulk-handling equipment consistent with the char-
acteristics of existing equipment procured under the present Bank loan should
follow ICB procedures.



- 20 -
66.       Other cargo-handling equipment and tugboats, if new, should be
procured under ICB. However, due to the emergency conditions PBWO should
be allowed to canvass the international market to seek suitable second-
hand tugboats and cranes that can be delivered on short notice. In that
case direct purchases should be accepted by the Bank provided prices are
favorable and technical evaluation of the equipment offered is satisfactory
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4C(d)).
67.       Disbursements from the loan account will be on the basis of the
foreign exchange component of the various items as follows:
(a)  for civil works:              41 percent of total expenditures;
(b)  for equipment:                100 percent of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment (C.I.F. prices) and
100 percent of local expenditures for
locally manufactured equipment (ex-
factory prices);
(c)  for equipment repairs:        100 percent of total expenditures.
It is expected that the loan would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1982.
The Loan and Project Execution
68.       The loan would be made to the Port of Bar Working Organization
(PBWO) in an amount of US$50.0 million on standard Bank terms and would be
guaranteed by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY). A condi-
tion of loan effectiveness would be that the Republic of Montenegro will have
adopted decisions or given assurances satisfactory to the Bank for the
financing for the rehabilitation program, including a guarantee to cover
possible cost overruns (Section 7.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement). Supervision
of the repair and rehabilitation works would be effected by the Borrower, who
has agreed to expand its present engineering and support staff, who will be
assisted by Yugoslav specialists and by consultants (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02). The Investment Bank of Titograd (IBT) would act as fiscal agent for
the Bank loan and the Fund proceeds, and the signing of an agreement to this
effect between PBWO and IBT would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).
Retroactive Financing
69.       In order that the Bank may assist as fully as possible PBWO's
earthquake rehabilitation efforts, expenditures as determined in agreement
with the Bank incurred for the emergency works, on or after April 15, 1979 up
tc the time of loan signature, not expected to exceed US$2.0 million, will
be eligible for financing under the loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).
Project Risk and Environment
70.       Since the project is designed to restore the Port of Bar, no addi-
tional environmental hazard is involved. A potential risk, the magnitude of



- 21 -
which cannot be foreseen, is that further subsidence of quay walls and break-
waters may occur. But the project contingency element would provide to
a reasonable extent for additional works to reduce the potential for damage
resulting from future earthquakes. PBWO and its consultants will ensure that
structural designs will be in accordance with appropriate seismic design
criteria, in conformity with Montenegrin legislation in effect (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.02(a)).
Economic Assessment
71.       The hinterland of the Port of Bar covers about half the territory of
Yugoslavia, and half its population. It includes two of the less-developed
regions in the country (SR Montenegro and SAP Kosovo) and also most of Serbia
(including Belgrade) an(d Macedonia. A large part of Yugoslavian industry is
located within the port's hinterland, particularly steel and fertilizer plants
and other mineral industries which depend on the port for both imports and
exports. The main trafEic centers within the hinterland are about 200-500 kms
closer, by overland routes, to the port of Bar compared to alternative Adriatic
ports like Rijeka and Ploce.
72.       The Port of Bar and the Belgrade-Bar railway cannot be treated in
isolation; they are interdependent. They were planned and constructed over
the past two decades or so, mainly with a view to opening up and developing
the less-developed regions like Montenegro and to boost the economy of eastern
Yugoslavia. Unless both are repaired and restored the initial investment
in these facilities of about US$800 million (1979 prices) and the benefits
stemming therefrom will largely be lost. The cost of repairing and restoring
the port and the railway is estimated to be approximately US$180 million. The
economic benefits from the rehabilitation investment would consist of increased
production and income in the region from their present depressed levels.
Given the large investment in existing facilities they may be assumed to be
high.
73.       In the absence of the proposed port investments in Bar, it is
conservatively estimated that a minimum of 1.5 million tons of traffic would
have to be diverted from the port of Bar through other ports (mainly Rijeka
and Ploce) by about 1985. Such traffic would have to be carried overland over
a much longer route into Bar's hinterland (average additional distance, 300
km or more per ton of cargo) involving higher transport costs. In addition,
such diversion would render superfluous a good part of the railway and road
capacity built up at high cost from Bar to its hinterland. A more compelling
fact is that to handle such extra traffic, additional capacity would have to
be created in the alternative ports as well as in the overland rail routes
(in view of the absence of any spare capacity), which together would require
a much higher investment than now proposed for rehabilitating the port of Bar
and its railway links. Moreover, use of a more distant port on a regular
basis would hinder the further growth of the industries in the immediate
hinterland of the port of Bar. The initial development of the port of Bar
facilities financed by the Bank was precisely to avoid such a costly diversion
of potential traffic. These factors underline the basic justification for the
proposed port rehabilitation.



- 22 -
74'        It should be added that the proposed project does not seek to
restore all the facilities damaged or destroyed by the earthquake, the objec-
tive being to restore only what is most essIential for the near future (up to
about 1985). For example, of the five general cargo berths destroyed on Pier
II, the reconstruction at a new location of only one berth is sought under
the project; at the same time the bulk-handling facilities would be further
improved over the pre-earthquake situation, mainly to accommodate the larger
bulk carriers now expected to come to the port and to handle bulk cargos more
efficiently. These changes are proposed because, judging from recent traffic
trends and short-term traffic prospects, it is clear that the port's facili-
ties should place more emphasis on bulk cargo than on general cargo which has
increased only slowly.
75.        The long delay in completing the Belgrade-Bar railway line (com-
pleted in 1978 as against the earlier schedule of 1972) has adversely affected
the build-up of traffic in the port of Bar, and therefore the port's traffic
has not so far reached the levels earlier projected for the Port of Bar Proj-
ect (Loan No. 1060-YU). The present rehabilitation is designed to meet a
modest growth projection starting from the levels reached in 1978 and 1979.
In 1978, the port's traffic was about 1.3 million tons, consisting of 0.4 mil-
lion tons of general cargo, 0.6 million tons of dry bulk cargo, and 0.3 million
tons of liquid bulk (mainly petroleum traffic). Traffic handled in the first
seven months in 1979, in spite of the dislocation due to the earthquake, has
been about 30 percent more than in the corresponding period in 1978. Indeed,
this volume of traffic in 1979 has been handled under great strain by stretch-
ing all available resources and working on a round-the-clock basis and also
working under some physical risks to the cargo and workers--all these because
of the emergency situation. The above increase in traffic in 1979 reflects
the gathering pace of traffic development through the port, which is expected
to continue.
76.        The proposed project is designed to handle an expected traffic of
about 0.5-0.6 million tons of general cargo, and about 1.5 million tons of
dry bulk cargo by 1985. While the dry bulk cargo facilities, with the pro-
posed modest improvements, are essential to handle this volume of traffic in
view of a variety of items involved, the port will have sufficient reserve
capacity to absorb a larger volume if needed.
Borrower's Finances
77.       While PBWO has been able to cover operating expenses including depre-
ciation, there is serious concern in PBWO, IBT and the Secretariat of Finance
and Economy of SR Montenegro regarding PBWO's cash flow situation in 1979 and
subsequent years. Delays in completing the railway marshalling yards at the
port previously imposed constraints on port capacity and on its earnings.
This situation has now been exacerbated by the earthquake and on present esti-
mates the port's own resources would be insufficient to meet existing debt
service commitments. These problems will continue to be addressed as part of
the Bank's supervision of Loan 1060-YU. However, as stated in para. 43, SFRY
has undertaken to service both the foreign and domestic loans of enterprises
affected by the earthquakes to the extent that this may be necessary.



- 23 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Port of Bar
Working Organization (PBWO); and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being dijstributed to Executive Directors separately.
79.       Provisions in the agreements of special interest are noted in para-
graphs 57 through 70 of this Report and the most important provisions are
listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of loan effectiveness
are described in paragraph 68 of the Report and set forth in Section 7.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement.  These conditions specify that:
(i)  the Republic of Montenegro has adopted decisions or given
guarantees in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
to cover the financing of the Project including cost over-
runs; and
(ii)  the agreements between Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) and
the Port of Bar Working Organization under which IBT is to
act as fiscal agent for the Project are in full force and
effect.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
hy Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 12, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                                      AMNEX I
-                          OS11VA -S0AL :!MCtICATOWS OUA SWEET                      Page  1  of  6
ALF,-1cr ZRaOULS "US.'D i. rcss
LA   AA f°USA.M SM.                                                           - 9IS- RCZ' !'S-      , -
.ceA.            125.4i                                                  sa*  S&M              ST -:!.iEil
ACEICUL.:7AL     143.2                                 VCST ALE1       C=OCRAPRro    ;N:O            C
19DS  lb    1970 /l ESMmTA  ib        uc;oa Ic   C7CL? !d      ZOUP I.
CYP 911 CAt'-.A (uS5)                 430.0       940.0    13) .0           2;06.3     1942.6       3t75.3
K5Y21C? C0NS.YS206 D9 U 
(X.LOG'iS OF COAL. ZjUVALUNT)      872.0       1459.0   201!i.0           2033.2     164.7       25:S.6
P0Ptt.A=rOq bY  7'.-AL ,:.kl:mC_
FoPnuahIc, !. iD-f-YAA v.Y.LLCS)     13.4        20.4      21.7
U1JAN iOPULATI.  (FEICMT 0  TOTAL) 27.9          34.8      38.4              4.3       53.2        n.
POPULATION . ?%C-02C5
oPVFuLA.-o  L  .-AR 2000 D.NLf65)                       2S .0
STATI0NART POCPLA2ION (MZLLICNS)                         29.0
1AA 5TATI6R! POP7CA?JION LS UACED                      2100
FPOPLATION 01SS 
PER 5Q. m.                        72.0         80.0      85'.0            81.5       28.2        23.5
PER SQ. >. AQICULTMAL LXTD    124.0           139.0     152.0            138.8      100.5        91.3
?O?LA.IO  AGE $12.2 (PERCENT)
0-1' 21S.                         30.5         27.4      25.0             25.6       35.4        33.3
15-6 ru.                           63.2         64.8      66.0            62.9        56.3        S7.5
65 usS. AID  ao=                    6.3          7.8       91.0            10.2        5.1         S.7
O9.ATI0N G&OWTK  AT2 (PETR )
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0       0.9              0.9        1.7         2.1
0134ff                             3.6          3.2       3.0              2.6        3.0
0108 SIM31    6TY. (P?l TM!00SA.MD)  24.0        19.0      1!.0             18.5       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEAT; RA2T  (P1R 2OiSAS)      10.0         9.0       9.0              9.2        9.1         8.2
3nSS REPKODarTtON 1ATE                1.4         1.3       1.1              1.2        1.8         1.9
fAMILY ?L.ASSfTG
ACC1TOtS, ASVAL (1HOUSA.XDS)         ..          ..        ..
USErs (UZERCIN  OF MASSE.   WO1t?M)    ..      59.0        ..
FOOD A-ND NllN =SCN
0D1EX Of FOCOD ?RCDUCtION
PER CAPI16 (1906-71-LO)           83.6         92.0     120.0            115.7      102.0        98.7
M CAPITA SU.P?LY oF
CALOitI'S (9!'RC11 OF
81QUIa L.N2S)                  115.0        124.0     136.0            134.2      120.8       112.7
PIOTEINS (t s3 pelt OAT)          91.0         92.0      97.5             95.4       r0.9        70.3
of WHICH ANIMAL &%M PCL.E       27.0         29.0      35.4            45.4        31.3
CL=  (6ACS 1-') 01Z-20X.Y 2AT.2      4.0          3.0       2.0              1.3        5.1         2.3
UALTR
LIFE  !PE11ASCy A.- 3112! (T--as)    62.0        67.7     .69.0             70.0       45.6        68.7
216ANT MORTALITY RATE (PCE
UISANO)                              88.0        55.5      35.0             31.5       45.5        20.8
ACCES5 T0 SAfE WAV2 (PZICZY?  0?
1OP1LATIONI)
TOTAL                                9. ..                 ..               .         9.6        73.9
I1                                   ..          ..        ..               ..       85.1 I      94 .6
*01                                 -.           ..        ..                        43.0        64.6
ACCESS 20 EfClZ?A DISPOSAL (PElCR
TOtAL                                 .          .         .                .        70.1
A                                    ..          ..        ..               ..       8.3
RAL                                 ...                    ..                         3.2          .
POPUtATION PEC  PETSZCZA1N         1400.0/1    1010.0     790.0            661.6     1343.2       981.8
POPULA.ZON PER .L'SINC PERSON      1330.0/f     410.0     390.0           677.1       765.0       397.8
POPWLAT:'O   PC1 KOSPITAL 3D
TOTAL                            200.0        170.0     170.0            180.1      197.6       240.6
U1U,S                               ..         70.0      70.0               ..      260.2
U.AL                                *-       1610.0    1770.0               ..     1055.0
AmaSS1ONs PER .9OSPTAL  3              ..        17.0      17.0             15.3       17.3        19.2
WOOSINC
AVELAOO E2S  Of ROUSE0C0D
TOTAL                              4.0          3.8       5.J               ..        4.7
LR-S                               3.3          3.2       3.3              ..         4.4
W301L                              4.4          4.3       4.1               .         3.1
ATELAaE NYL'1  OF PERSONS PUR ROOM
TOTAL                               1.6         1.4         .               ..        1..
ilN                                 1.7         1.3        ..               ..        1.2
3L'aL                          :.  1.3          1.5        ..               ..        1.2
ACCZSS -0 ELZCc7IC:TY (PE91116
Ot OWELLINCS)
TOTAL                             33.4         87.9        ..               ..         ...0
U11841                            92.7         98._. 4..1
RRAL'.1                           36.1         80.1        ,



-25-
ANNEX 1
TABLE IA
YJCOSLAV1A - SCAL ISDtCATORS OATA StXVTS                Page  2  of  6
IzF!2Z.NCO oiRCUPS  .sA Eo A7£ES
YUGOSLAVIA~,ts  aC:~   S?'A: 
.1S    SA.¶    ZZ60
AMME         SAM      W77 KlClE£t
40ST ALCE        CZOCkAPtC    XNCO0          DICOW2
1960 lb     1970 lb E  2TAVE /b        REC28 Ic   CROUP /t    CROL? it
SDUCATUON
A;USTEiD    OLL.SMT tATSCS
PRL2AZY:     SOTAL                  %.0         94.0       97.0            103.7       101.7        107.6
100.0        96.0      100.0            107.2       10.0.
MLALZ                 91.0         59.0       94.0            104.5       CJ
SECONDAR'Y:   TOTAL                 34.5        46.0       55.0             65.9        S1.2         39.7
lYLE                  43.0         50.0       59.0             70.3        56.4
MYALE                 24.0         42.0      50.0             62.2        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (: OF 1SZCONDART)  72.0          72.0       75.0             20.4        1U.3
PtrIL-EA-M RATT0
P1R6ARY                             33.0        24.0       22.0             26.7        27.1
SECONDAX                            13.0         27.0      30.0                ..       25.3
ADULT LITZRACY   T (PcnEjT)           77.0         53.0      85.0                         86.
CONSEQtO0N
PASSELCER CARS PER THOUSAND
OPUtATION                            3.0         35.0      50.3            105.5        53.4          8.1
ADIO LECZIVERS PEI 21SA0mD
POPULAtION                          05.0        163.0     210.0            233.7       225.9        210.3
TV  lCE?vm3S ?-I 210SAhD                                        I
POPUATION                            1.4        U.0       IU.0             14.0       102.6        117.7
Dt¶SPAPER (C"AXLT  C£LOMR
INTERESOr) CIRCULATION Z0n 
VEOUSAD POPUILATON                    69.0         t5.0      89.0                .        785.3
CT3UESA AMUAL AT1N1A2 PU  CAPtIA  7.0               4.0       3 A               6.4         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL  S0.R FORCE (THOU&MbOS)       8345.0      9175.0D    9779.0              
FISLE (PERCENT)                     35.0        36.5       36.3             32.3       21.5          27.2
ACICULULE (ESCE'T)                  63.7        49.6       42.0             23.8        25.9         23.t
LNOUSVZ  (PECLIM)                   23.5        29.2       34.0             33.1        30.6
PARTICI?ATION RAT. (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  S.          '5.0      43.9              37.6       33.0         40.4
MALZ                                  60.3         38.3       59.4             57.0       51.3         55.7
FrMA                                  31.0         32.3      32.7             2t.0        16.3         24.7
ZCiONOKC DEPL'DENCT SAM                  0.           0.1        0.7              1.0         1.3          1.0
INCOME 015-aTRlON
MWPZCEV7 OF PRIVATE mNCC*
ZECELVED BY
9G1ST 5 PERCENt OF EOUSEROLDS   16.4/b           15.11t
hIOXESV 20 PRCENT OP EIOUSEFOLDS  41.5/h        41.4/i    40. O/            47.9        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERC2ENT OF LNOUSEbOL3S    6.97i        6.671     6.5              5.0         3.4
LOWEST iO PERCENT O  dOUScdOLDS   19.0/b        1B.4ii      8.4/           13.4        11.0
POVERTV TA?.CE CROOPS
ES-7 tATE7  A3Lmc    POV?EZr   L1600
LEVZL (USS PER CAPITA)
RBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..
ESTINATED RELATIVE POVERT  U=l
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
0L5A1                                 ..           ..        ..               ..       550.0           .
Rum                                   ..           ..     U20.0           4U6.1        603.4.
ESTIMATED ?0P0.ATTON KSELC  A.SOLUTE
POVERV? ZXCO.E LSVEL ( PRCENT)
UsRIA)                                ..           ..        ..                .           ..
9MAL                                  ..           ..         ..
Not avail1bl1
iot applicable.
NOTE
/a    The adjuseed group a.errpes for each Idn.atur art pop.lation-weighted 3eoeetoLr: means, excluding the extram.
values of the Iultactor and the nos, Porlated count.7 in each group.  Coverage of countries among tht
Indlcacors d.petds on avallabilIt, of c4ata &0 ts co:t umilorz.
7b    Unless ochervis.  noted, asca fot !960 refer to any year between 195; and 1961; fer 1970, between 1969
and 1971, *ad for  eot ket: t, ::.  betwert 1974 &ad J977.
/c    Europe;   Id  uppo " ddle Inneo  (SU116-2500 per capits, 1976);  /1  Nigh  ncce (over 52500 por capita,
1976):   /'  .962;   /g  tc"ivdtntg "grat woro.rs wortKig abroad;   lb  1963;   /L 1968;  /1  1972.
Post actent Estimate of CP p4r oaplsa i. for 1978.
AugwS   1979



mrti?  A _01 L'                                                              T~~~~ae  2   f 6
-P., r  rOt. 020  _000  0010 ira       fri   st-00 7m   >   j&sadn  n  anoi  otb .nt    or r7 I         0      2-C  tajL.d  in, tot --,000<40     0   Of 000  vbe  thOo-,
~1   Oo 000.   le.r.tOo    of  Of17o   t  tooO -2.x  mC0bott0  010 . l00rzOneS O&!y 207!-.--  4eo-.ois On                   cti'th   0           . 130r-,netla
>:4200  r-    llp± r   ao  ir-dlron   -  oy1000aito   Swtoatri  oane.ozot    tto  -ntr-so    o0.2.L-  of t1nc  trLotf  o  the  -0t onpmOnto
12>00000  -bsOto I---   iooltto   ol  oot   ': <ant  e-err  9707  0  fpo.tcoa  Icvso o-onran e'.-o nithoot  folaoo4  thO  -ct-e   'tro                                     n
to. ?-O-0l'Ott00.r noo of coe .oa>iOOO ho000000,toO.o trracon   n3     ~A-TonfVo:%jll12OLtO.O_0   If~Lo 1w,       W   ooooo  Thon           -itt-  L,  .-!on
0oo.aotpfrn-h,psaor,arat   d  i                              Sardg s  laor to               1l ito adflaolo  tot dispoaefo,  ino'to   lto  tf-o'   o   of h-tan          -t
-      bicaptoa nntlataO  at ,rOOr-it see-tnt prison,           -.tlsO:-   bti                  ooaOzir00t   .tor or?ttbIeoyit
~~O'0      ~~9~~itoroofoes, pracoltol ~~~~~~Ognea  too  -o.stot hors....
CAt-dn2m.  stawia        dtOl                             000bto   n )tnoOta,tn  - oOt. 010%                  0000         tyo .ot     ~totol,i-an
tle-'roa   nieatrll -ray) in bflape    of anal asltoost            1                         toln                   y0-so  opot  arns  o   ohs,oaotite
co1012Lo M0 fP?r)l N7222flblto-o,oreto-  p000242                                                                         -ooepnl  ronodo l`or r"         0   tlrn   o
btrolbkonir77r02SoO -9!~t                                                      4 ---- rA-            '
po   elt   tnseLb bsyl scot te M  alf  Iotsooc No:oobl ama f tenooit  fo-  talitos e,                                                               -b-naeo-
oOllt obator  parfosana. taco -rtartoat exI 00    .otofs too " of-ooo                  aayootaolo-u. 19tcliln  n   nable ho-eoten    0-t o  0010,  oro t.or
-to Jilotbing  oife ano-twey ot bra-ltty booot.-os farl peoclselayant                         -1,otolottA Ton-uetdo.       ho? ro  -r 000:   -roto t'     l - o--o
.,,rtr  -oaolo   fooorooo   tnf- tO                       aacltn   oo                    t-'0ltOa1ta lOh  t-ott oot                      000   :0       .oe  nn  onooroog
3o-ulsh ts I anityIrrovo Itself  --otei.ottTnMon  -salt-   ooooor<o    -:                                                                                          _--L.oo
to  o. on n,traooloor-tl-l.on - 2ot0o00   anz   _ about for deOtsla'aif j.MlaMt           _malyof1   oOhyan ao  oorrtnoboa000o   "  ooO
Ero.sM4     T-                                      aeanlatao.an-W                                                                 '0  ._
d.,yarn), naorolUd        O  oe nata  P   ooaeT- e  peroeeosges o        of~eee         taOd otl2  IsnacIl,o   te    oogoo be00  tooaoxoipedoty-
Pooa.to   roth tte   roent - total -,,nn.  fhort ngrat         ftas.a   id-A         frj-tt              o 52 17 coinrm   aoS.:   oc'     os   ttoh    ooIO
por     t-b%bsIoafr~ 1200,od. 1- s, aint 190-fl. joearessaoodeyloe.   ivdd afosrrooitares  o  O   too
Pount hiotr   to00000 -a- Y.            A 9O  r - osos arenbeat.8 of mbd,ar                settreag                             -rloo-sb-a,djtl                             t
pooato tfor  90-S x   d195-!  ot197    0-ata.                                        tealt llta5pof mejpo9pt)  aIterte   rooial-a  eastaio o
Crt   r-hht  'Rat toooeard  - .. Soa  lbs-trta        Mlaot* d of toalAi-             aTe-eEjifltlTuatooalnoie   .  oz  sa~de000.
yrppNulstooo91(0-192, nd 297t oto
r4t.ICEssefioros-obooaoatdl -   oat! drcyatog  perent) -boaaet.nd.at.sbld-teer- -C   -ii.
G-al R-24 otn-  Ot.a-Oeage  nabe   f Osdaite                sa oill bea                    .satlog 'otea  thss eight p-s,Osn  tolOaroi'lcco,baro  nor  olltoy
rardO95ae-prTtlbat   bbrlad Of ale  apse.-iere   pneent sgo-                            otii
epsolftofc llt   otor ` aotoy ros-ye-s  a-cgee saiong Is 19bO,                                      "I4                          tim  - A11. oy-psno   eslesto   o
1973, sort 19lt.                                                           -               bot tsata an geasRo  ril..  to   io.o            f Vo'0;lal tr;oeronoict-
rash0 Plsesipa-Acootorrc. to-on!Z. (o,esaoo    A.-total enane  of                    Meseteer  is conolesd i. 05-h bosoao-0  0o  oot   Ot00
an,epRon of bitr)on-oetn-oJ   eeo         e  ui-pl-a o  national finale-                   ."feato tAs tar Ir..eot  ar-   -oY tot On cooparol  sience- nut o..r
ybsscrl4 orosos.                                                               -            balIsb   liensicng.
Osaitor Plsaeioq - morn 8soocot of otrolpa nae) - Prsoe'&e-t aofse-ile         VI Reociv-re LPrO'  Ocodea         lpo        f  7rroor   foc     rtott0le,rL
ta.odPLtootenod- pool.lt _L--d Vt t-.e--norg ololtrlos
'lnL1I )-istes' of    'I,neleeothonsa  .dfoIssproos   olono
t   00 -U  O or,,!8 tl- o Laoe  M.Oo         ,,pr  alt                                  ene   prle.oa ftoa renorolono 97erl N       nis.  it 1 fcoodre   o  eUly
carnl ptoket.  eall  oad   oenlale. ?rb..ln  ecitte  tst       ~     is sps ts at isnaro  toot  otas  -aces.            S-th,-ld    i-It
leg-oeffs 001 00  ateenoiied. AIg?eg711t0 pt-tttb  of pers..psita                 aslta-          1t.t
Ibte00otora  aoer;  .pr-eddoAoet price -ae2mset n
feed otad L.oL  o  color boa   oeonte of veo-olersn  ri-  nte Sooe                    15-E2t Ft -
ero!.tO, teA  toagee  s ahan .to  anepiles. atodac sef  feed, aeon.               I  oaitanI          M roostrien  ate sot oorAattblL.
~ooOIIo  oor I  fodpnen.~    e     ast lissee-  Is Aatt-batla P--poie.            t  iAoro)-totem   Inlin  foen s  pooeoag   o  0-n!   oo   for
ant-ros  notV totiStl e-antoer og nror ,tns.  tepareoe,  0                nbo,            - -atoeI.a flOOttsC o  eoa                           -"00  foee 
ato toO oeo lOnnrb'Lat -at 0pnsls  a,t iotALi   ajiitio   15ft percet  fo             lrabAa0nLi:est)  -  torfnensing,0000-                             eeoatrr to
0055 tiZ2-            .f- l-roooseoald Isoel.is  e0%.A.Wie                                 tot!o-'6aobf  can   na1t en1a anfr-sg   of p-ntOg. labora :oroe.        C.
-on- cables        1. aools ?fArot  n   ...it no  des) - trotola o= te  or r             NttIe-I-   Ot   L000000   e- hor          n bion.  t   rol.       ntnlsloo
coIttoyo  atyl  of  oo;eth        y -ot  taoly of food is aisdy  asuu                                  -~ooo7oinamnett.a a  total  tal. 00       oai..   o-e
oIeOsoo allootaoo of 't tos f   total.t  .c-et   e 11   1AspL ea 1 0 arroat ofb  rIdo. 1-7. na   1Latsr %Thos  us ILil   ae016eLcrse    tato
:.pot. and  -pesite eentr_  of notan  11      p -en    ennai  Lo enlse.1pessa            ndt-oes so'oat.     o are bel oe-oIolot,std. -loo   oehos   A:oai
%%set ots.dsao  are Loser tots tOots -f 75 gass  of teal preiei   ad                     are tes  aalo.  ensos
24Si o     of aelsol poosola sa 55 a-eos  fre iab  ne-lt, pe-pente by ptA             152tmannRs&to     Oai-f   ypel                            d itr 13 and 05 ao  ne
Istoe Third Oa-ld Food   .. Yoeo.                                                      -bPn1rnoe o egta  of 00-ol Year
2.5100  soen I-n    0rotlttp Otto  ee   A0.5) .-Malad eflt  pe- Uetassnt         frlp Lf sas  noeCo0                        ... ont  toO 02d) - Rh-ot-d by tinIes
nyo    itnledts-d-rlnd fros life  nobles.                                         at bStsbIe.IS
LIofroia    t poit"  (yse)-  be-erae mma,er et  res of lifet.rkrAnLo    noh   onscol'P-toot)-ot0   t   on 
toratLot    02000  1100  1.3  so 1977. date.P. ....~,a I                                                       eose LeiI -a   trorloiblw   to      ora
)ofso   W10 roltY cn    e   t  aoi      et letoa ef icWsms raste  rose                       -trOtiocalljr adequte   Atpa  enietoinstrdeoroentn00
te ;  ao!-     -o,-   rt..2tI-oa    re   set fklae   -                          Ottl-ed  olatto- tojeery Ince-  re-O  0:3 -o   rtotria             t- o   ansod eo-al
saeonrvply 0.itnldee flossd tatsesnes nr  tateeased beet                           PerersaI Ic il orea  tenoor Urban lo1 ,o  -1-ener  fr-o  the  .oc.I Ito-
a0teotsratodA ostee- co- %a thats fro  pootetea asesoole, sytes,oto n.tdaoet for hlth- cot ef llIel is te  .ac  ..e.e.
sad oslsyee.) an  erOesotgee nf tOeo respective  neo                 ootO                 eine  Prrsnistie-I-Ino   boo,loto   ooe   ne    eo   rr'-00-oton
a at  ores a pobtie toantata Or Stw4ae.lt  masted seM         r    b                      ot M"   Peton a MFropebtloo a'a   tr   oeloo  o                 tola    s
2Cr Mtere ton ra%          'Y-a   teIs  Wenideeed .s beiso  aithIs oasteable
doso~Pru-.ot..os part of Lb. Oaf is feetis%Wt i   family-s ester seest                                                        tao,r'sl  Anabapti  soM4     jolaoIoteo
SAgast 19790



AIIVU S
-27-                                                feg. 4 of 6
ECONOMIC DtVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                          ESTIMATI           PROJECTtD
.1970       1975         1976       19-7. /1        1978         1979        1985
NATIONAt ACCOUNTS /2
(USS 311. at 1975
Prices) *
Gross Domxstic
Product (GDP)  22,519.9    30,931.9    32,138.2       34,612.8     36,597.2     38,557.6      48,787.7
Gains from Tomes
cf Trade          148.9          0          69.1           0          332.6          0             0
Gross Dometic
Income         22,668.8    30,931.9    32,207.3       34,612.8     37.229.8     38.357.6    U4.557.4
ilorts           6,519.8      8P832.0     8,493.2       9,636.8     10,038.5     10,344.8      12,857.0
Exporta-Voluz -5,022.7    -6,426.0   -7,026.9         -6,712.8    -6,761.7    -6.896.6   -10.952.4
Exports-Terms
of Trade
Adjusted       -5,171.6    -6,426.0    -7,095.1       -6,712.8     -7,094.3     -6,696.6    -10,952.4
Resource Gap     1,348.2      2,406.0     1,398.1       2,924.0      2,944.2      3,448.2       1,904.6
Consumption     16,339.6    23.123.5    22,778.2       25,367.6     26,820.2     27,850.8      34,266.7
Investmet        7,677.4    10,214.4    10,827.2       12,169.2     13,353.8     14,155.0    16,405.6
NationAl
Savina          6,993.2      9,211.4    10,992.2      10,817.0     12,520.3     12,516.5      15,713.7
Gross Domestic
Savings         6,329.2      7,808.4     9,429.1       9,245.2     10,409.6    10,706.8       14,501.0
GDP at Currnt
USS             13,766.4    30,931.9    42,336.6      50,154.9      58,480.6      8,422.3    123,803.8
SECTOR OfTVtCT
(snare of MDP
at 1975 prices)
Agriculture            .112        .152        .160          .156         .139          .134         .130
Industry              .410         .480        .472          .478         .487          .494         .S08
Services               .4A         .368        .367          .366         .374          .372         .362
PRICES
(1975 -100)
Elports Price
Index              52          :00         104           U7           128          145           210
Imports Price
Index              50          100         103           117          122          145           210
Taems of Trade
index             104          100         101           100          104          100           100
CDP Deflator        61          100         132           145          158          177           254
Annual Average
Exchange Rate      12.5D        17.39       18.19        1.30         18.64         -             -
SELECTED INDICATORS            1976-78     1978-8S
Import Elasticity                .71         .88
Average National
Savings Rate                    .33         .32
Marginal National
Savings Rate                     30          27
Imports/GDP                      .27         .26
Investment/GDP /3                .35         .34
Resource Gap/GDT                 .07         .06
/1 Prelininary.
/2 Components may not add up because of rounding.
/3  Including all stati.itical discrepancies.  In 1976, 1977, and 1978 large statistical discrepancies
exist as a result of' vhich components of final demand exceed total resources. Since, in the
above table  conswq'tion has been reduced by this discrepancy and investment has not been changed
although it too is Likely to account for part of the discrepancy, the share of investment is lLUly
to be an overestimmce.
EIIDC
July 25, 1979



ANNEX 1
-28                                                   Page 5 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(USS Million)
Actual                                Projected
1974         1975        1976      1977       1978_1/       1979         1985
Exports (f.o.b.)                      3,805        4,072       4,878      5,254      5,671        6,900       15,000
Imports (c.i.f.)                      7,520        7,697       7,367     9,634       9,988      12,500       21,0CO
Trade Balance                     -3,715       -3,625      -2,489    -4,380       -4,317      -5,600       -6,000
Non-Factor Services Receipts          1,891        2,354       2,430      2,600       2,984       3,100        8,0C0
Non-Factor Services Payments            795        1,135       1,381      1,641       2,259       2,500       6,003
Non-Factor Services
Net Balance                      1,096        1,219       1,049        959          725         600       2,000
Factor Services Receipts              1,714        1,746      1,974      2,220        3,030       3,200        4,500
Factor Services Payments          -    285           343         364        381         455         500        1,800
Factor Services Net Balance        1,429        1,403       1,610      1,839       2,575       2,700        2,700
Current Account Balance             -1,190       -1,003          165    -1,582      -1,017       -2,300       -1,300
Capital Account-Medium
and Long-Term (net)                    612        1,156      1,193      1,615       1,300        1,700       2.000
Disbursements                      1,426        2,171       2,096      2,665       2,700        3,406       7,0O0
Amortization                         -814      -1,015         -903    -1,050      -1,400-     -1,700'      -5,000
Exports Credit Extended Net            -130          -80        -100       -213        -150        -200         -30D
Disbursements                       -215            -           -'               -                 -
Amortization                           85           -           -          -           -           -
Total Medium and Long-Term
(net)2/                               482        1,076       1,093      1,402       1,150       1,500         1,700
Short Term (net)31!                     270          127         -47        -19         182          -            -
Allocation of SDR's                      -            -           -          -           -           -
Change in Reserves(-=Increase)          438         -200     -1,211       -199         -315         800         -400
Gold, Foreign Exchange, SDtR          243          -63     -1,065          38       -250           -            -
Bilateral Balances                    195         -137        -146        161         -65          -
1/    Preliminary
2/    External borrowing reported in the balance of payments is  not consistent with external debt data.
3t    Including capital transactions, n.e.i and errors and omissions.
EMENA CPIC
November 2, 1979



-  29
Mfht.\ I
DEBT MID CRZDIIWORNTlhYIS
ACTUIAL
1973        1974        1975          ii7a         1977
.4pdiu.-  L&oni-Term Debt (Disbursed only) - uS S slilo.
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD) (eytd of period)         4287.0      4925.9        5820.0      1145.1      8946.1
Including Undisbursed       (end of period)           5548.7      7709.7       1807.9       9696.4    12157.8
Public Debt Services        (during period)           -306.5      -394.2       -447.0       -305.2      -379.0
Interest                                            -98.4      -105.3        -127.9       -143.0      -137.3
Other Hedium- and Long-Ter Debait Servjce(durirg pd.)  -746.4     -822.7       -989.7      -1134.8    -1233.3
Total Debt Service           (iuring period)         -1052.9    -1214.9       -1436.7      -1440.0    -1612.3
Debt Burden
Debt Service Usti*                        -             23.9        21.4         22.4         19.7        20.2
Debt Service Ratiol                                     18.4        16.9         17.3         15.7        15.9
Ter
Interest on Total DOD/Ttal D                             4.           .0          4.9          4.2         4.0
Total Debt Service/Total WD                             24.6        24.7         24.7         20.2 1Z.0
Dependency Ratio* for keAio.- L Le_a-Tom Debt
Cross Disburs*uents/1iorts                              37.0        20.6         27.3         32.8        30.7
NMt Transf eru/1orte                                    13.7         4.5          8.7         13.3        14.0
Met Transfera/Oores Diuburumeta                         36.9        21.8         31.7         40.5        45.6
xipocure
World bank Disburse_ats*C.ross Total Disburats           3.0         5.8          7.3          4.9         4.5
World bank & IDA Dibaraermts/Gross Total Disbur_eets  3.0            5.8          7.3          4.9         4.5
World bank DOD/Total DDD                                 1.2         5.6          9.6          9.2         5.5
World amk A IDA MOD/Total DOD                            8.2         J.6          9.6          9.2         8.5
World Bank Debt Service/Total Debt Service               3.6         3.6          3.9          4.7         5.3
World lank & IDA Debt Service/'Total Debt Service        3.6         3.6          3.9          4.7-       -I.3
11  Including vorkers' rouittince.
Jusly 25. 1979



-30 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30, 1979)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans fully disbursed                                  597.6
777     1971   SFRY                          Multipurpose Water  45.0        9.1
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism              20.0      0.3
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      0.2
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      1.3
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline         59.4    20.3
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       0.3
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          0.5
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    17.7
1060    1974   Port of Bar                   Harbor Expansion    44.0    10.0
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik             Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      3.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka            Agricultural
Credit              50.0    10.8
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                  Roads                 40.0      3.4
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline             48.4      3.5
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    11.3
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &       Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    32.6
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    20.4
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    15.9
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water   54.0    51.6
"Metohija"
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,         Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      20.5



- 31 -                    ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1371     1977   StoparLska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      21.6
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      11.5
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission        80.0      59.9
1477     1977   Vojvocljanska Banka          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      69.4
1534     1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                  Railways             100.0      73.9
1535     1978   Repub:Lic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia        Roads                 80.0      49.8
1561     1978   Elektrcoprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine       Hydro Power           73.0      64.1
1611     1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      35.8
1612     1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.4
1613     1978   Stopaaska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      17.2
1614     1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                   Credit               20.0      12.7
1616     1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0      79.1
1621     1978   Privredna Banka,            Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                  Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      55.0
1678     1979   Road Organizations of
Koscvo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and the Socialist
Republic of Macedonia    Roads                 148.0    148.0
1756 /a  1979   Zagre.backa Banka            Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0      51.0
1759 /a  1979   Republic of Montenegro    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation -
Highways            21.0      21.0
Total (less cancellation)                    2,337.5   1,019.7
of which has ben repaid                       254.7-
Total now outstanding                        2,082.8
Amount sold                      8.5
of which:  Amount paid          7.7             0.8
Total now held by Bank                       2,082.0
Tota&L undisbursed                                      1_,019.7
/a   Not yet effective.



- 32 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30, 1979)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                     Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -      2.0       2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry           7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        13.7    3.3      17.0
1972   Sava Semperit                         Tires            11.3    3.8      15.1
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper  13.3       -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel   10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant    10.0       -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing       4.0    2.5       6.5
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6    2.6      18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitments                               147.4   24.8    172.2
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             81.0    2.6      83.6
Total commitments held by IFC                          66.4   22.2      88.6
Total Undisbursed                                      11.2    5.2      16.4



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurp ose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. The main dam
is completed and the reservoir is being filled. A small part of the irriga-
tion network'has been completed with the remainder expected to be completed
by 1980 and 1981. Project costs have been above appraisal estimates, but the
overrun financing is being provided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal
sources. Delays have been encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjust-
ment. Consultants have been engaged to help find solutions, and the Kosovo
Government has enacted appropriate legislation. After a delay of about five
years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which will assist
in the provision of agricultural extension services to the individual sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated ($49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,000 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about $1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks, but another change in sponsorship is required
and is currently being discussed with the participating parties.  The 1978
season was good. A further extension of the Closing Date to December 31, 1979
has been necessary to permit disbursement of the small balance of the loan
(approximately $300,000) earmarked for the final payment against a computer
installation scheduled for mid 1979.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with-the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission:  US.75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date:  December 29, 1972; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
The Project construction has progressed slowly, but has virtually
been completed, about two years late. Its cost has increased to about $428
million (up 90 percent) chqefly due to escalation in prices.  The resulting
cost overrun is being financed from funds received from the Federal Republic
of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own internal sources. Appoint-
ment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976, but their recom-
mendations have now been made and are being discussed with JUGEL and the
Borrowers and implementation of many of the recommendations is underway.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements throuigh Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 42 are completed, one is under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory. The Closing Date of the loan, originally
December 31, 1978, has been postponed to October 31, 1979, to permit comple-
tion on disbursements to suppliers of equipment.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for wghich additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by mid to late 1980.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements accelerated after a slow start. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, was postponed twice to December 31, 1979 to
allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements to
equipment suppliers.



35
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government-efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. Tariff increases approved in 1977 and 1978 and institutional develop-
ments, including improved investment planning and management, the formation of
COIs and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
have resolved the major problems. Rate of disbursement, initially behind
schedule, is now improving. Undisbursed balance of $20.8 million is fully
committed. Closing date has been postponed from June 30, 1979 to December 31,
1980 to allow full utilization of project funds and completion of disburse-
ments on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items was expected by end 1979. The port authority has
been experiencing serious cash flow problems arising from delays in complet-
ing the project and in traffic build-up. Most recently, the earthquake in
Yugoslavia resulted in severe damage to port installations particularly in the
older parts of the port causing further delays and will require a reassessment
of the financial situation.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel CompLex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component has now been
completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage com-
ponent.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
institution building. Ninety-seven percent of the loan has been committed.
Disbursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational
and learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the year and, as of June 30, 1979, 75 percent of the loan
proceeds were disbursed.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia and Montenegro is on schedule. All road works should
be completed by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a one year slippage in the completion will occur. The
revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there will be a cost
overrun of about 45 percent because of required changes from original project
components and increases in local costs. The Borrower has taken steps to
obtain supplementary financing from various sources both foreign and local.
The economic viability of the project remains sound. Upon review of the award
of a site preparation contract in one case, and the procurement procedures
regarding a telemetry supervision control system in another case, the Bank
concluded that the procurement procedures were not in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the relevant portion ($470,000 and
$112,000, respectively) that would have otherwise been eligible for disbur-
sement were cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished, has been reviewed by the
Bank and discussed with the relevant Yugoslav authorities. The flood control
and water quality studies are underway after initial delays in selecting con-
sultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has begun. Construction is completed
on the principal parts of the Cacak component, the remainder is well advanced.
Construction is also underway in Titovo Uzice. Designs of sewage treatment
plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice are underway. The pilot irrigation components
which were delayed pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrange-
ments, are expected to get underway shortly. The creation of the Morava
Region Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than antic-
ipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties concerned
on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened in the
water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Morava Region Water
Community of Interest.



- 37 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Tendering for the
sewage treatment plant: is completed and award is expected shortly.
Loan 1264 Saraievo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effect:ive Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Gas is scheduled to be available in Sarajevo by end 1979, one year
later than originally planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the
supply of gas were the the major cause of delay. All contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high pressure loop-line, as well
as for gas transmission line, have been awarded and construction is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed except
for a small part of the Kosovan bank's portion for which a project has been
submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal
estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohila Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31.
1982.
Local consultants, with the assistance of foreign consultants, have
been retained as project consultants and are proceeding with final designs on
the project components and preparation of bidding documents. Two local con-
struction contracts have been awarded as well as the major contract for the
construction of the dam. Overall project progress is about one year behind
schedule.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 1C, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. ICB procurement for the winery
and the cold stores is completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date:  July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans i-or all agro-industrial sub-projects have been approved by
the Borrower. Twenty two sub-projects in the individual sector have been



- 38-                    ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
approved committing 60 perce*nt of loan proceeds. Slower than expected imple-
mentation (contract award for construction agro-industries facilities) due
primarily to lack of employment of agro-industries specialist by Borrower.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has been
completed by the consultant awarded. The studies on Road-User Charges and
Rail Costs are substantially complete. Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 84 percent of the loan amount have been
let and physical executiorn has started with the most critical sub-stations and
lines. The least cost development study and tariff study have been submitted
to the Bank and are being translated.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29. 1977;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project,
although behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracting has progressed as expected and most of the loan has
already been committed.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Contractor prequalification for all project road sections has been
approved, and the construction contracts have been awarded for road sections
in Croatia and Serbia. Slovenia has delayed construction due to protest by
residents in the area of the Celovska Interchange that some measures must be
taken to abate noise pollution. Resident agreement to abatement solutions is
expected shortly.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 80 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free.



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan became effective November 16, 1978.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each Loans
of July 26, 1978: Effective Dates: November 16, 1978; Closing
Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans became effective November 16, 1978.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effecitive Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30Q 1982-.
Major contracts for construction of the dam, alimentation canal and
main canal have been awarded. Consultants have been awarded contracts for
preparation of three irrigation studies.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The loan became effective March 28, 1979.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
All five participating Republics/Provinces have completed prequalif-
ication of contractors and have established monitoring and evaluation units.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date:                    ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is January 31, 1980.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation Project - Highways: US$21
million Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date:
; Closing Date:  Becember 31, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is December 20, 1979.



- 40 -                    ANNEX III
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
PORT OF BAR
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Port of Bar Working
Organization (PBWO) to prepare project:  From April 15 to July 25, 1979
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                  PBWO with the assistance of
Yugoslav consultants
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                     July 31, 1979
(d)  Bank appraisal mission:                         August 1979
(e)  Negotiations substantially completed:           October 1979
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:                     February 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The Bank will maintain close cooperation with the Borrower to ensure
that procurement procedures cause no delays in the urgent work of repairing,
restoring and rehabilitating the port.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower will be required: (i) to increase its technical and support
staff, and to obtain the assistance of consultants as and when required,
to ensure proper programming of the works and adequate supervision (para.
68 and draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02); and (ii) to review results of
studies for the future development of the port with the Bank and in the
context of an ongoing national port sector planning study, before under-
taking other major investments (para. 57 and draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.07).
(b) As conditions of loan effectiveness: (i) the Republic of Montenegro
will have adopted decisions or given guarantees to cover the financing of
the rehabilitation program, including possible cost overruns (para. 68
and draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (a)); and (ii) agreements between
the Borrower and Investment Bank of Titograd (IBT) under which IBT is to
act as fiscal agent for the project are in full force and effect (para 68
and draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01(b)).



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - PORT OF BAR
Repair and Rehabilitation
Estimated Cost in
Dinars (million)
1.   Restoration of berths
Berths and Cargo-Handling Areas (Pier I)  Din. 39.2 m.
Berths and Cargo-Handling Areas (Other
than Piers I & II)                        Din. 43.0 m.
Passenger Berth                             Din. 21.0 m.
Breakwater Berth                            Din.  9.0 m.
South Berth of Pier II                     Din. 30.0 m.          142.2
2.   Restoration of Breakwaters
The surveys of the breakwater indicate extensive dis-
placements and settlement of sections of both the main
and secondary breakwaters. It is estimated that the
repair of the main breakwater will require 172,000
cu.m. of new stone and the secondary breakwater some
27,000 cu.m. Most of the stone required will be avail-
able from the triLmming of the Volujica Hill. The proj-
ect entails the selection of stone, its transport and
placing by floatLng crane in order to provide break-
waters that, whiLe not conforming to the original
profiles, will provide the necessary calm water condi-
tions required in the port area. Certain sections of
the concrete top of the breakwaters will have to be
replaced   .................                       ....170.0
3.   Volujica Hill
The earthquakes caused extensive slippage of rock
masses on the northern slopes of the Volujica Hill.
The landslides made the roads and rail sidings behind
the bulk berths inoperable. The working areas have to
be further cleared and the hill trimmed back to a safe
profile according to recommendations to be made by
geologists and quarrying experts retained for this
work. It is estimated that a total of 450,000 cu.m of
rock will have to be removed - most of which will be
useful for the breakwater repair items   .                       145.0



- 42 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 2
4.   Dredging
The earthquakes caused upheavals in the underwater
area of the port. These reduced the working depth
by some 0.5 m. and, in order to achieve the original
published depth, some 450,000 cu. m. of material
will have to be removed       ....................                30.0
5.   Repair of Transit Sheds
All buildings were damaged to a lesser or greater
degree. Some, in fact, were totally demolished. In
general, storage capacity in the Bar area is insuffi-
cient as no private enterprise companies exists which
might be willing to erect and operate warehouses.
Consequently, there is a continued demand for the
port to provide longer term storage that would be
expected in normal port operations .163.0
6.   Repair of Other Buildings
The Bank-financed project for the construction of
grain silos at the bulk-handling berths has only
reached ground level. The contract was delayed
because the contractor was not allowed to proceed
with concrete work during periods of earth tremors
and extra costs have consequently been incurred.
The edible oil tanks were only slightly damaged.
The main administrative building of PBWO was severely
damaged and requires major rehabilitation. Other
buildings such as stores and workshops are included
in this item ...63.0
7.   Repair of Services and Working Areas
Water supply                                 Din.  32.5 m.
Drainage and sewerage system                 Din.  38.0 m.
Road connections; Making up and resurfac-
ing working areas                          Din. 130.8 m.
Railway System (near Pier II)                Din.  30.0 m.
Electrical Power and Lighting System         Din.  80.0 m.       311.3
8.   Repair of Equipment
All damaged equipment will be repaired and restored to
original working capabilities wherever practical. This
work will include the remedial measures required by the
Bank-financed container crane and bulk-handling equip-
ment. Equipment that is old and beyond its economic



- 43 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 3
life (e.g. the Hungarian quay cranes) will be can-
nibalized in order to obtain a few more years of
service from the resulting units. The suppliers of
the original equipment will be approached to under-
4             take this work wherever possible.  Various Yugoslav
technical organizations are involved with determining
the best remedial measures for the various items of
equipment. Spare parts have already been utilized in
getting the equipment into a condition of partial
operation and replacement spare parts for the equip-
ment are included .......... ..*.. *.............*..................  103.0
9.   Accommodation for Workers
1,440 people work in the port of whome 220 are
temporary workers. Fifty percent of the port
workers' houses require repair and 320 workers
presently have no permanent accommodation. As the
port's traffic grows, more workers will be hired but
they will not be offered port accommodation. Each
worker is given 65 sq. m. of space and 300 such
apartments are urgently required ................ ......        235.0
10.  Technical Assistance
In order to provide the technical assistance required
in the design of remedial measures for the civil works
of the port and dLn the testing and analysis of damaged
mechanical equipment, the port will engage consultants
to assist its owII technical experts      ... .....              10.0
1. Volujica Area - Bulk Cargo Berth
The original 312 m. berth was built from 1970-74 and
about a 100 m extension was financed by the Bank in 1974.
The contract for the latter was awarded, after inter-
national competiltive bidding to Gradis and Hydro-
electra, who are still under contract and on the job.
The current proposal is to expand the bulk-handling
berths by about 100 m. This will provide a bulk-
handling facility for grain, iron ore and other
minerals ..........      ....................................   105.0
12.  Pier No. I
For the next few years at least, Pier No. I will be
the main provider of general-cargo handling capacity.
This was originally provided by the berths in the
Pier II area. The damaged berths will be repaired



- 44 -                   ANNEX IV
Page 4
and an additional 140 m. of new quay wal plus a 20 m.
return wall will be constructed. The exact alignment
of the new quay has yet to be determined. Soil
cmnalysis is about to be started .......................        143.0
13. New Transit Sheds
Two reinforced concrete transit sheds providing 16,800
sq. m of covered area will be provided. These will be
standard PBE type sheds ...............................         100.3
14. Completion of Bulk-Handling Equipment
Because of lack of funds, the bulk-loading berths
were only provided with vertical lift-on and lift-off
equipment. The present operation is severely handi-
capped for lack of conveyor belts and hopper capable of
providing horizontal movement of the bulk commodities
being handled. Hoppers, conveyor belts, reclaimers,
etc. are essential to an efficient operation and are
urgently required. The estimated cost includes 12-1/2
percent for spare parts ................................         90.0
15.  Mechanical Equipment (excluding bulk handling)
Cranes (fixed)
13 portal cranes were seriously damaged. Ten were
very old and manufactured in Hungary, two were of
Yugoslav manufacture and one financed under the IBRD
loan. The cranes have been surveyed and a decision
made to cannibalize the old Hungarian cranes because
of the difficulty of obtaining replacement parts and
in the meantime proceed with the repair of the other
three cranes. In order to make good the shortage, it
is intended to purchase three 5-10 ton cranes and two
15-ton cranes (complete with magnetic rings and grabs
for handling scrap iron). These five cranes comprise
this item              .... Din. 82.0 m.
Cranes (mobile)
Three 12-ton mobile cranes                  Din. 7.5 m.
One 40-45-ton crane                         Din. 7.0 m.



-45-
ANNEX IV
Page 5
In addition to handling heavy individual loads, the
45-ton heavy lift crane will be useful for container
handling when any of the port's container handling
equipment is under repair. It would also be avail-
able for future maintenance of the breakwaters. PBE
is willing to purchase second hand cranes if suitable
equipment can be found.
Fork Lift Trucks
Thirty 2-7-ton fork lift trucks ............ Din. 18.0 m.
Tow-Master
This equipment will be used for maneuvering
trailers in the port's roll-on/roll-off
facility        ............................ .... Din. 2.0 m.
Fire Fighting Equipment
The port's fire-fighting equipment is
old and not worth repairing and the
local fire-fightiLng services are not
dependable.
Two mobile ilire-fighting units
Six sea-water pumps and hoses ........  Din. 8.0 m.           124.5
The port has traLned 115 workers in fire-fighting
and first aid.
16. Tug Boats (2)
The port depends on an old, hired tug boat for the
maneuvering of all ships in the port. In order to
provide a better and safer service to vessels, two
tug boats (secondhand if available) are to be pur-
chased. Vessels with the following characteristics
are being sought:
Length:  Up to 30 m.    Bollard pull:  15-ton
Draft:   3 m.            Horsepower:    12-1600
Speed:   1-12 knots
One tug boat will be provided with foam and regular
fire-fighting equipment. The estimated cost is for
new vessels .............................................
64.0
1999.8



- 46
ANNEX V
YUGOSLAVIA
MONTENEGRO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT - PORT OF BAR
REPAIR AND REHABILITATION
SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATE
Dinars million                     US$ million 1/
Local     Foreign             Local    Foreign             Bank
Item                   Currency   Exchange   Total   Currency  Exchange  Total Particip.
1. Restoration of Berths        83.9        58.3    142.2      4.5        3.1      7.6    3.1
2. Restoration of Breakwaters 100.3         69.7     170.0     5.4        3.7      9.1    3.7
3. Restoration of Voluj ica
Hill                       85.5        59.5     145.0     4.5        3*2      7.7    3.2
4. Dredging                     17.7        12.3      30.0      1.0       0.6      1.6
5.  Repair of Transit Sheds     81.5        81.5     163.0      4.4       4.4      8.8
6. Repair of Other Buildings   33.3         29.7      63.0     1.8        1.6      3.4
7. Repair of Services and
Working Areas             189.9       121.4     3h.3    10.2         6.5     16.7    6.5
8. Repair of Equipment            -        103.0    103.0       -         5.5      5.5    5.5
9. Acco-nsodation for Workers  176.3        58.7     235.0     9.4        3.1     12.5
10. Technical Assistance        10.0          -       10.0     0.5         -       0.5
11. Volujica Wharf Extension   61.9         43.1    la5.o       3.3       2.3      5.6    2.3
12. Pier No. 1 Extension        84.4        58.6     143.0      4.5       3.1      7.6    3.1
13. New Transit Sheds (2)       50.4        50.4      D00.8     2.7       2.7      5.4    2.7
14. Bulk-Handling Equipment       -         90.0      90.0       -        4.8      4.8    4.8
15. Mechanical Equipment          -        124.5    124.5       -         6.7      6.7    6.7
16. Tug Boats (2)                 -         64.0      64.0       -        3.4      3.4    3.4
Sub.Total         975.1    1,024.7   1,999.8    52.2        54.7    106.9   45.0
Contingencies. Phvsical -  10-252 included in actual items.
Price
(12% per year local          219.3       115.3    334.6    11.7        -6.2    17.9      5.0
currency, 7,', per year
foreign exchange)
_                     =         -          =  =
-TOTAL PROJECT COST      1,194.4     1,140.0   2,334.4    63.9       6Q..9  124.8    50.0
1/ US$1 - Din. 18.70.



IBRD-14637
OCTOBER 1979
Y U G O S L A V I A
I d                                           Montenegro
( ~'\.eoj*oE-\- >EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOSA- VASEISMIC IMPACT OF APRIL 15, 1979 EARTHQUAKE
//s\  'Sso..                                     ____    -_       -      Paved roads
7-  '~~~~~~~~*.  "a' ~~~~~~~~Grovel roads
,Sua      __               04a            'A:   ala
-    ~ ~ ~ cSi~~~ud~nic&.                                     ulu
epdn .    ol      \                PLJEVUA                                             Autonomous province boundary
I' Scepanl5olj~~~~~~       tTriica.      ~    ~    ~ ~ ~     Republic boundaries
.. \ ) ... !> : t  \.  _          ._ International boundary
(                                               )                                                  r  t \ 6   MCS t Modified Mercalli Scale)
K'                               I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
Kosonica  j-
.        r[A    ,pErso                                s_s   OKourr r..
- Pluiine°  *    i  Zabliak           DjurdevicdTra;
.    '_             1               >                           >         W I     X                5ERB/A~~~~~~~~~ 5-   N
(    Pluiine0 
i '-- ___,' 1Pasina Vada                                            ...    t        t|SERBIA
r  %      P                                                                    IJELO POLJE
.. - ~~~",rs~tc BoB;jov:) Po(je    e
Savnik                                    oikovac            t
GPornie                                                      l /  ($Koio-in  IVANGRAD              _roje
'1                Kuside                                                           Kolajin~Poll
KuseSC                               ManostirMorocaJ               MateievoKua
-------------    ndriievicca
Viusi     Podbozur  \i
Nudo
-------- Grohovo                                                                                         Muin                     KOSOVO
nibovgrad
r 0 . ~~~~~~~~~~Cevo                                                        v9a   . sinle -
|:1~E\                                  Ce~nje                                 GOAD         /                 A  L  B-A         A I A"
Rod novkci   -:                  R -   ijetlFs~notieoZq        IUv5tv   ,                                  ..     ; . .
*A d U ; 5 tCAc              PeyrovoJ 8ar                         'iak ros/                                                I-
Austt   ,r     i         cv\;                                             ,         X       -.                             i_;       -     . .  
AUSTRIAo\./                           $N 
; . M e N 4 -;A<  ;  ,  ,  .  b  .  .  ..
'i1      MONT                                                                                                t A0E
G OSCAVAC                                 .                                                            I    tb. rO,IdSo4usev
Ad,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 vv EhJi,,uN'Tv1',I~'h
5-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,NoN 'TTR,Evp~ hvW2n(vN.
LMHA1                                            -I                       vOu o~I,gancv vavm;~, Nuv tc*n, -a        n 



I
I



IBRD 10916R
O,r.,b,, '574
0    II                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YUGOSLAVIA
0~~~~~~~~ ~~~PORT OF BAR PROJECT
-,          TIT~~~~EARWATTIT
I~~'         AAQIR ON FOR   P600 NAM RRRTr0 ~~~~~~~BLACK   Et,
VETTIC rEFERS                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project and F/urwe Ex ens,on
I                                                                         ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -   Inte-rnorioml BounddcIes
I                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-16--  Depth In Meters Del ow  W (15 T
ENTRANCE TO FORT AREA
0)    IOU    200    300    4CR     C
i                       -                                      OAR 4-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7PRKIN
BIRTl,                                            ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OFFICE f
'N                                                          I,'r               ANST HE
I    /  "  ~~~~~~~~~T0o   -                     '0~~~~~HED OWN., BY
I    /  K                               i/pd   /CEII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RE2P~1OTR AND
14:  P;IER I /'. 
TO-""A6                          N          'y                                                                                       'I 
0                             160~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E0W Lwo0T    N<                                          N                                                  A 
t  I                     -          6/           N>7              <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Nj/N  /     AU-IRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AlsIR , HLJN13    
/  N          OR                                                       K               -A  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  ROT/A A.
SCA115TI,  -                         IS  4RG           K\'<
SODA SANKES   -    5             K-,KRN                                      /,                                                                      R'
--    /7'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y <5LAI
6'  MSR-               / -             /6    <wIll                                                                                         '-">0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
A/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4
FR</I. 0/5  STOR  ~~~~~~~~~TA4'5O  /  -'   ~~~~~~~,  A                                     >,             SN'C~~~~~~C S  ARIA  ~~~~(
N-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  // -<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"-E



l
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 146r2f
6                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YUGOSLAVIA
PORT OF BAR
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION PROJECT
AERIEP RRR,                                          Severely Damaged, Temeporarily Abandoned
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S T . o be Restored
GREEN Previous Project
ENRNET OTAREA           BLACK Existing
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  --.AIN R,OAD-                                          International Boundaries
7  ANKER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TR                            rARIG-                   '- Depth in Meters belo. L.W.C.S.T.
K  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    IL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    100   2(0  3010  400  000
~~'  I   N,   -,,'.        /1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   '   / ~~~~MEIERE
IT    S KP'
1  2''  0,,  ".Av'O' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  (010/ ~ ~      ~       5.-0 
N  j                                                                                               H U N     A R
O'N'.  46'~~~~~~~'~~6  UR                                                                                                  ROMAWA'3'  R
A,  1                                   ',,,             K       '
4;,  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'K  R~~DrC)R       'RrCu,                5       / ~~~~~          IK'REE/
77~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



