tA) zq3- 1- )
Document of
The World Bank
FOR omCIL USE ONLY
Rqpwt No. P-3540-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAT1ION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMET
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED OAN
IN AN MOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$15 MILLION
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
HIGEWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
April 28, 1983
This dcane  bas a restricltd disbtion .d my be wed by recipits ony in the performance f
their otil dui. Its cotets say not odhrwise be dislosed viout Wofld Book uhia!in.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit    =  Jamaican Dollar (JS)
Official rate: US$  =  J$ 1.78
J$ = US$0.56
Approximate Selling Rate at the Official Parallel
Market (Since January 1983)
US$ = J$2.6
JS=  US$0.38
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
Weight and Measures
British/US Units                    Metric Equivalent
I foot (ft)                         - 0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                         = 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 sq mile (mi2)                     - 2.589 square kilometers (kr2)
1 pound (1 lb)                      = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (2,000 lbs)             = 0.907 metric ton (m ton)
1 long ton (2,240 lbs)              = 1.016 metric ton Cm ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DEMS      Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services
DM        Directorate of Maintenance
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
HFS       Hire Funding Scheme
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
ITA       Island Traffic Authority
JMM      3Jaaica Merchant Marine
JRC       Jamaica Railway Corporation
KSAC      Kingston and St. Andrews Corporation
MLG       Ministry of Local Government
MOC       Ministry of Construction (Works)
MPUT      Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
PAJ       Port Authority of Jamaica
PSIP      Public Sector Investment Program
RMP       Road Maintenance Program for FY 1983184-1987/88
RRIP      Rural Road Improvement Project



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
JAMAITCA
HIGHWAY MAlTffANCE PRoJEcr
LOAN AID PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Government of Jamaica
Beneficiary:                Ministry of Construction
Amount:                     US$15.0 million equivalent, including a capitalized
front-end fee.
Tems:                        17 years, repayable on a fixed avwrtization schedule,
including 4 years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Loan Description:           The project's uain objective is to support the
Ministry of Construction (OC)'s maintenance prograx,
which is intended to forestall further deterioration
of the 2,900 mile road network under MOC responsi-
bility. It consists of the periodic maintenance and
technical assistance planned for the first three years
of the HOC s 198314-1986/7 main road mantenance pro-
gram, as well as the first year of its vehicle and
equipment fleet renewal program. Specifically, it
provides for asphaltic concrete overlay of existing
pavement on about 160 miles of roads; asphaltic seal-
-     ing and resealing with double surface treatment of
some 360 miles of roads; and preparatory works, as
weIl as the procurement of utility vehicles, dump
trucks, and other equipment and about 245 ran-months
of technidal assist lce to strengthen HNC's planning,
maintenance and equipment             and training
capabilities.
Risks:                      The primary risk arises from the institutional weak-
ness of HDC. The technical assistance and training
component of the project is directed at minimizing
these risks.
This docuent bas a resictd distrbution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of
tbei of ria duis Its contents may oot otherwe be dised without World Bank authonzation.



- ii -
Project Cost:
Foreign           Local          Total
USS Million
Periodic Road Maintenance
Pavement Overlay                  5.49            7.28           12.77
Pavement Sealing and
Resealing                       3.97            4.65            8.62
Preparatory Works                 5.08            5.29           10.37
subtotal                    14.54           17.22           31.76
Equipment                           2.44            0.34            2.78
Technical assistance
and training                      2.95            1.05            4.00
TOTAL BASE COSTS              19.93           18.61           38.54
Price Contingencies                 3.53            4.89            8.42
TOTAL                       23.46           23.50           46.96
Front end Fee                        .04            -                 .04
TOTAL a/                     23.50           23.50           47.00
Financing Plan                                 US$ Million
Foreign          local            Total
IBRD                               15.00                            15.00
Other external sources b/           8.50            -               8.50
Jamaica                           _                23.50           23.50
TOTAL                         23.50           23.50           47.00
Estimated Disbursements: /                         USS Million
Bank FY                            84            85              86           87
Annual                            4.1           5.4             3.0          2.5
Cumulative                        4.1           9.5            12.5          15.0
Estimated Rate of Return:          50Z
Appraisal Report:                  No. 4344b-JH dated April 28, 1983
Map:-1                             No. 16846.
a/ Includes US$4.8 million of identifiable local taxes and duties, primarily
import taxes on equipment.
b/ A cofinancing arrangement with multilateral and/or private sources is
under discussion. Should such an arrangement not materialize, the Government
would cover the unfinanced foreign exchange cost.
c/ The disbursement schedule may be altered in the future depending on the
provisions of the cofinancing agreement.



INTSRNarIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAIION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$15.0 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a highway maintenance program.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An Economic Report entitled -Structural Adjustment, Export
Development and Private Investment' was distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors in June 1982. Annex I contains the basic country data.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
3.       The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brlsk growth perfor-
mance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external sbocks-and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth. Manufacturing declined by 31%, and construction by
58Z. The share of investment expenditures declined from 22Z of GDP in
1974-75 to 12-15Z of GDP in 1977-80, while consumption expenditures
increased proportionately, reflecting the private sector's declining
confidence and a rapid expansion of Government current expenditures.
4.       As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Govern-
ment current account, which had registered a surplus of 6Z of GDP in
1974/75, showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which
was reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declin-
ing production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing,
sugar and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.
The current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of
11% of GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979.
Lack of confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so
the deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from



-2-
17Z of GDP in 1973 to 46Z of GDP in 1980, and in declining net interna-
tional reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-532 million
in 1980, with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.
B. Development Strategy
5.        The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committ-
ed to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s. It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOK, was considered
the main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to
improve the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract
foreign private investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.        The new Goveriauent quickly established relations with the IMF and
in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility
Arrangement and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would
together provide SDR 536 million over the three-year period. The
Government also requested a structural adjustment loan from the World Bank,
and a first such loan, for US$76.2 million was approved in March 1982. The
SAL included conditions in balance of payments management, industry,
agriculture, and savings and investment, both public and private. A second
SAL is under preparation.
7.        One of the binding constraints on the economy during the 1970s-
and, of course, for the incoming Government--had been the balance of pay-
ments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One aspect was to attract a high level of official assist-
ance from bilateral and multilateral sources during the first few years of
the economic recovery program, to finance an increased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system of allocation controlled
primarily by market forces.
8.        An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an example' to
others.



- 3 -
9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was
to decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called no-
funds- licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early in
1983. It consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market, forma-
lization of its operations through institutionalization within the commer-
cial banking system, and a simplification of the import licensing arrange-
ments. A far more automatic system was established, based primarily on
possession of foreign exchange, which was in turn determined essentially by
market forces. There remains considerable administrative intervention in
the system, despite these reforms, because of the continued existence of
quantitative restrictions, and the existence of foreign exchange quotas for
non-exporters.  However, Government is committed to the gradual elimination
of all remaining administrative controls over the operation of the foreign
exchange market.
10.       The manufacturing sector-together with agriculture and
tourism-was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular
for an immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major pro-
blems: (i) an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports,
because of the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a
result of a shortage of foreign exchange; and (iii) outmoded,
inappropriate, and badly-working capital equipment, because of a lack of
investment during the 1970s, and the unavailability of foreign exchange for
spare parts. To reorient the sector, the Government is attempting to
redress the balance of incentives towards export markets, by gradually
eliminating the main means of protection, the quantitative restrictions, by
the introduction of an export incentive whereby exporters may retain 50Z of
their earnings from exports to third markets, and sell these at the
parallel rate, and by the expansion and liberalization of the Export
Development Fund, which provides exporters with foreign exchange to acquire
needed imports. Private investment, particularly from overseas, is being
actively encouraged, through the general improvement in the investment
climate, and through an agressive investment promotion agency.
11.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst
the productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export
agriculture had steadily declined. Government was committed to a revival
of export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this
goal, including:  (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and
the encouragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (ENOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the EMOs;
(iii) the application of export incentives to nontraditional agricultural
exports (i.e., excluding sugar and bananas); and (iv) the encouragement of
private investment, which has to date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.



- 4 -
12.       Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate
expansion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very
low levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive
promotion campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the
negative image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been
created in the seventies and that had seriously damaged the tourist trade.
Several Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private
sector, under terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. In
addition, the decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the
parallel market permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism in
Jamaica, increasing its price competitiveness.  The collective results of
this effort has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-302 a year)
at a time when tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10 a year.
13.       Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina
sector as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this
sector has suffered in 1981 and 1982 wab not expected or provided for in
the Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a
similar or slightly higher level of output. The Government agreed to
discuss changes in the production levy in relation to new investments by
the companies, but no major changes have yet been introduced. In recent
months, the Government has been very active in attempting to negotiate
bauxite/alumina barter deals, ln order to attempt to maintain the level of
output, or prevent it from falling even farther, and some success has been
achieved.
14.       Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth-the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower.
There was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts
have been made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing
efforts to upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those
of new entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in
attracting people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to
development.
C. Economic Performance in 1981 and 1982
15.       In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 by 1.9Z. Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign exchange. Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from
28% in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4Z of GDP with the financing of these
deficits coming largely from external official sources. However, the
current account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to



15.6% of GDP in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated. Never-
theless, with high levels of official capital inflow, an overall surplus of
USS43 million was achieved.
16.       In 1982, the Jamaican economy was severely affected by the inter-
national recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined by
26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was only
0.7%. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects the
decision by the companies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
4        recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession. If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particularly
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture,
reflecting stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery
of bananas, and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the
greater availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports.
17.       The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public
finances. The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy amounted to
J$109 million (1.9% of GDP) . In addition, expected Bank of Jamaica
profits (0.7% of GDP) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23%
increase in tax revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened
from 2% of GDP to 3.9% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit
increased to 15.5% of GDP from 14.2% the previous year, with two-thirds of
the financing required coming from external sources. This, in turn,
permitted a rapid increase in credit to the private sector.
18.       With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports
are estimated to have declined by 17% and merchandise imports by 8% in
1982. Non-bauxite exports rose by about 10%, and with tourism earnings
rising by a further 12%, and transfers by 28%, the current account on the
balance of payments improved to an estimated 13.4% of GDP. However, the
expected level of net capital inflows did not emerge, and this caused
difficulties with the net foreign assets target of the EFF. Consequently,
an adjustment of the target for the third year of the arrangement is
currently being negotiated between the Government and the IMF. The high
level of capital inflow in 1981 and 1982 has considerably increased public
debt, which had risen to 73% of GDP by March 1983; debt service rose to 24%
of exports of goods and services in 1982.
D. Economic Prospects
19.       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP
growth is projected to average 3-5% over the next five years, on the as-
sumption that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD countries.
This is a critical assumption, particularly with respect to bauxite/



alumina, tourism and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of growth,
GDP per capita in 1986 would still be 12Z below the 1972 peak. Moreover,
most of the recovery would be concentrated on raising domestica'ly financed
investment levels rather than consumption, which is projected to grow very
modestly, with national savings rising from 8.7% of GDP in 1982 to 14.2% in
1986.
20.       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countrtes, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 11% a year, largely reflecting re-
covery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would re-
cover their 1981 level by 1986, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC or US markets.
With imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level
of -13.3Z of GDP, to a level of about -5.82 of GDP in 1986.
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over
the period, but would need to average about US$350 million a year. With
high levels of amortization payments, this would mean that gross inflows
would have to average over US$500 million per annum; private flows are
expected to increase gradually, and to supply about one-third of the
required inflow over the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and
are projected to still be at a level of 232 of exports of goods and
services in 1986. This is considered manageable; provided that Jamaica
continues to pursue successfully its present stabilization and economic
recovery program, it should be considered creditworthy for continued
external borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank has made 30 loans I/ in Jamaica totalling US$463
million after cancellations. Of this amount, US$147.9 million (32%) has
been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power,
water supply and sewerage; US$180.8 million (39%) for program-type lending,
related technical assistance, and for a revolving fund for financing of
inputs for export industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture
and agroindustry (9Z), education (9Z), sites and services (32), forestry
(3x), population and nutrition (2%), small-scale enterprises (2%), and
petroleum exploration (2%). As of March 31, 1982, Jamaica's debt to the
Bank stood at $302 million, or 16.5% of external debt outstanding and
disbursed; debt service to the Bank during the previous fiscal year
amounted to USS36.2 million, or 13.5% of total debt service. These shares
1/  Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone company and cancelled in the same year.



- 7 -
are not expected to change substantially in the next five years. The
undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of March 31, 1983 amounted to US$87.5
milllion. There have been four IFC investments in Jamaica, with the most
recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour mill company.
23.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized
infrastructure investment. Although financing for this purpose continued,
the emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to
the .social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition,
housing and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In
response to the changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank lend-
ing took place in the late '70s which gave priority to financing to help
relieve the country's pressing balance of payments problems and improve
Jamaica's export performance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending program con-
tained a $30 million program loan and an $18 million loan for the rehabili-
tation of factories for Jamaica's export oriented sugar industry. The
Bank's second $31.5 million program loan in FY79 was also directed at pro-
viding needed balance of payments support, with most of the proceeds allo-
cated to the financing of the import needs of export industries through the
establishment of a revolving Export Development Fund. A second $37 million
loan to augment the resources of the Export Development Fund was made in
FY81. Bank lending to Jamaica has recognized that resolution of the
couatry's balance of payments difficulties will require making adjustments
to the economy over a period of time. As a result, a $76.2 million Struc-
tural Adjustment loan was made in FY82. The technical assistance require-
ments of the structural adjustment program were met through a $6.1 million
technical assistance loan made in the same year. Additional support for
the Government's export program was contained in a $13.5 million loan in
FY82 for the expansion of a free zone project in Kingston.
24.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided a $16 million
loan for highway maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 and a $30.5 million
loan for a similar purpose for the electric power system in FY82.
*            25.       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed at the following
areas: a) support for the structural adjustment program; b) projects in
support of export development; and c) projects aimed at conserving existing
investment. In later years of the pregram, when the country is better able
to deal with its short and medium term balance of payments situation, the
Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis on more socially
oriented projects.
26.       Loans currently in preparation inciude a highway maintenance
loan, a second structural adjustment loan and a third loan to finance the
import requirements of exporters through the Export Development Fund.
Other projects under consideration for Bank financing include a loan to
strengthen the Agricultural Credit Bank and to provide longer-term credit



- 8 -
and technical assistance in the export agricultural sector and a project to
upgrade transportation in the Kingston area. If the Government's struc-
tural adjustment program continues to be executed as projected with the
expected results, further structural adjustment loans may also be
considered.
27.       Disbursements of Bank loans in Jamaica have been timely on the
average in recent years; this largely reflects the high proportion of
quickly disbursing program and structural adjustment lending. Many project
loans, however, encountered delays in execution in the middle and late
1970's, reflecting primarily the country's difficult economic circum-
stances, resulting in fiscal and foreign exchange constraints, and institu-
tional weaknesses, exacerbated by an exodus of skilled and managerial
personnel. Performance of ongoing projects in the last two years improved,
as the economic environment became more favorable. The single most serious
obstacle to timely project execuuion remains the lack of skilled personnel
in the public sector; current Bank lending attempts to address this problem
in part through the provision of substantial levels of technical assistance
and an even greater focus on institution-building than in the past.
III. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
28.       The basic transport infrastructure required to meet Jamaica's
economic development needs is in place. The country's land transport
system is well developed and consists of about 12,000 miles of roads and a
200-mile long railway system, which is almost entirely Government-owned.
Apart from bauxite industry-related exports and imports, all internal
freight is by road transport, and practically all passenger traffic travels
on the road system. International freight traffic through 12 ports
amounted to 13.4 million tons of cargo in 1981. Six of those ports handle
bauxite-alumina exports, while four ports specialize in the export of
banana and sugar. The ports of Kingston and Montego Bay deal with general
cargo, and Kingston, Jamaica's most important port, operates a container
terminal partly for transshipment. Air transport is served by two
international airports as well as by several small domestic airports and
airstrips. The two international airports are at Montego Bay, which serves
the north coast and the tourist traffic, and at Kingston, which serves the
southern coast and caters mainly to business travel.
The Transport Sector Organitation
29.       Except for the road subsector, responsibility for transport ad-
ministration in Jamaica falls under the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport (MPUT). Within the road subsector, the Ministry of Construction



-9-
(Works), (MOC) is responsible for the construction and maintenance of the
main road network, and the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) is
res,onsible for roads maintained by Parish Councils, while thre Ministry of
Agriculture (MA) constructs and maintains agricultural feeder roads.
Planning for the greater Kingston area is performed by the Kingston and
St. Andrew Corporation (KSAC). The Jamaica Railway Corporation (JRC)
operates the public railway system, while the Port Authority of Jamaica
(PAJ) controls the port of Kingston and sets port tariffs for the rest of
the Jamaica ports. The Jamaica Merchant Marine (JMK), established in 1976,
is Jamaica's national shipping company. The Airport Authority of Jamaica
(AAJ) is in charge of the country's public airports, and Air Jamaica is the
national airline. These autonomous corporations report to MPUT.
Sector Issues and Strategies
30.       Since Jamaica already has the necessary transport infrastructure
to meet the demands of a reviving economy, large capital investments will
not be needed in the foreseeable future. Instead, moderate capital expen-
ditures to preserve and extend the life of existing facilities sbould be
the major focus in the coming years. Given the strained condition of
public sector finances, there is a need to ensure that the sector becomes
financially self-sufficient, with users meeting the costs of services and
transport infrastructure being used more efficiently. The country's plan-
ning capabilities should be strengthened in order to increase the sector's
efficiency through appropriate pricing and regulatory policies and a suita-
ble investment mix.
Transportation Planning and Coordination
31.       The lack of a centralized agency for planning and coordinating
transport policv was a main source of concern in the early 1970's when the
Government intended to make sizable investments in the transport sector;
therefore, provisions were made in the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
(Loans 1032-JM and 1740-JM) for technical assistance to establish a perma-
nent Transport Planning Unit within the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport (XPUT). The Government, because of budgetary restrictions, gave
no priority to this initiative, and the Unit was not establisbed. Since
overall limitations on public investment have resulted in abandoning the
ambitious plans of the early 1970's, the lack of intermodal planning and
coordination capabilities has not led to any serious misallocation of
resources. However, the Government recognizes the need to improve planning
capabilities within agencies in charge of the different transport sub-
sectors. To that end, a Road Planning Unit is being established within the
MOC to plan and coordinate all road construction and maintenance programs
undertaken by the Kinistry according to appropriate technical and economic
criteria. The proposed project includes funds to support the Unit. The
Unit, which commenced operations in April 1983, would be formally



- 10-
established by the Ministry of Public Service, with responsibilities and
functions satisfactory to the Bank, by September 1, 1983 (Section 3.05 of
the Loan Agreement). In addition, the Government intends to expand the
present planning capacity of the MPUT.
Financ£al Performance of the Revenue-Earning Transport Enterprises
32.       A key element in the Government's structural adjustment program
is a prog-ram tc bring about a substantial improvement in the financial per-
formance of the public sector. Among the transport sector public enter-
prises, however, only the Port Authority of Jamaica generates an operating
surplus. Both Air Jamaica CAJ) and the Jamaica RailwRay Company (JRC)
incur substantial losses. Despite AJ's aggressive management, which aims
at reducing costs and eliminating unprofitable services, coupled with a
determined promotional effort of the island's Tourist Board which has led
to improved traffic levels, the company's financial situation continues to
be difficult, mainly because fares required to compete with North American
carriers have increased break even load factors. With regard to JRC, the
Non-Urban Transport Study, carried out under Loan 1032-JM, identified
several measures to rationalize railway operations. As a follow-up to the
study's recommendations, JRC, with Bank financing under the Technical
Assistance Loan (2106-Jl), has engaged a financial expert to review the
railway's financial management and precing policies and to prepare an
action plan to rationalize the railway services, including the introduction
of tariff revisions and the closing of uneconomic lines. Preparation and
implementation of this action plan would be a condition under the proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan.
Investment Strategy
33.       Public transportation investment for the period 1977/78 - 1981/82
represented about 2% of GDP. The roads subsector accounted for an average
of 63X of transport investment for the same period, while rail, airports,
Air Jamaica, and ports accounted for 6%, 10%, 2% and 13% respectively.
Over the next three years public sector investment in transport is expected
to increase slightly as a percent of GDP. The increase is attributed to
substantial investments contemplated by Jamaica Merchant Marine In bulk
vessels for bauxite transporr.  Tne planned level and distribution of in-
vestment between modes is in line with overall priorities in the sector.
34.       The most critical need in the sector is the execution of an
adequately funded program of road rehabilitation and maintenance, a matter
being addressed under the proposed project. In the railway subsector,
needed investment in deferred maintenance of the bauxite-related railway
lines is under way, but capital expenditures on the rest of the network are
being deferred pending rationalization of railway services. In the avia-
tion subsector, investment in runway lengthening at Montego Bay's Sangster
Airport could be warranted and is under consideration. In the port sub-
sector, facilities are adequate to meet the transport needs of the economy;
the investment strategy focuses on the development of the Kingston Free
Zone adjacent to the port.



- 11-
Roads and Road Transport
The Road Network and Traffic
35.       Jamaica's road network is relatively extensive and totals about
12,000 miles. The main non-urban network, which is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Construction, totals about 2,900 miles, of which about 90%
are paved. Some major improvements have been made to the primary and
secondary networks over the past 20 years. However, the condition of part
of the secondary and the tertiary road network has steadily declined in
recent years, when fiscal constraints led to inadequate maintenance and -
consequent deterioration of these predominantly sealed surface roads.
Since the present road network is basically complete, the Government
investment strategy to restrict planned new investment in roads and
preserve the existing system is expected to continue for the foreseeable
future.
36.       Traffic on the island's main roads grew at rates between 6% and
9Z during the 1968-1974 period, and then, because of the oil crisis of 1974
and the subsequent economic downturn, stagnated and declined after 1976.
Traffic counts made in 1979 showed that there had been a decrease in
traffic of up to 16% between 1978 and 1979. This decrease probably
contlnued during 1980; although there was an influx of vehicles (mainly
cars) that year, this is likely to have had a greater effect on urban
traffic flows than on rural traffic levels. Available data on gasoline
sales, a reasonable proxy for traffic levels, shew that this declining
trend was reversed in 1981 as a consequence of the improved economic
performance of the country.
Road User Charges
37.       Road user charges have not been based on clearly stated
objectives or upon a comprehensive analysis of their impact on the
transport sector.  On average, road user charges more than cover all
recurrent and capital road expenditure requirements, although receipts from
these charges have been in part used for other sectors, and the maintenance
budget in the past has been underfunded. Fuel prices are the most
important source of revenue. In August 1982, the retail price of gasoline
was US$2.19 per U.S. gallon and that of diesel US$1.36 per U.S. gallon.
The tax component of gasoline and diesel oil retail prices is 40% and 12%
respectively. Fuel prices are sufficient to cover the c.i.f. import price
and refining and distribution costs.
The Road Transport Industry
38.       The road freight transport industry is relatively free from
regulation and operates reasonably efficiently. However, the cost



- 12-
resulting from the stress imposed on the country's road pavements by heavy
vehicles had been a concern for both the Government and the Bank for some
time. At the negotiations for the Fourth Highway Loan the Government
agreed that, in addition to taking necessary actions to enforce vehicle
dimension and weight controls it would also introduce changes in its
regulations based on its Axle Load Program formulated in late 1978. The
program was scheduled to be completed in three phases during 1979-1982.
There has been considerable delay in its implementation and needed
legislative action was approved by Cabinet only in early 1982.  Under the
provisions of the proposed loan, implementation of the 1978 Axle Load
Program would proceed on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.03
of the Loan Agreement).
Investment in the Road Subsector
39.       Road expenditures are financed through annual budget allocations
provided by the Government and through loans from international agencies.
Total expenditures on roads increased in real terms by 78Z between 1973174
and 1976/77, and then declined until 1980/81. when they amounted to only
26% of the level attained in 1976/77. This situation, only slightly
reversed in 1981/82, reflects a decrease in budget allocation caused by the
Government's policy to reduce public outlays. Road investments by MOC
accounted for an average of about 62Z of all capital expenditures on roads
during the period 1977/78 - 1981/82.
40.       The introduction of the rural road improvement program (RRIP) led
to a substantial real increase in expenditures on the road subsector in
1982/83. While this program correctly aimed at the rehabilitation of the
rural road network through employment-intensive methods, it was not based
on an economic analysis of its appropriate size and scope, nor were the
selection criteria for roads to be included in the RRIP well defined.
Recognizing these problems, the Government, with the assistance of con-
sultants financed under Loan 1740-JM, has defined appropriate selection
criteria and methodologies to be followed in future investments under the
program. The Road Planning Unit would collect necessary data and conduct
the required economic analysis for the development of the program.
Road Traffic Safety
41.       The Island Traffic Authority (ITA) and the Traffic Area Authority
(TAA) are responsible for the administration of traffic management meas-
ures. The enforcement of road traffic regulations is the responsibility of
the Police Traffic Department. Despite the efforts being made by these
authorities to improve road safety standards and enforce traffic regula-
tions, the frequency and severity of roads traffic accidents are considered
high. In the interest of developing a more comprehensive road safety pro-
gram, the Road Planning Unit, with the support of ITA and TAA, would review
the current road safety practices and formulate and enact specific programs
aimed at improving present road safety operation (Section 4.03 of the Loan
Agreement).



- 13-
Past Bank Assistance for Highways
42.       Over the last 18 years the Bank has assisted the development of
road transport in Jamaica through three projects. The First Highway Pro-
ject (Loan 408-JH) for US$5.5 million was made in April 1965. It helped
finance the detailed engineering and construction of main roads and was
satisfactorily completed in July 1973. A Project Performance Audit Report
was issued in August 1975 and highlighted the need for detailed engineering
and improved cost estimates before loan signing. This is now standard
practice for road projects. A loan for a Second Highway Project (Loan
899-JM) for US$9.3 million was made in June 1973 for road maintenance. The
Second Highway Project fell short of its initial objectives, owing to
sharply increased costs, which made it necessary to reduce by almost 50%
the number of miles to be resurfaced. The loan nevertheless succeeded in
resurfacing 220 miles of road and resealing an additional 240 miles of
road. while making a substantial contribution toward improving the quality
of maintenance works in MOC and toward preserving the road network.
43.       The Third Highway Project, Loan (Loan 1032-JM) for $13.2 million
was made in July 1974 to help finance the construction of about 20 miles of
new arterial roads which would relieve congestion on the most heavily
trafficked sections of the network. Construction was completed by force
account after substantial delays caused by difficulties with contractors
and labor which resulted in increased cost. A Project Completion Report,
issued on December 31, 1981, concluded that MOC performed well under
extremely difficult financial circumstances and with its resources
overtaxed by the unplanned construction by force account teams of most of
the civil works elements of the project. The Fourth Highway Project Loan
(Loan 1740-JM) for US$16.0 million was made in June 1979 for road mainte-
uance and is almost completed. It is, together with the Second Highway
Project, the precursor of the proposed project. Because of severe Govern-
ment budget constraints, the project was reassessed in mid-1980 and only
50Z of the original overlay program and 85Z of the resealing program is
being achieved; these shortfalls are somewhat compensated by the originally
unscheduled rehabilitation of about 440 miles of roads, 260 miles under the
project and 180 miles from Government funds. Other components of the
proiect such as equipment rehabilitation and training h2ve been completed,
although they fell somewhat short of their original objectives; there has
also been less-than-expected progress on maintenance management and opera-
tion of the Hire Funding Scheme. These matters will receive increased
attention under the proposed Highway Maintenance Project. Although the
project would be completed with a one-year delay in August 1983, after the
initial setback, it has progressed reasonably well and helped maintain the
focus on road maintenance.



- 14-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Development and Preparation
44.       A report entitled  Staff Appraisal Report - Highway Maintenance
Project (No. 4344-JK) is being distributed separately. A Loan and Project
Summary is presented at the front of this report and a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III. The project was appraised in
October 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington during April 11-13,
1983. The Government was represented by a delegation led by Mr. Harold
Milner, Financial Secretary.
45.       In early 1982, the Government requested and the Bank agreed to
the financing of a study from the proceeds of the Fourth Highway Loan for
the development of the next phase of the maintenance program for the coun-
try's main road network. The findings and recommendations of the study,
which took place during June-October 1982, provided the basis for formulat-
ing the Government's Road Maintenance Program for FYs 1983/84-1986187 (RMP)
and, within that, the proposed project.
The RN?
46.       The REP is designed to provide for urgently needed periodic
maintenance of selected sections of the main road network, procurement of
vehicles and maintenance equipment, and further strengthening of the
institutional capability of the MOC. It is in line with a strategy which
emphasizes the preservation and extension of the life of existing
facilities and stresses the importance of improving maintenance and
management practices. The program comprises: routine maintenance of the
main road network (covering roadside bushing, cleaning of side drains and
culverts, and routine maintenance of bridges and other structures);
intensive pavement patching and rehabilitation of the main road network;
periodic maintenance consisting of asphaltic overlay and resealing;
procurement of about 365 units of vehicles and equipment; and technical
assistance and training. The estimated cost of the program is US$94
million, of which about 37% represents foreign exchange costs.
Project Objectives and Description                                                    =
47.       The objective of the project is to help provide continuity to
road maintenance operations which were supported by the Second and Fourth
Highway Loans. It consists of the periodic maintenance and technical
assistance provided for under the first three years of the RMP, as well as
the first year of the vehicle and equipment fleet renewal program
recommended under the study. Specifically, the project comprises:
(a) Periodic road maintenance consisting of:
(i) Asphaltic concrete overlay of existing pavement on about 160
miles of roads;



- 15-
(ii) Asphaltic sealing and resealing with double surface
treatment of some 360 miles of roads; and
(iii)  Preparatory work, such as drainage improvement and surface
patching, for Ci) and (ii) preceding;
(b)  Procurement of utility vehicles, dump trucks and miscellaneous
maintenance equipment, tools for maintenance and repair of
equipment; equipment for training; and
(c) About 245 man-months of technical assistance by consultants for
the strengthening of MOC's planning, maintenance and equipment
management and training capabilities.
Periodic Maintenance
48.       Periodic maintenance works for the roads would be divided into
three phases, each corresponding to a one-year works program. The first
phase package was identified during appraisal and comprises about 60 miles
of overlay and about 100 miles of sealing and resealing works. Road
sections for inclusion in the subsequent phases would be selected by MOC
following an evaluation methodology developed under the study mentioned
above (see para. 45). A list of roads to be included in the remaining two
phases. together with the economic justification for their selection, would
be submitted to the Bank for review not later than March 31, 1984 and March
31, 1985 respectively (Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement). Since a large
number of short rad sections are expected to qualify for periodic
maintenance, it was considered appropriate to adopt this sectoral approach
of subproject selection, which would provide greater flexibility for the
packaging of contracts and execution of works according to changing needs
and resource availability.
Technical Assistance and Institutional Improvements
49.       There is a well recognized need for institutional strengthening
of selected areas within HOC, and local staff would be recruited to fill
newly established positions. Since there is a shortage of sufficiently
experienced technical personnel in the country, the newly recruited local
staff would initially be assigned as counterparts to consultants to be
engaged under the technical assistance component of the loan (Section 3.0Z
of the Loan Agreement). Specifically, the consultants would assist MOC
with:
(a) the implementation of the periodic maintenance as well as
other components of RMP;
(b) the operation of the newly established Road Plaaning Unit (see
para. 31);
(c) the reestablishment and operation of the Hire Funding Scheme;
and
(d) the planning and implementation of the Training Program.



- 16-
Hire Funding Scheme
50.       In early 1976, a Hire Funding Scheme (HPS) was introduced into
MOC with the main objectives of (a) reducing the overall cost to the
Government of owning, maintaining and running the fleet through improved
management; and (b) developing funds needed for equipment replacement and
spare parts by charging rental rates to users. It was envisaged that the
scheme would progress through stages of development to eventually become a
self-financing quasi-Government corporation. After more than six years,
HFS has made only limited progress. Despite initial efforts to establish
and operate an appropriate accounting system, monthly accounts are one year
in arrears and basic financial information is difficult to obtain.
Record-keeping systems are not functioning as intended, and information
which would facilitate timely management decisions is not readily
available. Operating costs are excessive, and BFS has, so far, been unable
to generatz funds for equipment replacement.  In fact, despite an annual
Government subsidy of about J$ 4.4 million, the net loss on operating
expenses over income, in FY 1981182, amounted to almost J$2.0 million.
51.       After comprehensive review of BFS operations, it was concluded
that the major deficiencies of the scheme's operation were mainly
attributable to its organizational framework and that, therefore, the
scheme should be organizationally as well as physically separated from the
Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services (DENS) and operated on a
commercial basis. Accordingly, the Government plans to reestablish EFS as
a commercially operated corporation on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement).
Training
52.       MOC's Training Unit lacks funds, qualified instructors and
experienced staff to develop and supervise training programs required at
different staff levels in the Ministry.   Provisions would be made under
the technical assistance component of the project to strenghten MOC's
Training Unit and expand training activity, particularly in areas closely
related to road maintenance. An action plan satisfactory to the Bank for
carrying out a training program would be prepared by MOC by February 29,
1984 (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimate and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project (see Project summary) is estimated
to be US$47.0 million equivalent, including price contingencies based on
projections for domestic and international inflation. 2/ Physical
contingencies were not calculated since the project supports the RMP, and
Zl   Domestic inflation is assumed to be 10% annually during 1983-1986.
Estimates of international inflation are as follows: 1983, 8%; 1984,
7.5%; 1985, 7%; and 1986, 6Z.



- 17-
the performance of a specified amount of periodic works is not critical to
the project's success. Identifiable local taxes, consisting primarily of
import duties, amount to US$4.8 million of the total project cost. The
foreign exchange cost of the project, including the front-end fee, is
estimated at US$23.5 million, equivalent to 50X of total project cost and
about 25% of the total cost of the RIP. The proposed loan will finance
US$15.0 million of the total foreign exchange cost. The Borrower is
presently attempting to arrange cofinancing with multilateral and/or
private sources to cover the foreign exchange gap. The Borrower would
finance the local component of project cost (US$23.5 million equivalent),
as well as any foreign exchange cost component for which external financing
cannot be identified (section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement). The Borrower
would also provide sufficient funds to finance the remaining portion of the
RMP (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement). The Borrower would consult with
the Bank annually concerning the budget requirements of the RMP (Section
4.05 of the Loan Agreement).
54.       Cost estimates for asphaltic overlay, sealing and resealing are
based on consultants' estimates which were prepared using quantity
estimates from detailed road condition inventories and current contract
rates in Jamaica for this type of work. Estimates for preparatory work are
also based on road condition inventories and on recent costs of similar
work by contract and MOC force account. Estimated cost of vehicles,
maintenance equipment, tools and spare parts are based on lists prepared by
the consultants and MOC together with manufacturer's quotation and recent
purchases in the region. The average man-moaths cost for consultant
services is expected to be US$10,000, which is in line with the current
cost of these services.
Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
55.       MOC would be responsible for project execution.  The Directorate
of Maintenance (DM) would implement the periodic maintenance component of
the project. DEMS would administer the equipment procurement and also play
an important role in the re-establishment of HFS. The Personnel Direc-
torate, through the Training Unit, together with other Directorates, would
be involved in the implementation of the Training Program.
56.       Tne institutional strengthening of 40C through technical assist-
ance is a key element of the proposed project. Based on experience gained
during the implementation of the Fourth Highway Project, the additional
staffing needs of DM have been addressed. New positions for a Contracts
Engineer and three Field Engineers would be established and filled by
September 1, 1983 (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement). In recognition of
past difficulties experienced in attracting high level staff and filling
counterpart positions, the Government has made arrangements to provide ade-
quate financial incentives to attract and retain key professional staff in
the MOC; these arrangements would be put in place on a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). In addition, it
is presently considering improvements in the overall pay structure the in
civil service. Furthermore, as a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan, counterparts for the consultants with the functions of RMP Co-



- 18-
ordinator, Planning Engineer, and Training Specialist would be assigned
(Section 6.01 of the Loan Agreement). Appointment of the counterpart for
the Hire Fund Manager would be a condition of disbursement for the
equipment component of the project (Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement).
57.       While there is sufficient capacity within the aggregate industry
to meet expected demand for aggregate for maintenance works in the near
future, sporadic shortfalls in both quantity and quality of aggregate
material have impeded maintenance efforts in the past. To address this
problem, the Borrower would define the aggregate requirement for its RMP
one year in advance, give advance notice of aggregate requirements to
quarries in the various regions, and make foreign exchange available for
the purchase of approved new equipment and spares in the interest of in-
creasing the quantity and quality of production (Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement). At the same time, in order to further increase the capacity
and efficiency of the road construction industry, which has shown signs of
strengthening in recent years, the Borrower would ensure that foreign
exchange would be available to contractors participating in the RMP for the
purchase of spare parts and new equipment (Section 4.04 of the Loan
Agreement).
58.       The project would be implemented between April 1983 and August
1986. Periodic works and technical assistance, including the training
program, would extend over this period, while the procurement of equipment
is expected to be completed by end of 1984.
59.       The three phases of the periodic maintenance program, except for
a portion of the preparatory works, would be carried out by contract.
Because of the scattered location and the short sections of roads involved,
it is unlikely that contracts for seal and reseal works (representing a
total value of about US$9 million) will be of interest to foreign contrac-
each not exceeding US$0.7 million in contract price per package. These
contracts will be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures
(Schedule 4, Part B of the Loan Agreement), with foreign firms permitted to
bid. Contract packages for overlay works amounting to about US$13.0
million would cover about 30-50 miles each; these works would be open to
foreign firms through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with the Bank guidelines (Schedule 4, Part A of the Loan
Agreement).
60.       Preparatory works amounting in value to about US$11.0 million
would be primarily carried out under force account by MOC (Schedule 4,
Part B of the Loan Agreement); however, it is expected that a portion of
these works, covering drainage and structural works and amounting to about
US$3.5 million, would be carried out as in the past by local contractors
selected under local procedures acceptable to the Bank.
61.       The procurement program for vehicles, miscellaneous maintenance
equipment and tools, indicating lot sizes and estimated cost, would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank. Contracts with an estimated cost of
more than US$50,000 amounting to US$2.2 million would be procured through
ICB, following Bank guidelines; other contracts for miscellaneous



- 19-
maintenance equipment, tools and vehicles for the training program, with an
estimated cost below US$50,000 but not exceeding an aggregate of
US$500,000, would be procured in accordance with local competitive
procedures acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 4, Part B of the Loan
Agreement). Consultants (with a total contract value of about US$3.5
million) would be selected according to Bank guidelines.
62.       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 46% of expenditures for overlay, resealing and preparatory
works and improvement of physical training facilities;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports of
equipment and spare parts;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
by consultants and for training abroad; and
Cd) Front-end fee -- the amount due.
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation for all items
except preparatory work. In the latter case, disbursement would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) certified by consultants. The
estimated schedule of disbursements is based on the disbursement profile
for the Fourth Project.
63.       Provision is made for retroactive financing for expenditures up
to a total of US$0.40 million equivalent for preparatory works carried out
after April 1, 1983, in order to ensure continuity of periodic maintenance
operations (Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).
Financial Reporting and Auditing
64.       HOC would establish and maintain separate project-related
accounts at the parish offices, with responsibilities for consolidation at
the project office under the supervision of the Financial Controller. Such
accounts would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally
recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank to
enable HOC to provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect
the progress and financial performance of the project. The opinion and
report satisfactory to the Bank on such statements would be provided by the
Auditor General of Jamaica within seven months of the close of the fiscal
year, as from FY1983/84. The audit report would include a statement of the
adequacy of the accounting system and internal control, on the reliability
of SOEs as a basis for loan disbursement, and on compliance with loan
convenants (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement).
Economic Evaluation
65.       The proposed periodic maintenance works were economically
justified on the basis of lower vehicle operating costs and time saving of
road users resulting from improved surfaces and higher average speeds.



- 20-
Savings from an expected reduction in accidents were not included in the
analysis, and, to the extent that improved surface conditions improve
traffic safety, the estimated economic rates of return are conservative.
The 520 miles of periodic maintenance included in the project have an
estimated rate of return well in excess of 50. The Phase I periodic
maintenance program which is fully defined yields a total net present value
of J$ 118.0 million for overlay works and J$ 5.0 million for seal and
reseal works at a discount rate of 12%. Benefits resulting from the
equipment component of the proposed project, which represents about 7Z of
total project cost, have not been quantified, but the reduction in the
average age of the equipment fleet is expected to increase the efficiency
of maintenance operations through a higher rate of equipment availability
and utilization.
66.       A high proportion of the roads expected to receive surface
improvements under the project belong to the tertiary road network which            N
services rural dwellers. It is expected that producers and consumers of
agricultural goods which are transported on the road system would benefit
from the project. A proportion of the transport cost savings resulting
from the project would also be passed on to bus passengers on the project
roads, who belong mostly to low income groups.  It is estimated that the
direct incremental employment generation of the project during execution
would be about 2,000 jobs, of which 1,750 would be filled by unskilled
laborers.
Project Risks
67.       The noticeable strengthening of the contracting industry in
recent years, the possible participation of foreign firms in overlay works,
the planned strengthening of the contract administration of MOC's
Directorate of Maintenance, and the expected measures by the Government for
the support of the quarrying and construction industries were considered
sufficient assurances for meeting the periodic maintenance target of the
proposed project. In order to reduce the risk of inadequate equipment
support, the procurement of essential maintenance equipment has been
included in the proposed project. Based on past experience, such equipment
could be purchased without undue delay. The risk arising from MOC's
institutional weakness is being addressed through the provision of
substantial levels of technical assistance and training, the expansion of
the Maiatenance Directorate and the rationalization of Hire Fund Scheme
operations. The difficulty of recruiting suitable local staff for newly
established posts has been recognized, and the Government has adopted a
recruitment strategy in order to minimize such risk. Moreover, the
assignment of key counterpart staff would be a condition for loan
effectiveness. In the light of the above measures, it is believed that tVae
principal risks would be sufficiently reduced to allow the project to
achieve its set objectives.



- 21-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Appointment of key counterpart staff in the MOC would be a
condition of effectiveness. Other special conditions of the Project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 28, 1983



- 22 -
ANN   I
Page 1 of 6
JAMAICA - SOCAL INDICATB3 DATA 
JdIICA                    IRNF8INCN  51  CZlU TDAVN q
NOTAAL    D     11. KM.)                        MHOST IlCCtNT RECNT ESTIMATE=   m
AGRCULTURAL      4.8             1960 /b   1970 /b ESTIMTE /b    WIN MERICA a CARI38A           3001
GNP PSR CAPITA (Uf)              480.0       340.0   1040.0             1902.0                 2323.9
NElRCY CONSUPTIION PER CAPITA
(KIILSL     OW  ALQUIVALa)    424.2       1224.9   1326.1             1259.9                 2107.4
POPULATION AND VIL STATISTICS
POPULATI0N* MIDEA  trUAD) 1629.0          1877.0   2172.0
URsM POPuiLATION (PERCENT CF TtAL) 33.8     37.2     41.3               65.7                   47.9
POPULATION PRJECTIONS
POPULATION 1N YEA 2000 (MILLIONS)                   3.3                  .
STATIONAUY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    5.0
EA STLTIONARY POPULArION LB REACHD               2065
POPUIATION SMITY
PER SQ. IR.                   148.2      170.8    195.5 .             35.2                   83.3
PER SQ. RE. AGRICULtIRAL LAND   332.4    337.0    452.4               92.5                  155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCEN)
0-14 YUS.                      41.7       47.0     40.8               39.7                   31.1
15-64 YIRS.                     54.0      47.5      53.2               56.1                   61.2
65 URS. AD ABV                  4.3         5.6      5.9                4.2                    7.Z
POPUIATION ROUTH RATE (PERCW)
TOTAL                           1.5/c      1.4/c    1.5/c              2.4                    1.6
URSM                            2.5*       2.4-      Z.                3.8                    3.5
CRDE BIRTH  T  (Pm THOUSAND)    39.4        35.3     28.7               31.4                   23.6
CRUDE DUTH RATE CP  THOUSAND)    9.5        7.6       6.4                8.4                    9.2
GaSS RE.ODC.tON PATE             2.6        2.6       1.9                Z.1                    1.6
FANILX PLANNIN
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)   ..        19.3     27.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF NAMAED WHNOl)   ..       ..
FOD AND NUrRITION
WtNE OF FOOD PwOCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)       98.0       99.0     93.0              110.0                  116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                94.0      111.3    118.1/.             108.4                 125.1
PRoEINS (CRAMS PER DY)         S.1       67.4     69.04              66.0                   92.7
OF WHICH ANDUL AND PULSE     28.2       32.8     34.4rl             34.0                   35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MRTALniY RATE    3_1        1.2      0.3                5.6                    9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT B6ltN (YEARS)   64.2     68.6     70.9                64.2                  67.6
INFANT MWRTALTrY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        51.5       32.2     16.2               64.2                   65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE HATER CPERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                          20.9/f     62.0     86.0/d             65.6
URBAN                          64.6/f    100.0    100.0/ir            78.9
RURAL                           5.7/1    48.0      79.0/r             43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOtAL                            *        94.0     94.0/d             59.3
URBAN                            ..      100.0    100.0fi             75.3
RURAL                            *-      92.0      91.04r             30.0.
POPULATION PER PSYSICIN        2589.8    2643.7   3523.0/h            1617.3                 1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON  419.1lR   1725.2    547.0/li           1063.5                  634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOtAL                         241.2      344.7    263.0/h            477.4                  286.8
URBAN                            *-      220.8       ..              679.8                  192.0                             S
RURAL                            ..        ..        ..             1903.4
A4ISSION PER NOSPITAL BED         ..        17.0    19.0/h              27.3                   20.0
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF WOUSEROLD
TotAL                           3.9        4.3
MURAN                          2.7
RURAL                          4.8         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER RDOE
TOTAL                           1.9        1.6
URBAN                           1.6        ..
RURAL                           2.0        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UWELLINCS)
TOTAL                            ..        ..
RRA                              ..        ..



0  i   !s   E1§0     1                                                            90i'lgS3      f"    0t   lg flg|g0312|g  Ea
Ii           |~ Hl q                         r~IN   KP  *",r  0Sfyy1pSpEi   |i 
i    It!j|  i  e M!E  "w.   :E   " S ow   # ee  M ee   e         ifi      o|HI
d                                                                                    191~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



-fam -we T"=s p-  P.-M                                     -T-4d a-F"a-w                                      n=      - 3
-_gv  _   _s.3  .2          _                           _        -r__
ml £~~~~~~~~~                                     3-~~~w     OS1 3333-SOSS" S---""   - 333f IVVVIS    333- _3VVT .3I
W.C." AM   3.VV-F  Sq -it- 3-VSWI  '3d       - 3.  P3339 J- 3W334Sq
1 sr      - At V-  -_ 1- - 
ZittWs -3 w VP            . -. iW -        V P         - 
Mn= -Am~~W F..q            V-V T- -1    )- S- -    Tq-
-231- 3=SoM  *w --4 - -      -     3 -       '3   S    - 3-
P      1Vmwv ' pq it-S  - V - 3-( 3,       i     -w"VM)       3.
_L~~~~~~~~~~~~-_t-_-a_-                                     _           -        _14    Y _ Vv    iN_ P-qK       lI)-4d
am as as-nob- Pm-   Tn-    -" 3VtV 13"bm-                                       v--- *-i-n-   a- -                     -lO 3  -   3
mpum!=   tt>1                                             31i _--4.513=
3 q  3     _       3-93.. P =323s -  . _ .     1    1 -          P1r 32                                           q-  67s3 m lt ._
_ _ _> _-   33 3.33a _p     2A *31- --I            1-3                         12  I- -3  S-
3W       3.3  3=1-' 1-' 3tt                 39- 3. ~*3.1 3 43 * '33~3- i_ta 3-.i.  ml3- .3.3  3._-
V,               _       1         I 32   i -  __9311_1    3 _al  -     1-t.  3 -W
-m   WI  a--"             t33-  =4 333 33at.3 £ 21.3k                      1--"'                  3i-t1' -   7-.-  s_ -mm.     4     lit;  *-.Z d
-- 1-1      Al 933=            3-I_        .      -S."  3         W                         3l 3" _* T- " - (--1    -2
*333W        _      333 ,-         -                             _ M.                   C      -    31 _1-34331 tA.l *1 .l-2
33=St £3    it .-M-  333=3=343. £33   31 _-   3 33=3.-3 1 *3 St                                A 3 -pi- 33 -   *       - 3  ."."     1-- 
v ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ "3        -      U---*   tm w                   _          .%       o Tn-         *s -10  's qnq.S  ..~
.u   _q   e    *      P-   '-_l 'U  c       r _           j-  - D a  - AM _       -1 33-WM
iinin  mw  -f.u  33    q        23.S  1333   1 13-             C               34333 23   -"    3C  'iw it  ,     i3_   "M.t -a --P
M_Va." -SWT                           P.-JV"  -  zMfs A        x   *        n -p  st ,- _(-T -1333 In    _3 a-  .TW_.-        l23-  .-  3 =-1.
.F3md                                   -M  "3"9.%3md1*-1                         _.'  t  -  Iq - !-          S    1   '7-    3I3  .3
-aF -  19~ 3- '1-1 3-   333d3  3. .13.33 .33=3 133 33                                               23  *1 3- 0&-t _ -13. lS-33_ 3.3  P3333s--al
-   De"t _3 33         3 -0  21       3-- 1                                p-  .G -. 1   -C  l- it3-  vs_
A. -ft    W- 13-   3  ' I  33.21. 3                        3.    -S   -  ._ at      2 V    _- 1   4     -2 3-    .-1   _
wS331.313=  3      -3=3133 -a' 3. 3-on3      3  3131 -                  3=33  33931.1 *313.3 i_w-3mitP13 - -~                       AU9333 .33 3.d
-              3.133 3=31*41132. 3i 'gal  --a -v  iT   33330.343=  L3 M      031            3= -13it PM  --P-33 W T-111VIVI    34 - V-"   33WA 3 ( 3.-q   -m'i
v- vwm"~.~ &---        11-tm  w -%-  -Sm I-)   533.:2.-iS*. - 3=133 i P33 3334-  333A3 3.3 3 -; ,.5d3. 
-wa 3=23T-3a - 31-5a -  M --a  -  ---                   3 - .                3 _ *3 3 23it  33-  - (33_ _               W-" SVI 3--ep 9- _3.3'
-1-   -n     -5 -Fxmru        Ut 9 DM -1 3= mud    -  A-   M 1                           .*-  -1313     -S3 (3- 3.3 'rltt3333
13 itn _ 3 '- 3_ -  39  * 3  =31J3-31_                            -J. 11-                q '31434    . 3.1    -s
3..qin *3.3323.3--i  33-3. it 3~33 333=1 - Y1~~J*~il3- _                   D      3  39 3=3-333_ .am _IWV-_1 Pit
*-I 3=0(33 -_3.1 s.333    1_ 1_333 _.  *1-2. - 3.39333                 -_223 33_._s,- 3331- titgSit.1 qi -  3It  4 q      -1n- S 33w
ss3.3W   *_3')  4_3333 it -s           I -                                -1192'i 3=13933232P it            I     33 .I  _3 -3   .3 : - 3.3' _  -.
3=33.3331*it3.3- 1     33WS.i  -4                Pi"                     v-  P-3 P- 31 13 -- i      213 M-114- 3cu'i i3 I"  -  .i34--I
l . _ __ ., ,. -_ > _,d *#_ -{S_ _im
21   I I     3=33l0341 -3   01 A 09h1 1.393*13                   3'  33    313            33.13.3.I'-.t.ll    . 
I-sr-l-A *n_3   it )    3                                                   -           ._    T t-.
32   us-        2*3.-A    3-    - 3.9         PM  "m-* t-.3f                              - (    3.3  3.d '3 3n-  -P --  3    -333*_3 -
.3.33313AL   3..34t  VwVt £1.3amm.o   (3.-W `SIT...w1.3_53.3 ,                           3- A ( ATV.,  1   13t3     -P-3  333 'it=   3-
AL -    ... R. -I                        -ft - 333= "it £=       - 3.33213                   - 3  *C33w  3m 3.
*itI1. 313-       =       3-23333. .3.3) 333'. £34 3-633111 *GU    -  "           .3 _ Dn_=
3.  1- 393w -3t  _ .3it _-1  3w   - w3it_       V 1-    .1            29- 1)                        t-U-         'ai '-      I --.S   "33 3
93  - 331 3-3-t -   33- 21 3 .A1tP.. 33iats                                                             3=11133- 3= 3-T-Vi-%--
__ _333 3W. it 11   -  13-p J3 q    ss s.l  i _ t __-J. 3W3d-                                     T       --    -         -it *13
1-333.1-4~ ~ ~        ~ -n - 3Xp                                                                       *D.m~  I  3WS.    .im  3W3^ t.33P    111
"'- A~~~~~~TI--d-o.                                                                                 _ o ; > sTo *n_ n _-C.
33 -            - 43=3313333 3=3-4 1 '--T A 23-01_        *3-md        _.''-93v               1 -     y    _ '1_1)  _       is W33  NF;3-933
333m~~~ IL _.3-1.i3  3=13-i 3a  3. 'I13  _3                            -=3343.4  11   13-31- .31*33     31-3  -333119
- 3-39.q.3.3313  az  433333- C A.       .33331UA                 33335  . 1-1                 3i3  1*3"LVa *p- 3m9  -93t147 ! 3-S
3.3-  A. Pt33                                                                         m- .3__-e   5-1W  *2  i
-  itt. S*339  mt   3-'-P SLO  .                                                                             3 l333 .  o 3-3331-
33.  .I-3itm-ft -      3-L  -  a....       13.        31               SO  --9  11 OK   -.-M9   -..         3P     -3333i
4 __--13                         3' _     At3 M it                                                         3P  M1   3 
333 _33 331-=  _. .3453|q flY -J (331-e      333  3=~3  3.                       -3    .3332.432   te  - ~t3   m  *13 9.0-3
--                                                                                                                                         -A-  C   n   13  33_ 3-,  -  1   3 **    - (- -  -3
_3 _.3~          .3W9  -sv 4.33333=  P3-w2 .31  33 -~                        _                          lW-4 1- 0!-19_ e*S-3t 333
vwpftm          r3 *                                                        1 _     J. _    1  n-   a -  n-P4 v-  a-m 1  s -3
-.S V._p  MN   .0 --   _ -M  _               ~   -    qz-       1 w    -a-nd  _-pD -  w-i &- LP-pV--[.  -p3   -q. 
I AX3=  W£ -it 3A33    ;1  13333          W   -                             -W q.* -tw  -W-  (-1 3-_ 4:) -i'   -°  -3
(.3-3m   -    '-193 32333  3m1  -(3333  .33 3-31133-                                                        P3233. 3-M3 0(31-3.  3.-s
_Z8-P3 -" v-_                                                                                     (     1- 3-  9 33313.3 O-  *-(3-P-
it_33=933- 3.       3-13  -_ 1. s  I 3= 5.l4             -- - g-.d.3.            _ It        - W3-f-d -    133% 3S _I_Vi _3
it 3.1133-  3- 1it31 -  S~~  3-  3T-  j. 3n-- M- -11                                ---       * 333 4131 3=  "l A-3-  %51
_3iit3       £ .  3. ..34.p -'3 Sqw                        3=! 133-3=13-    3       33 V- 1-_ - ; M 133-1         a u.4
£_3W  ..--AP-                            .*1-   v- itT53 3. Y1t33-P1-3333 it 7                                                             VM
.  .- 333... 3.b 333.3  1- 1         N113-3- 13 33=4                       --" 34    -& it1-3- W   39! -  .- 3133  M=31 V-; p    -I-
-  _ -         _          -M- v      .--.  -. q_313=13'3  2                           -3 .3  2.a                  .                      3B
_~~~~~~~.3                                                   Z.-  --P  - n-."       -       -- -           _d -12.-
m_VwS-&w   _qm  at.1-                                                      IMZ" -  .m              3P_ p- t-_ 3- -f &R-.x         1_~
£ .1=9 3= 0-  1   -    13-3= T" M -133 -2 1i-533.                      cos:  P--33      23 531111.3  3-ittP 3  3.- 3-   0333 '3       3
aimam   _  s   133313W. 3                 .... " 3'       'i §p                                                            -9.43-c_  gx-;-
-' 1~~~~~~~~~-am    J1vq- ".o                                                                  -W' 1KI--     m  low !~<_T      l  xs
S VW~~~~ ~ ~~-r-  i l_  "p_    -P-V% v  -I     5   3PV                 -   .A_TT ~         -3 A            
In-VT O  33.p - S            S. 3-331   1D33.  91VSO3.r  -33                3==,3=233*            I332333 3=-'11 3. -31  3'343SW3
-aGl-M 1a.w_ Y- -Zv ---
.3313333  3-.3  3    ~   323P 33  -333       33.               332-1  1   1   - VMS-IV*'13.33= 3 3=31 -             .3331 M.mm A
-. 1S3.1           Tm -     S     VW :3339   £3-lAd     it 3.-3323 9_3- 53W .3 £. _                  .t   31 _ 3        3   3
3=    T . -  --  z-DM    T1                                                   6 0-1-153:.393   1  .fl   33 2t   3 0m      - 3Md  -W3 91-  ".3 it  1333  -~, M93334 &
v--.3   13 3v-    T- 1-   3-liit --T q,                   - S--r3 93-A                   - i   Wt rv39 32-.          -       _ it  _ -
S,A ZQ.tA  .A1 fjoSftm           -    ~   u        -           'li-TS" al-UM-TV `-1pi-  -                 _  A1-m- 4P_    -  _
Al VIVI-VI                -n- A3   3                            4 S3   3-  m i3          *3   *      ,      2
3-...3. Ar- 3.3.3*331 33331.3393    .tl               3332n               --'3v "R3 3- 35 M~         --W-* 1333=3   IM,   'il .3-p3
-t Pe          PM.        PM T-Ats vIl-  _-  nq  "w *TV_                 _ r--                        v-V    tcar-a  - -3J    -v
-P1'3  39   lti      33133               mm33  433W333  =-                 --P  32613=. 3*S33- 933.3331  3393 -sS    31  3
-333.' 333_3-                   333331 _3392 3. 33.3- 33   `33_   P           "-C 33233
3=   -  n-    W     -Fft 3933-3- AS-  -'t=t3    .1i3                           131..        1 -- '1  lit 3-- '3 pm .3 59 3-3 ;13* 333
1    M' JO 3*   'in.0 -1--   --V%1-$M V33            D- 5.         a.                 -MM_ 3P _     -3-W D 9t 3-='.3  r 0-w-t 0 V33A1-3 -
M".-    -  1-39-13- --W        ' '3.-.--    .3- muma- vwp                    V8              w   -                .  -C 3"01ni4 33-3333*
-3-3- 1 PV1 _M-- __ -3  9-'    . Cit_3 _   1- 01 M1 -dtiO -3-
331-29.3-9    S   Sm .333.3 ~3333.9 V-''1-VSVI3  K3t  -                3233p 3. SF13  '3- 33.Sm~3=9.3- 3               3-333333  -31
33.3333.331  -M 3- P3333333 33. *3-1-t    -I.233-3 3133 . A4-               -333.334343323333-   J. W--3   -332. J.        33=) V.3-d33533
33-.3-3  13w-I *  S- _   (31O _-3*w    _) 339-33.313=                                                                                     *32
@|l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3. 1- -mit03. :_ 513fw 3. *.  - ('=3.3 '3=P2   _=-363 t- 2 oU3
_ *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1331-S _3' _  _ *
--_1 13_- n- 3               - 1-- * a   133   11.3 -13.33 -                    1- - M.3A "                 1-       p 3     -up-a3134     - -W
*.333*o  C313=33323.  - 3.33333-333993 333-  tt                               33. flu-sam3          3    1         3      ti1  3  33
_n   >. o  rs    _IT - _ v                                     - f s_ z-_  
9139-.1    313*39 - _W- 1- 233                          1n              -33'a 33413- _-     3..-13=3233.1._   mnS >-- li3v
-g 133.3333331313=                          33339£32333235
I.33  539a.i  --1t2          .333343   -3-3   -3313                     =333   =113   -           1~33393=33-*.33                     --



ANNEX I
- 25-                                          Page * of 6
JAMICA: ECOWUMC DEVELOPMENT DVAT
Population:     2.2  LLkn (C-d-1980)
GNP ftr Capita: US*1.W4O (1981)
Aount                                      Actwl                                  Preliinarv
(million U$ at      1975     1976      1977      1978      1979      1980     1i81         1982
current prices)    --
1981
PRICES
GW Deflator (1974-100)                           121.2    134_0      150.4    189.4    219.6    256.0    274.7    295.7
Exchange Rate (J5 per US5)                         0.91      0.91      1.25      1.48      1.77      1.7       1.78     1.78
Share of GDP at *rket prices (2)           AveraR Aacal Incrersr (2)
(at constant 1974 prices)                (at constant 1974 prices)
1976     1981      1986                        1976181   1981186
ATOnaL AccoOms  'I
Crass De matic Piodact           2925.3                    100.0    100.0    100.0                           -1.7       4.0
Agrliclture                    235.7                      8.2       8.7       8.8                         -1.0        5.0
Industry                      1068.1                     34.3      29.1      32.0                         4.2        5.3
ServIces                      1621.5                     57.5      62.2      59.2                         -O.2       3.0
Cencunption                      2647.8                     96.0      90.0      75.6                         -3.5        1.4
Gross Domastic Investment         557.8                     18.8      20.9      20.0                         -6.7       3.5
Exports NS b/                    1447.2                     25.4      52.1      63.9                          8.9       6.8
IXporta CNF5 'I                 -1727.5                     40.5    -63.0    -59_5                            1.8       3.5
Gross National Savings            229.2                      5.9       5.3      13.6                        -16.8       34.6
An 2 of CDf                            Prell-da r
1977178            1979180                       198G198-1383
PUBLIC FIlING c1
current Reen                                                20.5                25.7                29.4               29.0
Current Expenditure                                         26.2                29.7                31.4               32.9
Surplus E*) or Deficit C-)                                  -5.7               -4.0                -2.0                -3.9
Capital  Expenditure                                        10.5                 8.1                12.2                11.6
ForeiLg Finane  (net)                                         .6                 3.2                 9.6               10.0
a At mcket prices.
D;  ased on balance of P e e   p-an  dt.
FIscL Yea  - April/Karch 31  F4gures refer to Central Goerent operations.
Estimated.
April 1983



-26-                                     ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
1976-81       1981-86
OllDBL IXDICAIORS
CG  CrGoth Rate (2)            -2.4           3_2
GOP per Capita Growth Rae CZ)  -3.5           1.8
lCOR                           -6.7           5.3
- argitisi Savings Rate        38.4          60.4
Import Flatclcty               1.4           0.9
Annua Growth Rate (S)
Cat conetant 1978 prices)
Indicator             (CUlLn U5S at                     Actual,                 Estl ated          Projected      -
current prce_s)
1981          1977   1978   19i9   1980   18t         1982    1983  1984  [985  1986
EXTERNAL TRDE
Merchandtse Exports (fCo.b.)   985.2          6.2    1.0    0.5    0.0    3.0        -16.8    24.1  -I.S  21.0   9.4
Baux1telaluuina             758.6          14.1    2.9    0.0    6.7   -1.5       -23.2    26.1  -7.7  23.4   8.9
SugsrlBanas n                50.5          -5.8   -6.9   -4.8  -34.S  -16.3        -1.7    36.0  16.7  25.3   7.9
Other                       176.1         -16.7   -2.6    4.1   -2.8    8.0         10.1    14.3  12.0  12.6  11.6
mercbhadLse Imports (c.i.f.)  1485.0        -24.8    2.6   -3.6   -7.7   22.8       -10.0      5.6   1.8   8.9   7.2
Food                        105.0         4". -  20.8  -22.9    0.0   50.0          2.0    -2.0   3.0   2.5   2.5
etcroLeus                   4392            1.9  -14.9   18.6  -16.9   -1.8        -4.7    10.7  -7.0   3.4   S_8
Machinery and Equlpmt      Z16.1         -47.6   12.2   11.7  -10.3   4B.2        -21.4     6.2   4.8   4.5   4.6
Other                      e64.7          -23.2    6.6  -13.6   -2.8   22.7       -11.2      3.4   6.6   8.5  10.0
PRICES
Export Price Index (1978-100)    -         92.0  100.0  102.5  121.4  119.4        116.1   118.1  127.4  137.8  147.8
Import Price Index (1978-100)    -         88.6  100.0  120.3  152.4  157.2        158.0   154.2  163.2  172.8  183.7
Term of Trade Index (1978-100)  -         103.8  100.0   85.2   79.7   76.3         73.5    76.6  78.1  79.8  80.5
Co5peltioe Of Merchandise Trade C)          Average AnnuaL Increae  (2)
(at current prim )                   (at constant 1978 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1981  1986       1971-76        1976-81      1981-86
Exports                               --   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  1W0.0         -3.0           80.3           7.8
BauxitelALumina                            49.3   63.9   62.4   77.0   61.7        -2.5             2.3          S.7
SugsrAlasnnas                              31.8   14.5   22.4    5.1    8.7 4.3/-12.7    -12.21-29.4    10.1147.5
Other                                      18.9   21.6   15.2   17_9   29.6        -3.6            -1.8         11.3
Imports                                     100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0        -6.1           -2.4           3.2
Food                                       16.6   13.5   11.6    7.1    7.7        -7.2            -4.8          1.4
Petroleum                                   8.3    6.3   19.1   33.6   27.6       -11.9           -3.5           2.7
acbhinery and Equipment                    18.7   29.5   22.0   14.6   15.9        -7.9           -0.7           1.9
Other                                      56.4   50.7   47.3   44.7   48.8        -1.7            -2.0          4.4
April 1983



ANNE I
-27                                        page 6 of 6
JAMAICA -  A1A    OF PAVINS. EXZRZIAL CAPITAL AND DET
(aillions of USS at current prices)
Actual                                            Projectedl
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981          1982    1983    1984   1985    1986
BALANCE OF PAThESIS
Exports of CNFS                   903.6  982.5  1119.5  1207.7  1408,1  1413.3           1308    1566    1695   2060    2373
Of uhich  Kerchandise Eo.b.   630.0  724.0  7921   814_7   962.7  974.0                737    915      952    1223    1430
Impors of CUPS                   1131.2  920.0  1055.8  1227.7  1413.6  1673.7           1639    1736   1855    2124    2416
of which: lerchandise c.i.f.   912.8  746.9  856.6  994.0  1159.5  1457.4              1370   1407   1520)   1755   2006
Net Factor Services             -112.3  -128.6  -178.6  -20Z.6  -251.7  -201.5           -23'   -310   -323   -365   -403
Net TransEers                       5-9  Z.O   25.7    80.0   90.6  124.3                135     139    140    145       147
Current Account Balance           -334.u  -46.1  -89.2  -142.f6 -166.2  -337.6             -431   -315   -364   -284    -299
Private Direct Investnet             -a.5   -7.0  -26.7  -26.4  -11.0   -2.8                  -       -       -       -       -
XLT Loan  (net)                     102.2   63.9    57.4    12.1  207.4  103.8              392     386    235    214    194
Other Capital b/                     18.4  -70.7  -80.0    14.9  -91.1   155.8            -107       54    149    ISO       165
Change 1a Reserves                  213.9    59.9   138.5  142.0   60.9   80.8              146   -125       40     40      -60
(increase - -)
Internacional Reserves (ner)       -116.3  -176.Z  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3          -619   -494      454   -374   -314
EXrE4L CAPITAL ASD DEBT
Gross Oisbtrseints                179.5   83.0   l12.9   17t.7  Z95.8  473.3              501    759    614       580     589
Project Loana                    3t.2    26.6   42.6    32.0   47.8   38.1               34      41      49     60       70
Special Financing                 -      19.4  198.8  125.5  139.5  139.4               298    406      334    280      240
Other Official                   73,0   71.0  -71.0    20.3  135.1   87.3               128    249      169    172    205
Coverenat Guaranteed             47.0   38.5   23.3    11.5  50.6    3.4                41      63      64      68      74
Private Direct (net)             -0.5   -7.0  -26.7  -26.4  -I.O   -2.8                  -       -       -       -       -
Lines of Credt (net)              -      11.3    33.6    1I.5   -9.Z      5.0             -       -       -       -       -
Other dj                         28.8  -67 8  -87.7   -2.7  -57.0   167.9             -107       26     149     150     165
OfficiaL Debt Outstanding         831.8  905.0  1022.7  1080.8  1298.8  1497.8           1797   2201    Z700    2986    3230
Debt Service: Total Service
Payentscl         102.8  159.1   144.6   165.5  177.6  239.4              314    378    440    497        543
Izerestc/           54.2   66.0   62.2   97.9   126.4  138.1               217    253    293    313        351
Payments-as S of
Exports            1l.2    16.0   12.8    13.6   12.5   16.4               24      24.1   ZO.0   24.1    22.9
Average Interest Rate on New
Loens (C)                        _        _       -       -       -       _               8.0     7.4    7.5      74      7.9
Average Maturity of New Loans
(year)                           -       -        -       -       -       -              11.5    11.3   11.6   II.S    11.6
a/  Projections on a fiscal year basis April I - March 31.                                 April 1983
6/ Includes errors and oeissIons.
cI Includes payments of interest to IMF but not principal.
dI Includes privste debt and unSdentified capital flows.



- 28 -
AUM 11
Page I of 6-
STATUS OF RAW GROUP OPERATIONS IN JANAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1983
-U S$ millio
Amot
Loan   Fiscal                                         (less cancellation)
NO.   Year   Borrower          Purpose                 Bank  Undisburued
15 loans fully disbursed 1/                           220.3
1146   1975    The Water        Sewerage/Water          15.0    0.0
Commisslon.
1284   1976    Jamaica          Population               6.8     1.3
1464   1977    Jamaica          Rural Developamnt       15.0    3.5
1516   1978    Jamica Public   Power                    20.0    1.1
Service Co. Ltd.
1517   1978    Sugar Industry   Agriculture             18.0    3.9
Authority
1609   1979    Jamaica          Small Scale Industry     7.0      .3
1715   1979    Jamaica          Second Program Loan    31.5       .2
1716   1979    Jamaica          Forestry                12.0    3.7
1740   1979    Jamaica          Highways                16.0    3.8
1978   1981    Jamica           Export Development      37.0     9.8
Fund
2017   1981    Petroleum Co.   Offshore Petroleum        7.5     5.1
Exploration
2070   1982    Jamaica          Third Education          6.8     6.5
2106   1982    Jamaica          Technical Assistance    6.1    5.3
2107   1982    Jamaica          Kingston Export Free     13.5  13.0
Zone
2188   1982    Jamaica          Power                    30.5  30.0
Total (net cancellations)                    463.0
Of which has been repaid                      50.1
Total now outstanding                        412.9
Amount sold                       1.6
Of which bas been repaid         1.6           0.0
Total now held by Bank                       412.9
Total undisbursed                                     87.5
1/  Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of Karch 31, 1983
US$ million
Date      Borrower           Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete        0.2      -        0.2
1969  Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.          Tourism                 2.2     0.7       2.9
1980 West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.          Glass containers        2.3      -        2.3
1982  Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing               5.0       -       5.0
9.7     0.7     10.47
Less cancellations, terminations
participations, sales and repayments          2.3      -        2.3
Total commitments now held by IFC              7.4     0.7       8.1
Total Undisbursed                              1.6      -        1.6
C.  Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1464-JM: Rural Development Project: US$15 million Loan of June 29,
1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
i
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and a difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. About half of
the target group of settlers have been placed and two-thirds of the farm
homes have been completed or are under construction. Road construction and
supply of water and electricity to the nine settlement areas is advancing
rapidly. Only two of the six completed markets are operating; the Ministry
of Agriculture is attempting to resolve the institutional and construction
problems which have delayed the opening of the others.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Ln. No. 1516-JK: Second Power Project: US$20 million Loan of March 6,
1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consi-
derable delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most
of the loan proceeds have been committed. Project completion is now
estimated for September 1983, about 18 months later than the appraisal
forecast. JPSC's operations have been seriously affected by the limited
availability of its most fuel efficient generating units due to poor
maintenance and operating procedures and a lack of spare parts, and the
loss of skilled and managerial staff. Its financial position has also
deteriorated. The company has completed rehabilitation of two of its
generating units, and will continue its rehabilitation program under the
Third Power Project (La. No. 2188-JM). Recent tariff actions should result
In an improved financial position in the future.
Lu. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million Loan of
March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing
date: March 31, 1984.
Although some progress in the rehabilitation of factories has
been made, implementation slowed seriously during the past two-and-a-half
years due to the critical financial situation of the Borrower. As part of
its structural adjustment program, the Government dissolved the sugarcane
cooperatives in 1981 and is attempting to divest the sugar mills owned by
NSC. It is also undertaking a program aimed at strengthening NSC's
management, cutting costs, and speeding implementation of the field and
factory rehabilitation programs. These actions should result in an
improved financial position in 1983.
Lu. No. 1609-JN: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project:  US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27,
1978; Closing date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Remaining uncommitted funds from the very small scale enterprises
subprogram were reallocated to PIC early in the year and have been fully
commitL2d. Portions of the portfolio under the latter subprogram are in
arrears; strenuous efforts to reduce the arrears level are under way.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 1716-JX: Forestry Project: US$12 million Loan of June 8, 1979;
Effective date:  December 11, 1979; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule, due to delays in the
allocation of land for the project and labor problems, but is now
proceeding satisfactorily. A new nursery with a capacity of one million
plants per year is being established; the pine inventory has been completed
and the hardwood inventory is underway. The new saw mill was installed and
began running-in operations in 1982. The financial position of the
Borrower has been deteriorating; Bank-financed consultants are reviewing
the project in-depth.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway Project: US$16 million Loan of July 10,
1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, and shortages
of key staff and of budget resources6. In view of the Government's diffi-
cult budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project
was restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential main-
tenance work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic
maintenance. Since restructuring, execution of the project has proceeded
reasonably well.
LQ.- No. 1978-JX: Second Export Development Project: US$37 million Loan of
May 15,-1981; Effective date: August 6, 1981; Closing
date: December 31, 1983.
The loan provides financing via the Export Development Fund (EDF)
for imports of raw materials and spare parts for nontraditional exporters,
medium-term financing for exporters and their suppliers for capital equip-
ment and working capital, imported inputs for the banana industry, and
technical assistance. New procedural rules were introduced in early 1983,
and these-combined with a change in export incentives-have sharply
increased the demand for EDF resources.



-32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
La. No. 2017-JM: Offshore Petroleum Exploration Project:  US$7.5 million
Loan of June 16, 1981; Effective date:  February 4, 1982;              w
Closing date: June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at promoting exploration of Jamaica's                 @
hydrocarbon potential by strengthening the Petroleum Company of Jamaica
both as a partner of private international companies and as an independent
investor. The first well yielded no shows of hydrocarbons; further
drilling in the Pedro Bank area under the project will depend on contract
holders whose contract extension will expire in November 1983.
Reinterpretation of marine seismic data is expected to be completed in June
1983; seismic surveys of other offshore areas are under execution. Plans
to construct a pilot plant for waste oil recovery are underway; as a
consequence, the feasibility study on waste oil recovery has been dropped
from the project.
Ln. No. 2070-JM: Third Education Project: US$6.8 million Loan of January
14, 1982; Effective date: March 24, 1982; Closing date:
June 30. 1985.
The project is directed at strengthening the technical and voca-
tional education system by expansion of the training capacity in the
College of Arts, Science and Technology, the Vocational Training Develop-
nent Institute, and the ladustrial Production Centers.  It also provides
for the development of new teaching programs and the provision of learning
materials. The project is approximately one month behind the appraisal
schedule. All components have been initiated and are making-reasonable
progress.
Ln. No. 2106-JK: Technical Assistance Project: US$6.1 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Effective date: April 30, 1982; Closing
date: September 30, 1985.
Initial delays in recruitment resulted from the Government's
decision to change the coordinating agency of the loan from the Project
Analysis and Nonitoring Company to the National Planning Agency (NPA). Of
the 35 positions and/or studies currently identified to be financed under               )
the loan, over two-thirds have been filled and are operational or
completed. Candidates-have been identified for the majority of the
remaining posts. UNDP's Office of Project Execution is assisting NPA in
identifying candidates, recruiting consultants, and servicing contracts.
There has been some reallocation of loan funds and identification of new
activity to support the Government's structural adjustment program.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 2107-JM: Kingston Free Zone Project: US$13.5 million Loan of
March 23, 1982;  Effective date:  August 16, 1982; Closing
date: December 31, 1987.
The project is directed at increasing foreign private investment
c            and developing manufactured exports through the construction of shell
factory buildings and supporting infrastructure in the Kingston Free Zone
area. Physical execution of the project will be about one year behind
schedule, in part due to a fall-off in demand for factory space from
foreign investors affected by the world recession. Good progress is being
made in obtaining technical assistance funds for training and promotion.
Lu. No. 2188-JM: Third Power Project: US$30.5 million Loan of July 27,
1982; Effective date: February 28, 1983; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan provides for rehabilitation of steam power plants,
expansion of transmission and distribution, technical assistance to
strengthen management and maintenance, and equipment. Execution of the
project has been delayed as a result of delays in meeting the conditions of
effectiveness, but the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
C.



_ 34 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Section I    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Loan request made to Bank:  February 1982
(b) Appraisal Mission: November 1982
(c) Completion of Negotiations: April 1983
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1983
Section II   Special Bank lpmlemementation Actions:  None
Section III  Special Conditions
(i) An additional condition of effectiveness will be appointed
of key counterpart staff in the NOC (para. 56).
(ii)  Appointment of a counterpart for the Hire Fund Manager will
be a condition for disbursement of the equipment component
of the loan (para. 56).
(iii)  Other special loan conditions will be:
(a) satisfactory implementation of the 1978 Axle Road
Central Program (para. 38);
(b) current road safety practices to be reviewed and
programs aimed at improving present road safety
operations to be extended (para. 41);                              )
(c) satisfactory implementation of a plan to staff critical
position in HOC (para. 56);



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(d) measures satisfactory to the Bank to ensure that timely
supply of aggregate in sufficient quality and quantity
(para. 57);
(e) measures to assure availability of foreign exchange to
contractors participating in RMP (para. 57);
(f) formal establishment of Road Planning Urit with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 31)
(g) positions for Contracts Engineer and three Field
Engineers to be established and filled by September 1,
1983 (para. 56);
(h) adequate funds for the project and for the road
maintenance program to oe provided by Government
(para. 53);
Ci) the list of roads to be included in the second and
third phases of the road maintenance program, together
with the economic justification for their selection, to
be submitted to the Bank not later than March 31,
1983 and October 31, 1984, respectively (para. 48);
(j) preparation of action plan for carrying out staff
training program by February 29, 1984 (para. 52);
(k) establishment of HEFS as a commercially operated
corporation on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 51); and
(1) retroactive financing up to US$0.4 million for prepara-
tory works carried out after April 1, 1983 (para. 63).



,roo                                    7703W
CA- * / 8 g 
3i       s4           1 0V                 2S                           g 
MONTG                                               go,
Mon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R' E-_
R                                                           I
EHi       D  Ro L                                             Town
X   /   e.,.  E T H \\  G   A R E S
of todRJ>& 9<\ ~MANDEVILL S 
I~~~~~ROPCFD PHASE I PPcs RAM   tN C RI   Skw                                     Ck E 
-  Seal and RCoossal                                                            R.w
* Moin artemn C~1111 F00115,    =°IVEVI
5eordy min roocs          N                    V-n S(
-    .sphaltRaic uls  O
-   Mein PbI orts
4+  IMrrTlional AWpOrtS                                                         Rody Fi
4,  Local Airports                                      B4    A  IV
Couinty Boundari          oA
Intemationl Boundories  MILES          1
Rivs                 ILOMETES     1   I   20   5
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7O                                                   1r2



IBkD-1686
a,  &___  _s---#  --  -                     _                                -c
_c__ b n,_________*_ b v ~~~~~~~~~~~~s--0-- |---.
£  A~~~~~ A Rr
A_C       u_Ia__       _    _ _o                              o
RR~~~~~~~~_OWd___=S_K-- , D  _o
0~~~~U                                                    --  C
;    rL~~~~~~~~s
M- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - 
E            .,- -   s -avm*~.. /  'V
E S f JAMAICA3 a/   R  T LR1
-             H             M S T  N  -NENCA R
X o. i      S_NS                   a      z      ar
ST~~~~~~~~~~~ C  TT 1[NE"A
--'<                                   JAMAICA
< ~~HIGHWSAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
n  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~72






