Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 11128
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
SEPTEMBER 17, 1992
Department III
Infrastructure Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - J$
Official Rate               Approximate Selling Rate at the
Official Parallel Market
(Since January 1983)
US$1.00 - J$1.78            US$1.0  -  J$2.60
J$1,000 - US$0.56           J$ 1.0  -  US$0.38
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CDB      Caribbean Development Bank
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
DEMS     Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services (MOC)
DM       Directorate of Maintenance
DPB      Directorate of Planning and Budgeting
COJ      Government of Jamaica
HFS      Hire Funding Scheme
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
MOC      Ministry of Construction (Works)
NPV      Net Present Value
RMCS     Road Maintenance Works Costing System
RTU      Road Training Unit
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 17, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jamaica Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 2293-JM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Jamaica Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2293-JM)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTLNANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
TABLE QF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..............................................................
Evaluation Summary .....................................ii
Part I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity ....................................             1
B. Background ....................................                   1
C. Project Objectives and Description.                               2
D. Project Design and Organization.                                  3
E. Project Implementation.                                           5
F. Project Results. 
G. Project Sustainability.                                           9
H. Bank Performance and Lessons Learned.                             9
I. Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned .11
J. Bank-Borrower Relationship .12
K. Consulting Services .13
L. Project Documentation and Data .14
Part II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Comments on Part I of the Project Completion Report .15
B. Evaluation of the Bank's Performance .16
C. Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance .16
Part III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans .18
Project Timetable .19
Loan Disbursement .19
Project Implementation .20
Project Costs and Financing .21
Project Results .22
Status of Loan Covenants .23
Use of Bank Resources .25
This document has a restricted distribution ind may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Highway
Maintenance Project in Jamaica financed under Loan 2293-JM for US$15.0
million.   Loan 2293-JM was approved on May 26, 1983, and the project was
carried out from 1983 to 1989. The original closing date was June 30, 1987,
subsequently extended to June 30, 1989. The loan was fully disbursed, with
the final disbursement made on January 11, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Division Country
Department III, of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. It is
based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, information gleaned
from the project files, and materials obtained during project completion
mission and discussions with Bank staff and MOC(W)'s consultants who were
associated with the project.
This report contains Parts I and III prepared by the Bank and
Part II prepared by the Client. Part II reflects the Borrower's perspective
of the project's implementation achievements and difficulties.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The Highway Maintenance Project was designed to ensure continued
Bank assistance in the road sub-sector to support the Government's strategy
for preserving, rather than expanding,  the country's main network.   The
project provided funds for urgently needed maintenance of selected sections
of the network; procurement of vehicles and maintenance equipment; and
strengthening the institutional capability of the Ministry of Construction
(Works) [MOC(W)]. It also supported the re-establishment of a Hire Funding
Scheme to manage MOC(W)'s equipment and vehicle fleet. The main thrust of
Bank assistance in the transport sector was to further the development
process to upgrade the road transport infrastructure, begun under the
previous four Highway Projects, Loans 408-JM, 899-JM, 1032-JM, and 1740-JM.
The project was closely linked with the macro policy objectives to foster
economic development through institutional strengthening and the reduction of
transportation costs (paras. 1 through 3).
Implementation ExRerience
2.          From its beginning the project was classified as a "problem
project" and its implementation was substantially at variance with the plan
agreed at appraisal. Implementation was affected by several problems: (i)
delay in declaring the project effective; (ii) delays in procuring technical
assistance consultants and hiring local counterpart staff needed to
strengthen MOC(W)'s project management capabilities; (iii) delays in
purchasing the new equipment; (iv) poor maintenance of MOC(W)'s existing
equipment and its low availability when it was badly needed for the force
account works; and (v) a critical shortage of counterpart financing.  The
latter was aggravated by untimely releases of funds, lack of coordination
among the external lending agencies, and price escalation for construction
materials.     The re-establishment of the Hire Funding Scheme to manage
MOC(W)'s equipment fleet constituted a key element of the project.   The
Scheme could not be organized and operated as intended because of a financial
plan problem and the lack of technical assistance consultants, who were never
hired (paras. 15 through 25 and 33).
Results
3.          Overall, the project results were not satisfactory.  There were
some positive achievements, yet some of its main objectives were not
realized.   The project took about seven years to complete 70Z of the 520
miles of periodic maintenance agreed at appraisal. The intended equipment
and vehicles for road maintenance were procured. However, the Hire Funding
Scheme, the axle load control, road safety, and training programs were never
implemented. The borrower's principal focus was on the maintenance works and
purchase of the road equipment, both of which used up most of the loan funds.
The Road Planning Unit (RPU), assisted by consultants, developed the
capability to prepare, in-house, all new projects for appraisal by lending
agencies, with a minimum of external technical assistance (paras. 26 and 27).



- iii -
Sustainabilitv
4.          The sustainability of the benefits derived from both the works
completed under the project and the acquisition of maintenance equipment will
depend on the Government's commitment to carry out both routine and periodic
maintenance.  This will require strong institutional support and adequate
funding. Poor maintenance practices and the failure to establish the Hire
Fund Scheme may put the project's results in jeopardy. The achievements made
with the Road Planning Unit were not sustained (para. 28).
Findings and Lessons Learned
5.          The Bank underestimated both the financial complexity of the
Project and the impact of the IMF program on the Government's finances. A
better financial planning at appraisal and Bank financing of a larger share
of the works component (the original 46S was not realistic) might have helped
to off-set, to some extent, both the shortage of local funds and the effect
of price escalation. Furthermore, the Bank was apparently oblivious to the
fact that scarce Government's funds were being allocated among numerous
donor-sponsored projects, often with inadequate regard for economic and
technical priorities.  The result was that the Government was not in the
position to fulfill its obligations to meet the budgetary targets for project
implementation.   The problems which affected the implementation of the
Highway Maintenance Project were almost identical to those which plagued
implementation of the previous four road projects, namely: budgetary
shortfalls; variances in the scope of the projects; extensions of the time
for the projects' completion; lack of final engineering and poor cost
estimates and the resulting cost over-runs; insufficient financial, technical
and administrative capacity of the project executing agency; and lack of
support for institutional improvements. This project also underscored the
importance of compliance with the loan covenants, which constitute an
integral part of Bank projects' design.  The re-establishment of the Hire
Funding Scheme was impaired and the expected economic benefits vitiated due
to the non-compliance with the Loan covenant to contract technical assistance
(paras. 29 through 31 and 33).
6.          MOC(W)'s performance was hampered by the lack of institutional
capacity for the amount of works under its responsibility. Among others, the
Ministry should review its role as an entrepreneur of works, to define the
amount of works to be carried out by force account and through private
contracting. The long recognized need to reorganize the MOC(W) still exists.
The Government has placed highest priority on the reform of the public
administration and the on-going follow-on Road Infrastructure Planning and
Maintenance Project provides for the strengthening of the MOC(W)'s
operational capabilities through implementation of institutional changes that
will improve the cost-effectiveness of MOC(W)'s investments. Furthermore,
MOC(W) has, for the first time, consolidated all the programs supported by
the various international lending agencies active in the sector in a well-
focussed investment program based on economic priorities. The implementation
of this program is to be monitored at annual coordinating meetings of MOC(W)
and all participating agencies, which will play a catalytic role in
furthering the institutional and operational changes pursued under the Bank's
follow-on project (paras. 32 and 34 through 38).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Highway Maintenance Project.
Loan Number:       2293-JM.
RVP Unit:          Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country:          Jamaica
Sector:           Transportation
Subsector:        Roads
B.    Background
1.    The Highway Maintenance Project was designed to ensure continued Bank
assistance in the road sub-sector to support the Government's strategy for
preserving, rather than expanding, the country's main network. The project
provided funds for urgently needed maintenance of selected sections of the
network; procurement of vehicles and maintenance equipment; and strengthening
of the institutional capability of the Ministry of Construction (Works)
[MOC(W)], including training for its staff, to plan, program and carry out
the annual road rehabilitation and maintenance operations. The project also
supported the re-establishment of the Hire Funding Scheme as an autonomous
entity that would manage MOC(W)'s equipment and vehicle fleet.   The main
thrust of Bank assistance in the transport sector was to further the
development process begun under previous projects to upgrade the road
transport infrastructure. These were: the First Highway Project, Loan 408-JM
(US$5.5 million, April 1965), which financed preparation of final engineering
and the construction of main arterial roads; the Second Highway Project, Loan
899-JM (US$9.3 million, May 1973), which supported road maintenance; the
Third Highway Project, Loan 1032-JM (US$13.5 million, June 1974), which
financed construction of arterial roads and the development of national
transportation planning; and the Fourth Highway Project, Loan 1740-JM
(US$16.0 million, June 1979), which provided financial support for the Five-
Year Maintenance Program (1979-1984), including technical assistance to
establish a permanent Transport Planning Unit and the Equipment Hire Funding
Scheme.
2.    The Highway Maintenance Project was thus the Bank's fifth generation
dealing with Jamaica's roads, carrying on a World Bank presence that has been
virtually continuous since independence. The project was closely linked with
the macro policy objectives to foster economic development through
institutional strengthening and the reduction of transportation costs.



-2-
C.    Proiect Obiective. and Description
3.    Proiect  Obiectives.   As  described  in the  appraisal  report,  the
project'a objectives were to: (i) support the Government strategy to preserve
rather than expand the country's main network by pursuing the strengthening
and expansion of maintenance capacity undertaken under the previous Bank-
financed highway projects; (ii) begin a high-priority routine and periodic
maintenance program; (iii) upgrade MOC(W)'s maintenance personnel through
functional skill training; (iv) reorganize MOC(W) to relieve it of the burden
managing its equipment and vehicle fleet; and (v) implement a program for
controlling axle loads and a road safety program.
4.    Prolect Description    The project was designed with the following
components:
a)    implementation of a 3-year routine and periodic road maintenance
program  (YY83/84 - FY85/86)  that would reduce a backlog of
deferred road rehabilitation and maintenance, necessary to
safeguard the physical integrity of the main road network. The
program comprised periodic maintenance for 520 miles of roads, of
which 160 miles needed pavement overlays and 360 miles had to be
sealed or resealed. Many road sections to be overlaid needed
preparatory repairs, which MOC(W) chose to carry out by force
account, whereas the required periodic maintenance works were to
be executed under contract with private contractors;
b)    procurement of equipment for the five-year renewal program of
MOC(W)'s vehicle and equipment fleet, and purchase of workshop
tools and spare parts;
c)    technical assistance and training for institutional strengthening
of MOC(W)'s capability to plan, program, and to carry out future
routine and periodic road maintenance programs, including the
three-year program financed under the project.  Specifically,
consultants were to assist the Ministry in (1) implementing the
periodic maintenance program and other components of the project,
(2) operation of the newly established Road Planning Unit, (3)
re-establishing the Hire Funding Scheme, and (4) planning and
implementing the training program. To achieve these objectives
MOC(W) agreed to employ qualified staff to fill its existing
vacancies. All staff were to receive training in administrative
and technical tasks to ensure cost-effective management of the
country's investments in roads. The institutional strengthening
program also envisaged a reorganization of the MOC(W) to improve
its operational capacity including a program under which the
Ministry's equipment and vehicle fleet, as well as the
responsibility for its management and maintenance, was to be
entrusted to the Hire Funding Scheme (HFS), an entity which was
created for this purpose under the fourth highway project; and
(d)   implementation of the 1978 axle load control program and a review
and implementation of the road safety program.



D.    Proi-ct Design and Ortanization
5.    Conceptual Foundation.  The project was designed to carry out road
maintenance activities to generate economic benefits to the national economy
and to help MOC(W) develop a cost-effective road management system.  The
focus of the project activities was on intensive periodic and routine road
maintenance to preserve the country's road network, and institutional
improvements to better manage MOC(W) equipment through tne Hire Funding
Scheme.   The concept was shared by all relevant parties and was well
understood, since similar project objectives had been part of the Fourth
Highway Project.
6.    Support for the Hire Fund Scheme under the Institutional Component was
a step towards an eventual privatization of the equipment management
function. MOC(W)'s management of its equipment fleet has been inadequate.
A chronic shortage of spare parts and inadequate maintenance practices had
resulted in a low availability of equipment (50S or less), which had been
detrimental to the   timely execution of MOC(W)'s scheduled maintenance
programs.  Re-establishment of the HFS as a quasi-commercial operation was
deemed appropriate to rationalize the use of equipment based on full cost
recovery for its use. Specialized training for HFS' and MOC(W)'s personnel
was provided for under the training component.
7.    Institutional Development envisaged a take-over by HFS, of both the
MOC(W)-owned equipment and vehicle fleet, and the Directorate of Electrical
and Mechanical Services' (DEMS) responsibility for the fleet's maintenance,
rehabilitation and periodic replacement of economically unserviceable units.
HFS's mandate was to operate as an autonomous, quasi-commercial, cost-
effective equipment rental company which would ensure that equipment would be
available to MOC(W), when required, for a fee that should defray the cost of
equipment amortization, its routine and periodic maintenance, and the HFS'
operating expenses. This approach to management of MOC(W)'s equipment had
already been accepted by the Government and included in the Fourth Highway
Project (LN1740-JM) but was not implemented because of the lack of seed
capital funds and postponing the hiring of consultants.
8.    The Training component was designed to strengthen MOC(W)'s Training
Unit and to improve the technical and administrative skills of some 772 road
and equipment maintenance personnel.   The component  included  (i)  the
upgrading of MOC(W)'s physical training facilities; (ii) overseas training
for technical and administrative staff; (iii) acquisition and utilization of
training equipment and vehicles for use in connection with the training
activities, and (iv) provision for 48 man-months of technical assistance by
foreign consultants and 96 man-months of local instructors to strengthen the
Ministry's operational capabilities in the management of its annual road
maintenance programs.
9.    Innovative AsDects. The project provided for the implementation of an
innovative approach to equipment management through the HFS whose design was
presented in a report prepared by consultants as long ago as December 1974.
The report recommended that both the MOC(W)'s equipment and vehicle fleet and
DEMS' responsibility for the maintenance of the equipment be transferred to
the HFS, which should be physically and financially independent of MOC(W),
and operate as a quasi-private corporation. HFS was to receive a mandate
from the Government to finance its entire operations with the proceeds from



- 4 -
rental fees, which HPS would assess in line with prevailing competitive
market prices and charge for the use of the fleet.
10.    Proiect Preparation. The road maintenance component was based on the
study completed under the Fourth Highway Project by consultants whose
findings were presented in the report entitled "Road Improvement and
Maintenance Study, Stage III, October 1982". The findings were based on a
road condition survey carried out by the consultants, covering about 3000
miles of the total road mileage maintained by the Directorate of Maintenance
(DM). Based on the results of the survey, the consultants had selected for
every road section a suitable level of maintenance (routine, periodic, or
rehabilitation), determined its cost and prepared a program of works
according to the road's ERR ranking. The cost estimates were prepared at the
level of preliminary engineering.
11.   The surveys were rapid due to time constraints dictated by the project
preparation schedule.  Two consulting engineers carrying out the surveys
covered up to 70 miles per day, assisted by works overseers and regional road
superintendents, some of whom were newly appointed and not fully familiar
with the roads under their responsibility. The condition of the roads was
estimated based on the consultants' visual observations of the general damage
to the roads, drainage deficiencies and an assessment, by subjective
judgement, of the existing pavements' surface roughness. A vehicle-mounted
bump integrator was used to measure surface roughness on a very limited
number of test sections, in an attempt to better correlate the engineers'
visual observations with generally accepted standards for roughness.
Preparation of the Hire Funding Scheme component was minimal given that the
component was identical with that included under the fourth highway project.
12.   The training component was designed to address the perceived needs of
the Ministry to carry out future annual maintenance programs.
13.   In retrospect, the scope of the project was overly optimistic, given
MOC(W)'s financial, technical and administrative constraints that were
evident before the project's appraisal, and have been deteriorating since.
These constraints were amply documented in the Bank's Project Completion
Reports and their tenor should have prompted the Bank to analyze a number of
issues before finalizing the scope of the Fifth highway project:
(i)   First,  it  should  have  made  an  in-depth  analysis  of  the
Government's ability to mobilize the necessary counterpart
funding for the project, and to determine MOC(W)'s technical and
administrative capacity to implement the project on schedule,
taking  into  account  the Ministry's  overall  comitm-nts  to
implement, concurrently with the Project, similar programs
financed by the Government and/or other development lending
agencies.
(ii) Second, it should have tested the Government's level of
commitment to establish the Hire Funding Scheme, given MOC(W)'s
weak past support during the implementation of the HFS program
under the Fourth Highway Project, and the fact that the
Government was expressly considering alternatives to the re-
establishment of the HFS as a statutory corporation, in line with



the Government's policy of avoiding the proliferation of such
corporations.
(iii) Third, it should have reviewed the practicality of executing by
force account as much as 70 percent of the project's preparatory
works, given MOC(W)'s limited organizational and technical
capacity. The completion of these works was essential before the
pavement overlay and resealing works to be executed by
contractors could be begun.
(iv) Forth, it should have analyzed the implicit impact on the
availability of counterpart financing that would be caused by the
implementation of the IMP's economic restructuring program
introduced in 1982, on the eve of this project.  The program
focussed on the curtailment of the Government's expenses, whose
effect ought to have been factored into the design of the final
scope of the project.
14.   Roles and responsibilities.   The roles and responsibilities were
clearly defined during project preparation, stated in the SAR, and agreed to
by all parties concerned, including the MOC(W), its Directorate of
Maintenance, DEMS, the Personnel Department and the Training Unit.
E.    Proiect Imolementation
15. The Loan Agreement was signed on June 31, 1983, and the project became
efofctive six months later, on January 31, 1984. The Project Completion Date
was set as August 31, 1986; the Closing Date of June 30, 1987, was first
extended to June 30, 1988, and then to June 30, 1989. The road maintenance
works were completed by the end of 1989, and the Loan was fully disbursed in
January 1990. The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal at
US$47 million, of which US$23.5 million was foreign exchange cost. The Bank
loan was to finance US$15 million of the foreign exchange cost, while the
Government would finance the local component of project cost (US$23.5 million
equivalent), as well as any part of the foreign exchange component for which
additional external financing could not be obtained (Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement).   In April, 1984, the Government received from the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) a loan for US$ 9.0 million, comprising US$7.2 million
in "hard funds" and US$1.8 million in "soft funds", for financing of the
foreign cost component not covered by the Bank loan.
16.   Variances in the Implementation.  From its beginning the project was
classified as a "problem project" and its implementation was substantially at
variance with the plan agreed at appraisal. In retrospect, it is clear that
the scheduled completion date was unrealistic. The project took about seven
years to complete 70Z of the 520 miles of periodic maintenance agreed at
appraisal; the Hire Funding Scheme, the axle load control, road safety, and
training programs were never implemented. The Loan was fully disbursed in
January 1990, with its largest share having been spent on maintenance works
and procurement of road equipment and vehicles.
17.   After appraisal, the economic situation in Jamaica changed drastically
due to implementation by the Government of an economic restructuring package
recommended by the IMP, that required devaluation of the Jamaican currency to



deal with the high inflation being experienced. The combined effect of these
measures necessitated an immediate cut-back in Government spending and
reduced the project's budget allocations for FY83/84 and FY84/85, the first
two  years  of  the  project.    The  reduced  funding  compromised  timely
commencement of the preparatory road works, thereby making it impossible also
to start the pavement overlays and resealing programs.
18.   The MOC(W) soon perceived that it could not provide the agreed level of
financing to complete the project by June 31, 1986, the intended completion
date, and in August 1984, re-examined the project's implementation schedule
in light of the Government's budgetary projections.  As a result, MOC(W)
proposed a revised program which retained the project's physical objectives
of carrying out periodic maintenance on 520 miles of roads, but increasing
the percentage of reseals and scaling down overlays to reduce the cost of the
works. The Government requested the Bank to approve the revised program and
a two-year project extension. The Bank accepted the proposal on condition
that the Government would accelerate the project to ensure its completion by
March 1988. In June 1987, the Bank's Loan Agreement, Schedule I, category
(1) works was amended to increase Bank financing from 46 to 70 percent to
help the Government speed up progress, and the Closing Date was extended to
June 30, 1988. In this context, GOJ agreed with CDB, in December 1986, to
modify the CDB's loan by canceling US$7.0 million of the US$7.2 million "hard
funds" portion, with the understanding that CDB would provide, at a later
date, additional soft-funds financing of US$3.2 million that was considered
needed to complete the project. In April 1987, it was agreed that CDB would
defer its further disbursements, which at the time totalled US$1.6 million,
until June 1988, when the Bank's loan was expected to be fully disbursed. In
May 1988, it became evident that the Bank's loan would not be fully disbursed
until June 1989. Under the circumstances, CDB authorized the disbursement,
after June 1989, of the remaining US$0.4 million, and in lieu of replenishing
the on-going loan, to provide funds for the completion of this project under
a new loan, which was appraised by CDB in March 1989.
19.   Actions Affectina Implementation. Project implementation was affected
by several problems: the delay in declaring the project effective; delayed
procurement of technical assistance consultants and delays in hiring local
counterpart staff needed to strengthen MOC(W)'s project management
capabilities; delayed procurement to purchase new equipment and vehicles;
poor maintenance of MOC(W)'s existing equipment; and the resulting low
availability (50% or less) of MOC(W)'s equipment, which was badly needed for
the force account works. The low availability of equipment continued to be
a problem even after the newly purchased equipment was added to the fleet.
The critical shortage of counterpart financing for the maintenance works was
aggravated by erratic releases of funds; and by the escalation of prices for
asphaltic and other construction materials (in 1984, the cost of overlays and
resealing  increased  53%  and  42%  respectively  and  that  of  preventive
maintenance operations by 59%). The project's budgets were scaled down and
the project implementation in fact continued through the end of 1989, by
which time MOC(W) had completed about 70 percent of the targeted maintenance
works, while the implementation of the institutional development and the
training components had made no material progress.
20.    The re-establishment of the Hire Funding Scheme to manage MOC(C)'s
equipment fleet constituted a key element of the project, yet MOC(W)
appointed people to the Interim Equipment Management Board (IEMB), who had



- 7 -
only limited experience in the management of a private equipment rental
corporation. Upon its appointment in 1985, the Board agreed to prepare an
operational action plan for the HFS, but the plan still was not ready in
1988. HFS could not be organized or operate without the support of technical
assistance consultants who were also expected to provide on-the-job training
for yet-to-be-hired local counterpart personnel. When competitive proposals
were invited, the Board failed to reach a decision within the validity of the
proposals and so the HFS was left without any foreign technical assistance.
As further attempts to implement the Hire Funding Scheme became
impracticable, MOC(W) proposed that another study be made to determine the
viability of privatizing the Hire Funding Scheme.   The Bank approved the
Government's request without a formal amendment to the Loan Agreement.
21.    The Government was two years late in complying with the Loan's
covenants which required that HFS' Board be appointed and a manager nominated
for the Hire Funding Scheme before procuring the Bank-financed equipment.
This in turn delayed the delivery of the equipment that was urgently needed
for the MOC(W) force account works which had to be completed before the
periodic maintenance overlay and resealing programs could begin. Procurement
of the equipment was finalized only during the period January-March 1988
(nearly two years beyond the original completion date target), and the delay
proved costly to the project.
22.   Institutional weaknesses revealed in the project audit reports included
a number of accounting and procurement irregularities, as well as
deficiencies in the quality of the executed works.   The FY86/87 Audit
mentioned payments made against unauthorized vouchers; and payments for small
contracts (up to J$150,000) which did not indicate the precise location at
which works were to be executed, making verification of the works by the
auditors difficult.   Office Furniture and Equipment Inventory was  not
properly structured and omitted acquisitions during the year valued at
approximately  J$146,403.      Many  inventoried  items  had  no  positive
identification marks as to ownership and location.  The Audit for FY87/88
states that some 34 portable radios costing J$195,840 were not taken on
inventory at DEMS and the stock of tubes and tires for the project was not
stored separately from those belonging to other projects. Variation orders
for works contracts ranging from approximately J$0.5 to J$6 million for
overlay works were issued without reference to the Government Contract Award
Committee and/or the Cabinet.   In the auditors' opinion these variations
contravened the Government's contract award policy. In some cases the change
orders substantially exceeded the provisions of the Loan Agreement, Schedule
4-C-3, Review of Procurement Decisions, which limited to 10 percent any
increases of contract costs (without Bank approval). The audit of financial
transactions in FY88/89 disclosed instances of payment vouchers without
supporting documents and vouchers which bore no evidence of authorization.
23.   The auditors also visited project works sites to verify the projects
for which expenses were made with the project's funds.  The 1984/85 audit
report mentions that an inspection by the auditors of five roads totalling
20.3 miles revealed problems of faulty side drains, aggregate stripping and
other deficiencies, indicating that the quality of the works was wanting.
The FY86/87 audit report mentions faulty preparatory works by the Public
Works Department in three parishes and poorly constructed drainage that
contributed to pavement surface failures.  The FY87/88 report states that
road inspection in four rural parishes revealed instances of bleeding,



- 8 -
stripping of aggregate, faulty transverse joints, scouring, ravelling and
depressions in the pavement's surface. And the FY88/89 report mentioned that
site inspections of selected overlay works showed, in some instances, poorly
constructed center joints and pavement surface depressions.
24.   Possible avoidance of variances.  Whether the variances of the agreed
program could have been avoided, is a moot point.  At the close of the
project the maintenance component was 30 percent short of its physical
target. The average per mile cost of the works was higher than estimated at
appraisal. A better financial planning at appraisal and Bank financing of a
larger share of the works component (the original 46Z was not realistic)
might have helped to off-set, to some extent, both the shortage of local
funds and the effect of price escalation. With regards to the delays in the
execution of the preparatory works by force account, it would have been
better to package the preparatory works with the overlay and resealing works
to have the works executed by private contractors. Variance in the execution
of the maintenance works could possibly have been prevented had the Bank
financed, from the beginning, 70% of the cost of the works instead of 46X as
was decided at appraisal.  The problem was recognized by the Bank during
project implementation and corrected by the amendment of June 1987, which
increased Bank reimbursements to 70X, making possible full disbursement of
the Loan by January 1990.  An analysis of the IMP economic restructuring
program might have avoided the repetition of the problems associated with the
implementation delays experienced on past projects, which led the borrower to
pay commitment fees on the large undisbursed balance over nearly seven years.
25.   The failure to re-establish the Hire Funding Scheme and to carry out
the personnel training component was detrimental to the implementation of the
road maintenance program, whose success depended on an adequate and timely
provision of equipment for force account works and well trained personnel to
monitor the works' progress. This problem might have been avoided, had the
Bank been firm in persuading MOC(W) that compliance with the pertinent
clauses of the Loan Agreement was essential to proceeding with the project.
The Bank should have kept pressure on MOC(W) to give higher priority to
institutional improvements than to maintenance works. However, a sustained
dialogue was difficult due to a high turnover of Bank staff assigned to
supervise the project during its implementation.
F.    Proiect Results
26.   Overall, the project results were not very satisfactory.  There were
some positive achievements, yet some of its main objectives were not
realized. Under the Road Maintenance Program, the periodic road maintenance
works completed totalled 368 miles, or 71% of the 520 miles agreed at
appraisal.  This included 90 miles of overlays and 278 miles of ressals,
rather than 160 and 360 miles respectively, agreed at appraisal. Except for
the comments made by the auditors (para.23), the quality of the works was
reported to be generally acceptable; the cost of completion was higher than
appraisal  estimates.   Procurement of equipment  and vehicles  for road
maintenance was also completed. The Road Planning Unit (RPU), assisted by
consultants, developed the capability to prepare, in-house, all new projects
for appraisal by lending agencies, without any external technical assistance
other than two expatriates working in line positions in the unit. The RPU
personnel learned to apply a method of evaluation for the selection of feeder



road improvements employing a producer surplus approach which maximized the
work that could be done by technicians, and to use the simplified evaluation
method for ranking candidate roads for the Road Improvement projects based on
vehicle operating cost savings and the accurate measurement of traffic and
surface roughness.
27.   The objectives not accomplished were the re-establishment of the Hire
Funding Scheme which was of fundamental importance to ensure that MOC(W) has
the necessary equipment for the work at hand; and the essential training
program for some 1700 MOC(W) personnel, of which about 772 were to receive
training, including senior staff, engineers, accountants, superintendents,
works  overseers,  drivers,  equipment operators and mechanics.   MOC(W)'s
failure to implement the training component will further diminish its
capacity to have well qualified staff to plan, program, schedule, contract,
and monitor the quality of the works to be executed.
G.   Project Sustainabilitv
28.   The sustainability of the road maintenance project will depend on the
Government's ability to carry out routine and periodic maintenance.  This
will require strong institutional support to plan, program and schedule
maintenance activities and timely availability of funds to carry out the
necessary works. About 80 miles of heavily trafficked roads which were to
receive overlays, were resealed instead, for reasons of economy. These roads
may need timely intervention to ensure the sustainability of benefits from
the works done under the project. Sustainability of the benefits from the
acquisition of new equipment and vehicles will depend on the quality of their
maintenance. To date, DEMS' maintenance practices have been wanting, and the
failure to make functional the Hire Fund Scheme may put this equipment in
jeopardy.   The achievements made with the Road Planning Unit were not
sustained. When the Head of the Unit left in 1989, there was no replacement
groomed to take his place, and with subsequent loss of morale and low pay
scales offered by MOC(W), there was an exodus of the experienced staff.
H.    Bank Performance and Lessons Learned
29.   Preparation and Appraisal.  The definition of the project's scope and
its implementation schedule were predicated on the assumption that the
required funds would be available for the project in a timely manner. The
validity of this assumption was not tested at appraisal and the Bank's
assessment of the project's risks was flawed. The Bank underestimated the
financial complexity of the Project and was apparently oblivious to the fact
that scarce Government funds were being allocated among numerous donor-
sponsored projects, often with inadequate regard for economic and technical
priorities. The result was that the Government was not in the position to
fulfill its obligations to meet the budgetary targets for project
implementation.   Past experience clearly underscored MOC(W)1s technical,
administrative and financial limitations, which required that the scope of
the project be carefully crafted. Also, the impact of the IMF program on the
Government's finances and on the Highway Maintenance Project cQu1ld have been
anticipated during appraisal and factored into the project to adjust the
scope of work accordingly.  Since MOC(W) had failed to implement the Hire
Fund Scheme under the previous project, it would have been prudent to test



- 10 -
MOCIW)'s commitment to proceed with both the implementation of the Scheme and
the personnel training programs.
30.   Supervision.  The supervision -of the project absorbed about 49 staff
weeks during the implementation period mid-1983 to mid-1990 period.  About
eleven missions were made to Jamaica over the seven years. From its very
beginning the project was characterized as a problem project and it had a
performance rating of "3" --denoting major problems-- for more than four
years; and, then, a rating of "2" --denoting moderate problems-- for about
three years.   The Bank missions assisted MOC(W) in rescheduling project
implementation in line with the available budgets to accelerate progress.
Most of these efforts were frustrated by untimely releases of the funds by
the Ministry of Finance.   A review of the project files, including Bank
mission reports, suggests that discussions with MOC(W) focussed mainly on the
problem of slow project implementation and concerns about the low rate of
disbursements of the Loan.   There was hardly a reference in the reports
regarding the quality of the works executed under the project.  As already
noted (para. 23), comments on the works quality were found in the audit
reports prepared by the office of the Auditor General of Jamaica, whose
personnel visited various sites where the project's works had been completed.
The auditors reported instances of pavement distress and other deficiencies
that were observed on several project works sites. They also informed that
the lapses found in the project's accounts during the audits were duly
reported to MOC(W) and corrected in a timely way.
31.   Lessons Learned.   Bank appraisal missions should be familiar with
Bank's experience gained during the implementation of previous projects to
avoid repetition of past mistakes and to profit from past successes.  The
problems which affected the implementation of the Highway Maintenance Project
were almost identical to those which plagued implementation of the previous
four road projects, namely: budgetary shortfalls; variances in the scope of
the projects; extensions of the time for the projects' completion; lack of
final engineering and poor cost estimates and the resulting cost over-runs;
insufficient financial, technical and administrative capacity of the project
executing agency; and lack of support for institutional improvements.  The
long  recognized  need  to  reorganize  the  MOC(W)  still  exists.    The
reorganization of the MOC(W) and improved coordination among external donors,
two main issues, are being addressed under the Bank's follow-on project.
32.   The on-going follow-on Road Infrastructure Planning and Maintenance
Project provides for the strengthening of MOC(W)'s operational capabilities
through implementation of institutional changes designed to improve the cost-
effectiveness of MOC(W)'s investments in roads.   The salient features of
these changes include personnel training, road investment studies,
concentration of all road maintenance activities within the Directorate of
Maintenance; the creation of an Equipment Management Division to operate
MOC(W)-owned equipment and vehicle fleet under a system agreed to with the
Bank during the preparation of the project; and the creation of the
Directorate of Planning and Budgeting (DPB) which would be solely responsible
for developing and updating a rolling multi-year road investment program that
was established under that project to enhance coordination of all the road
programs funded in the country by various multilateral foreign agencies and
GOJ. The program is to be monitored annually, at meetings of all internal
and external agencies which are financially active in the sector.



- 11 -
33.   This project also underscored thc importance of compliance with the
Loan covenants, which constitute an integral part of Bank projects' design.
The re-establishment of the Hire Funding Scheme was impaired and the expected
economic benefits vitiated due to the non-compliance with the Loan covenant
to contract technical assistance services indispensable to organize and
operate the Scheme. A firmer Bank posture in the framework of a constructive
dialogue to persuade the client that Bank considers compliance important,
might have convinced MOC(W) to accord priority status to the establishment of
the Hire Funding Scheme and the implementation of the training component.
Furthermore, even though the project was conceptually correct, the financing
for its implementation, which provided loan funds for the technical
assistance services but depended on the provision of seed capital for other
HFS operational expenses, proved unsatisfactory given the Government's
financial constraints. This experience has been taken into account in the
formulation of the follow-on project: it comprises technical assistance to
help set up and implement a new equipment management system, rationalize the
size and composition of MOC(W)'s fleet and assets, and develop contracts for
equipmental rental and lease, in order to facilitate maintenance of that
equipment which it is more cost-effective for MOC(W) to maintain.
I.    Borrower Performance and Lessons Learned
34.   Borrower   Performance.      Borrower  performance   during   project
implementation was not up to expectations. As already noted, the Borrower
did not provide the agreed counterpart funds nor did it comply in a timely
manner,  if at all, with the loan covenants.   The borrower's principal
interest was to carry out the maintenance works, and in fact most of the loan
funds were used for the execution of the road works and the purchase Qf road
equipment.   The implementation of the remaining components was hardly
started.  The other two components of equal importance, the Hire Funding
Scheme, to rationalize the use of HOC(W) road maintenance equipment and its
vehicle fleet, and the training component to strengthen MOC(W) operations,
were not implemented; MOC(W) did not recruit counterpart staff for the
Training Unit and the HFS, nor foreign assistance consultants, in accordance
with the plan presented in the Staff Appraisal Report.
35.   The preparatory works executed by force account were often poorly
coordinated with the follow-on overlay and resealing works.   There were
instances when contractors had to interrupt their works because the
preparatory works had not yet been finished. The quality of the road works
was not uniform.
36.   Implementation  of the Axle Load Control  and the Traffic  Safety
Components has been on hold since 1984, pending legislative action to
introduce the necessary amendments in the Road Traffic Act.
37.   Lessons learned.  The Ministry of Construction manages investments in
roads on a scale which has outgrown its present organization.  MOC(W)'s
performance was hampered by the lack of institutional capacity for the amount
of works under its responsibility. To improve MOC(W)'s responsiveness to the
demand for its technical and administrative support it might be desirable for
the Ministry to consider undergoing a comprehensive institutional review with
the help of experienced external consultants, to better define its future
role in the sector it covers, to review and modernize its internal structure,



- 12 -
proposing a plan of action regarding shortage of qualified personnel, salary
policies, financial controls, budget mechanisms, etc. As already mentioned
above, the development and implementation of a new organizational/management
structure based on effective delivery of services for which the Ministry's
units are both responsible and accountable, is an integral part of the Bank's
follow-on project. This is being carried out in tandem with the introduction
of the Corporate Plan in the Ministry and a new Program Budgeting System that
is required under the Bank-supported Administrative Reform Program (ARP),
which is strongly supported by GOJ's Central Agencies (Ministries of Finance
and Public Service).   The Government has placed highest priority on the
reform of the public administration and it is in this context that the
reorganization of the MOC(W) is now under way under the guidance of the staff
implementing  the ARP.    Furthermore,  MOC(W)  has,  for  the  first  time,
consolidated in a well-focused investment program based on economic
priorities, all the programs supported by the various international lending
agencies active in the sector. The implementation of this program is to be
monitored at annual coordinating meetings of MOC(W) and all participating
lending agencies, which in turn will play a catalytic role in furthering the
institutional and operational changes pursued under the Bank's follow-on
project.
38.   Also, the Ministry should review its role as an entrepreneur of works,
to define the amount of works to be carried out by force account and through
private contracting.   The development of the local construction industry
would be enhanced if all civil works, except for minor emergency works, were
contracted with private contractors, with the Ministry limiting itself to a
supervisory role. In this regard, MOC(W) is now aware of the need and taking
appropriate measures to increase the participation of private contractors in
the delivery of services. MOC(W) considers this necessary, particularly, in
view of the reduction of its personnel foreseen under the on-going reforms.
39.   As long ago as 1978, the Government formulated an Axle Load. Program
which included changes to prior regulations. Implementation of the program
in three phases during 1979-1982, suffered considerable delays because
legislative action related to axle load limits and enforcement of axle load
control measures was approved by the cabinet only at the end of the Fourth
Project,  in 1982, but never enacted by the Parliament.   Several other
elements of the program such as the purchase of additional weigh bridges and
load meters, an increase in patrol strength and the preparation of a road
haulage study, were not implemented. Despite Government assurances that this
program would be implemented under the Highway Maintenance Project, it did
not  materialize.    Implementation  of  components  which  are  politically
sensitive should be backed up with a strong covenant in the Loan Agreement
that the Bank is willing to enforce.
J.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
40.   The Bank-Borrower relationship was appropriate and formal.  It appears
that a sustained dialogue between the Ministry and the Bank was hampered by
the infrequency of Bank staff visits and frequent changes of Bank staff
responsible for the project. A better dialogue might have made it possible
to avoid the major variances noted in the project scope.



- 13 -
K.    Consultint Services
41.    Of the four elements of technical assistance included in the project -
(1) Road Planning Unit (RPU); (2) Maintenance Directorate; (3) Hire Fund
Scheme; and (4) the Training Program - the last two never took place.
42.   The technical assistance to the Directorate of Maintenance was in
effect throughout the duration of the project, and assistance to the Road
Planning Unit was given for just over three years. The work of the RPU was
mainly associated with the identification and preparation of the works
programs of the Ministry and the groundwork for the setting up of a National
Roads Authority.  The technical assistance to the Maintenance Directorate
included project coordination linked to the resealing and overlay contracts,
training, hire funding scheme, reporting, institutional aspects of
performance budgeting, reduction in force account, reorganization of the DM,
and preparation of procurement manuals and documents for the procurement of
road equipment.
43.    A prerequisite to the appointment of the technical assistance to the
Hire Funding Scheme was the setting up of an Interim Board headed by a
chairman from the private sector (para. 20).  The Board was formed rather
late in 1985 and was not very active and never reached a decision on the
choice of technical assistance consultants who submitted proposals, with the
result that the HFS had no expert assistance. Training terms of reference
were drawn up, short lists made and competitive proposals called for, but the
winning firm was never appointed, due mainly to shortages of counterpart
funds and of MOC(W) training staff.
44.   The consultants retained for the key positions in the newly established
Road Planning Unit assisted MOC(W) in developing a systematic approach to
planning road investments according to technical and economic criteria (para.
26), and to help coordinate the various programs carried out by the Ministry,
to prevent overlapping and duplication of effort.   The unit was  also
responsible for formulating the yearly periodic maintenance programs,
including the programming and scheduling of maintenance activities, location
of suitable gravel for pavement overlays and resealing programs; and for
supervising the project's road maintenance works.   The consultants also
provided hands-on training for their local counterparts, who eventually took
over the positions of highway planning engineer, transport economist and
systems analyst, as permanent MOC(W) staff.
45.   The presence of consultants was indispensable because the Ministry's
staff was short-handed and required training.   Uncertainties concerning
annual budgetary allocations and erratic release of funds made planning and
the scheduling of the project's activities difficult.
46.   In the absence of comments in the Bank's mission reports on the
consultants' performance, and considering the observations made by the
auditors (para. 28) on the poor quality of some of the works carried out, it
is difficult to assess the effectiveness of the Ministry's personnel and its
consultants in supervising the project maintenance works.



- 14 -
L.    Proiect Documentation and Data
47.   Data needed for the preparation of the PCR were generally available in
Bank files, including the project preparation files, Bank supervision
reports, aide memoires, and the quarterly reports, all of which were helpful.
The consultants who assisted MOC(W) and DM during project implementation
reported having prepared a pavement roughness inventory after the works were
completed, and collected traffic data.   These data, which may have been
suitable to make an ex-post evaluation of the Economic Rate of Return and the
Net Present Value for specific sections of the project, is not available.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPETIVE
A.    Comments on Part I of the Project ComDletion Report
1.    The analysis in general was considered fair and reasonably accurate,
however a few of the findings need some clarification and to be brought in
proper perspective.
2.    The delay in the Bank declaring the Project effectiveness was mainly
due to certain preconditions not being met by the borrower, which were
outside the direct control of Ministry of Construction (Works), the executing
agency.
3.    The degree to which MOC(W)'s performance was hampered by the lack of
technical and administrative capacity was overstated. While difficulty was
experienced in retaining and attracting suitable qualified and experienced
local staff over the duration of the Project, it is safe to say that the
project implementation progress was never bogged down at any time as a direct
result of inadequate technical and administrative staff.
4.    The cost estimates prepared at appraisal stage were predicated on the
basis of historical data collected from previous projects of similar nature.
As it turned out, such cost overruns as experienced were attributable to:
a.    Rapid deterioration of many road sections that occurred between
the time of initial surveys and the time when the works were
actually implemented, hence the unavoidable increase of the
physical scope.
b.    Significant price movements in the price of basic materials and
increase in rates of hireage of equipment and labor.
c.    Devaluations of the Jamaican dollar over the Project's life
versus the US dollar.
5.    The Project's preparatory works carried out through the MOC(W)'s "force
account" mechanism needs some clarification.  All drainage improvement and
lateral support works are given out on a petty contract basis and supervised
by the local Parish/Division office or by Project technical staff if they are
under-utilized at the time the works are being carried out.
6.    The work activities which the Ministry mainly involves itself in are
pavement repairs and reconstruction.   In carrying out these activities,
MOC(W) oftentimes hires equipment from private contractors/owners, when its
own equipment fleet are not available; materials are procured directly from
local suppliers and the labor force utilized is a combination of unskilled
laborers employed from the respective locations of the works, along with a
core of skilled asphalt laborers that have been working with the Ministry for
a number of years.



- 16 -
7.    It has been our experience that many of the local contractors who are
prequalified to carry out reseal and overlay works, are not very interested
in taking on the preparatory works due to the tedious and time-consuming
activities involved in executing these works.   Those contractors who are
prepared to undertake this type of works invariably submit high unit rates to
try and hedge against the uncertainty of soil conditions frequently
encountered and other factors outside of their control.
8.    Despite the problems experienced in trying to set up a properly
functioning Hire Funding Scheme to manage MOC(W)'s equipment fleet, the low
availability of equipment could have been eased if approval was obtained
earlier from Cabinet in increasing the hireage rates being offered by
Government to private owners, which rates for too long were unrealistic
compared to the going rates. In certain instances, this would have helped in
speeding up the progress of the works.
9.    It is our considered opinion that the general quality of the works
executed under the Project was above average and in some cases quite good.
There can be no denying that there were instances where the quality of the
works reflected some deficiencies as cited in some of the Auditor General's
reports. However, these occurrences were localized and should not be taken
as widespread. These deficiencies were remedied as and when they occurred or
when brought to our attention.
10.   In respect of the issuing of large Variation Orders under the overlay
contracts, these were done with the knowledge of and a "no objection" from
the Bank together with full support of the highest political leadership at
the time. It was the understanding that the township roads were in dire need
of rehabilitation and this route was chosen in order to be able to implement
the works quickly and to be in a position to fully utilize the loan proceeds
by the extended Project loan closing date of June 30, 1989. The issuing of
such large variations should be regarded as a special circumstance and is not
to be taken as the norm in our contract procedure or administration.
11.   Finally, it would have been useful if the Bank had the opportunity to
pursue the response of the executing agency to the various audit observations
raised in the reference Audit Reports. It is our opinion that some of the
noted deficiencies were slightly exaggerated and the deficiencies identified
were rectified with dispatch.
B.    Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
12.   The Bank played a key role  in assisting with  the planning and
development of the Project. We concur with the observation made by the Bank
that during Appraisal a larger share of the works component should have been
funded by the Bank.
C.    Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
13.   The objective of the Project was solid and consistent with overall
Government's policy and strategy for road development.   The following,
however, must be noted:



- 17 -
a.    there seems to be a need in future projects to train more local
staff thereby reducing the input from technical assistance;
b.    steps should now be taken to improve the conditions of employment
in order to increase the technical expertise of current staff and
also attract and retain additional staff;
c.    the  provision  of matching  funds  to projects  needs  to be
regularized to ensure smooth and timely implementation;
d.    we concur with the PCR that the effects of devaluation and
adverse economic climate which prevailed at that time did impact
adversely on the Borrower's ability to carry out the work as
scheduled.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2293-JM)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Prij  Name'      - -X00                       '-                  '                         j 'om'ents
Jamaica First Highway    Preparation of final engineering and road  April 1965    Completed   US$5.5 million. Cost
Project Ln. 408-JM     upgrading and construction                              March 1973.    overruns of 84% due to
Fully          underestimation at
disbursed.     appraisal and escalation of
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ nright-of-w ay    costs
Second Highway         Reduction of the backlog of deferred      May 1973      Completed in    US$9.3 million. Time
Project, Ln. 899-JM    maintenance; and, technical assistance for              FY 1980.       overrns due to slow work
institutional development to improve                   Fully           progres by MOC(W)
maintenance planning.                                  disbured.       force acunt organization.
Phyicl works were
reduced. Implementation
of institutional components
not completed.
Third Highway Project    Development of national transport capability.   June 1974    Completed in    US$13.5 million. Limited
Ln. 1032-JM            Construction of arterial roads; and,                    FY 1982.       progress achieved in
development of national transportation                 Fully           transport planning and in
planning.                                              disbursed.      developing the domestic
construction industry.
Poor institutional
performance.
Fourth Highway Project  Road maintenance and procurement of      June 1979    Completed       US$16.0 million. Severe
Ln. 1740-JM            equipment, Re-etablishment of Hire Funding              program in     finanal costrints;
Scheme to rationalize the use of MOC(W)                1984. Loan      project was revised in 1980
equip                                                  was 98%         to reduce project-financed
disbursed.     periodic maintenance
levels, and to adjust
equipment purchases.
Kingston Urban         Traffic management and improved of three  March 1984   On-going        US$16 million. Remaining
Transport Project      main aoridors and several intersections;                               loan funds (approximately
La. 2389-JM            support for the road maintenance program in                            US$4.5 million) are being
the Kingpton Metropolitan Region (KMR);                                reallocated to Technical
and improvement of management of the KMR                               Assstance to support
urban transport system.                                                structural reforms in the
transport ector and assist
with preparation of a
proposed Trnsport Sector
Reform Project.
Road Infastructure     Reorganization of MOC(W), and development  December    On-going        US$35 million.
Planning and           of a mult-year infrastructure investment  1990                         Implementation of all of
Maintenance Project    prgram and mechanism  to coordinate                                    the components is in
La. 3275-JM            external funding programs esecution of                                 progres
selected civil works; measures to improve
management of MOC(W)s equipment fleet;
and, development of a comprehensive road
L________  safety progranm.                                                                   _
-   - ----- --- --



- 19 -
2. Proiect Timetable
F .................... . . . . ...... . . . ........................... S~~~~~........
....... .......j                             Re ia~                  Actual.,
Identification                         _                           _              February 1982
Preparation Mission                    _                           _                  July, 1982
Appraisal Mission             __November, 1982
Loan Negotiations                           _                      _                 April, 1983
Board Approval                                              _                      May 20, 1983
Loan Signature                _                               - ________ _June 17, 1983
Loan Effectiveness               June 30, 1983    __January 31, 1984
Project Completion            August 31, 1986          June 30, 1988          December 31, 1989
Loan Closing                     June 30, 1987         June 30, 1988'              June 30, 1989
A subsequent extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1989 was approved by Bank without a formal amendment
to the Loan Agreement.
3. Loan Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ millions)
84         85         86:::789                                       90
Appraisal           4.1        9.5        12.5       15.0        15.0        15.0        15.0
Actual              0.6        1.4         2.6        3.6        8.4         12.6        15.0
Actual as X
of Estimates         14         14         20          24         56          84         100
Date  of  Final  Disbursement:  March  16,  1990.    The  deadline  for  disbursements  was
informally extended to almost seven months after Loan Closing Date.   This practice is
no longer acceptable now.



- 20 -
4. Proiect ImDlementation
AnDraisal Estim  te                               ctual
Periodic Road        Carry out maintenance work, under    Completed 90 miles of overlay and 278
Maintenance          the 1983-86 Road Maintenance            miles of pav emnt reseal*, a total of
progrm, f4nanced jointly by             368 miles vhich were financed solely
IDB|CDB, included preparatory           by IBRD. The rema ining 152 siles would
works (520 miles), pavement             be completed vith CDB financing.
overlays (160 miles) and resealing
(360 miles)
JA DOLIARS                            US DOLLARS
TYPE          lUE              Toal Cod           Coe/Mi1             TOI Cost           Cog/iSs
(is MiSgo)        (IS T_InAD)        (in M)oe)          (In Tho_umi)
A-p | Ac%W    A-W           Acta    App_|_ Ao_I   App J    Aca             A-kTa   AcWl
Ovwhys     160       90      22.52    48.02   142.625   542.244    12.77     8.373    79.8125   93.033
Rimbsi     360      278      15.42    22.353    42.U33    80.406   3.62     4.066     23.94    14.626
Pwt.mIoq     520      36      13.55    54.322    35.673    147.614    10.37   10.368    19.94    28.174
worksIIII
Encu  of    p ne   4$131 USl
4
Purchae of road maintenance               Appraisal Estimate              Actual (IBRD Financinx)
epuipment                                        Unit.                               Units
-Back hoe                                          5                                   5
-Dump trucks                                      40                                  10
-Utility vehicles (four-                          22                                   -
wheel drive)
-Pickups                                          25                                  26
-Pede. Vibrating                                  25                                   5
rollers
-Vibrating Plate                                  20
Compactors
-Tailgate Chipping                                 10
Spreaders
-Bitumen Emulsion                                 25                                  15
Sprayers
Total Cost of Equipment and                 J$4.96 million                      J$5.91 million
Spare Parts:                             (US$2.8 million *q)                 (US$0.95 million eq)
Re-establishent of the Hire        To manage HOC(W) road               Not Initiated
Funding Schems                     maintenance equipmnt, based
on cost recovery for the
equipmnt's use
Personnel Training Progrm:         To provide training for some        Not Initiated
772 MOC(W) Personnel for
Senior Staff and accountants,
engineers drivers, equipment
operators, store keeper
mchanice, etc.



- 21 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financina
A. Prolect Costs
(in US$ million)
_....                                            ..   ..f   ..l .:   ....    ................     ..    ... ,.....y' '' q '' '"   '
Localo    . zcban. .ota1 Oocal ;oa..
',.,:'-'''"C '""""e       ;    '      0        "U~        ''~              'N               't~A    "u
1. Civril           17.2        14.6        31.8        67.7      7.6        2.0        13.2        22.8       87.2
Worko
-Preparatory         5.3         5.1        10.4        22.1      4.0        0.9         S.4        10.3       39.4
Work.
-Recealing           4.6         4.0         8.6        18.3       1.2       0.8         2.1        4.1        15.7
Workao
-Overlcy             7.3         5.5        12.8        27.2      2.4        0.3        5.7         8.4        32.1
Work.
2. KouimInent        0.4         2 4         28         6.0       0.4         -          0          L13    
3. Tochnlncal        1,0.    0               4.0        8.5        1L 1       -0                    2.0's      1 7
-Maintenance         0.3         1.4         1.7        3.6       0.9         _          0 8         1.8       6 9
Directorate
and Plannin-
Unit
-Hire Funting        0.2         0.8         1.0        2.1       0.05        -           -         0.05       0.2
Scheo
-Training            0.5         0.8         1.3        2.8       0.14        -           -         0.14       0.5
Programa
4.  Price            4.9          85 84                 17.9 9               0              
Continnencie a
5. Bauk Fee           -         0.04        0. 04       0 1        _                                            i04
B. Prolect Pinaancnn
Program ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ zamt
47!. Price          4. etor5   *            8.4        17.9lplmuaio  rm45  o12
3.Contuitaetciesetanig~3.
4. Bank  Fe                       .40.4.1004                                                        00           -
[' U l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                         t_....   l. . ....   ~l.f'.1., 1. , .  '.....   ... . . . .   ........  ...   ,,,'r*.  | l.................., .1.,  .......... ....     .
S. Cnallocatedt 7coc E trc            1         P3,9i2.     Fina
Co-Vinancing lntitutione              S,500.0          -           2,000.0     (*5  Sh CD0 loa n for 0949.0
(Cari bb-n Dvelopmet lank)                                                     million we approe d in 4ril
Loar Po. 5SISf-OK-J                                                            1954 anid beaC  etffective in
October 19J4.   At  .......t c
requet it mac reduced to 0952.0
fully diebfureedby *Jamar 1ou90.
Other External Source                   N14           NA             N
Dmetic                                2l,500.0         _          9,120.0
... ... .......~lS
1/ Baoe Costa- October 1982 price..
T/ Incilueo. US$0 3 millon for  dinterent during conttruction
3/ Figure. may  not add up to the total due to rounding.



- 22 -
6. Prolect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators                 AppraisedlaEtmite -Estiaated @ Closing Date.
ti) Road Maintenance   Preservation of the road network         Road users are benefitting in financial
Program                 and improvement through periodic        terms and comfort from improved surface
maintenance of the pavement suface   conditions in the 368 miles of roads
roughness to reduce vehicle            which received periodic maintenance
operating costs
(ii) Purchase of        To assist MOC(W) to improve their    The purchase of new equipment did not
equipment for road      performance in carrying out road        alleviate MOC(W) work scheduling
maintenance by          maintenance by force account,           problems. MOC(W)-DEMS had no capacity to
MOC(W)                                                          service the existing equipment and the
new units purchased under the project
failed to improve the availability of
MOC(W) fleet.
(iii) Technical         To strengthen MOC(W) institutional   1. A three-year Technical Assistance to
Assistance and          capacity for road maintenance           the Road Planning Unit was successful in
Training                planning, programming, scheduling    developing systematic approach to
and the monitoring of road             planning road investments according to
maintenance activities,                technical and economic criteria.
Achievements made were not sustained.
2. Technical Assistance to the
Maintenance Department was necessary
because the Ministry's staff was short-
handed and required training during the
implementation of the project.
Re-establishment of    To rationalize the use of MOC(W)'s   The scheme was not implemented because
the aire Funding        equipment fleet based on cost-          MOC(W) did not retain the services of
Scheme                  recovery for its use.                   consultants to organize and operate the
Hire Funding Scheme.
The Planning and        To strengthen MOC(W)'s Training         This component was not implemented
implementation of       Unit and to improve the skills of    because MOC(W) did not contract the
the Training Program   road and equipment maintenance,          necessary technical assistance services.
personnel and accounting and
auditing staff.
B. Economic Impact
The appraisal ERR was derived from costs and benefits stream over a 15-year period and a sensitivity
analysis was carried out by consultants to test the project's viability allowing for a +- 20 percent
variation of vehicle operating costs; a 3 percent variatlion in the annual traffic growth and a 15 percent
variation in the cost of the required works. Since appraisal, there has been no decrease in vehicle costs
nor in the annual traffic growth; the total cost over-run of the project was about 10 percent. The Appraisal
ERR and current estimates after the completion of the project are as follows:
Vehicle Operating Cost                                  NstMed
:2  Iy ASfter Project Complat'loW
Estimated
ERR                                50
VOC -202                            42.6
VOC                                 50.5
VOC +202                            56.1
Annual
Traffic Growth
0t                               48.1
32                               50.5                               49
Construction Costs
Estimated Costs                         50.5
Costs + 152                           45.7                               42



- 23 -
7. Status of Loan Covenants
Loan Covenant                     Loan Agreement                           Status
Section
a) Conditions for Loan Effectiveness
Nomination of Counterpart Staff    Section 6.01          Partially fulfilled. Training specialist
appointed.
b) Condition for Disbursement
Bank's acceptance of a list of       Para 4(b)           Partially fulfilled. Reseal Phase 1, II
roads to be included in Part         Schedule 1          and III accepted. Overlay Phase I
A(i), (ii) and (iii) of the                              accepted.
Project; (Category (1))
Counterpart for the Manager of       Para 4(c)           Chairman of the Interim Equipment
the Hire Funding Scheme has been   Schedule 1            Management Board was designated
appointed (Category (2))                                 (temporarily) as Manager of the Hire Fund
Scheme.
c) Covenants
Seek external finance for            Section 3.01        Fulfilled.  Co-financing was secured from
components of the Road               (c)                 CDB, loans were also secured from Saudi
Maintenance Program.                                     Funds and IDB for the financing of some
elements of the program.
Borrower to give priority to the   Section 3.01 (c)   Partially fulfilled in 1985/86. Provision
allocation of local funds for                            of local funds to the project was about
carrying out the Road                                    461 of requirements.
Maintenance Program
Preparation of an implementation   Section 3.03 (a)   Not fulfilled.
plan for the training program by   and (b)
February 29, 1984
Consultation regarding the list    Section 3.04          Fulfilled.
of roads to be included in the
Road Maintenance Project
Establish a Road Planning Unit       Section 3.05 (a)   Partially fulfilled. The unit was
by September 1, 1983 and provide   and (b)               established. Operational resources not
it with resources as required.                           adequate.
Establish positions for a            Section 3.06        Fulfilled
Contracts Engineer and three
Field Engineers not later than
September 1, 1983.
Measures to be taken to secure       Section 3.08        Fulfilled
the timely supply of materials
of adequate quality and quantity
Submission of Project Audit          Section 4.02 (c)   Audit reports were submitted.
Report
Not fulfilled. Implementation of the
Implementation of the 1978 Axle    Section 4.02 (a)   program is pending subject to approval of
Load Program to be continued                             the Road Traffic Act Amendment by
legislature.
Not fulfilled. Vehicle fitness to be
Current road safety practices to   Section 4.03 (b)   incorporated in Amendment to Road Traffic
be reviewed and safety programs                          Act.  Other aspects not fulfilled.
implemented



- 24 -
Procedures to be established to    Section 4.04          Fulfilled
make foreign exchange available
for contractore
Bank to be consulted annually        Section 4.05        Fulfilled,  Bank was informed about
concerning budget requiresents                           yearly budget.
Re-eotabliab the Hire Funding        Section 4.07        Not fulfilled.  Interim Equipment
Scheme                                                   Management Board vas appointed in July
1985 but never prepared an action plan.
Consultants were invited to submit
proposals. No action wva taken and the
contracting of Technical Assistant&
deferred pending results of a feasibility
study to investigate privatization.



- 25 -
S. Use of Bank Resource.
A. Staff Inputs
f                                                    ''' -   '    ''' '   .  ! .  "''. '  .. ..... .. . ... ... ' !. '  ' . ......... .. ..  . .. ... . . ..........
Pv*t'c.,
Th              0.1               2.6     44.7                                                                     47.4
A1ppkm                                    5.3                                                                       5.3
*BqhO1rd
Board A.povml                             0.3                                                                       0.3
Supervbios                                         3.4     5.1       9.0      15.3      6.7      6.5      1.6      41.1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                   -   .    .   .... .....   ..... ........  ................ ---.......... . 
* --; -; -,  :::   S::, '.   :I  ::   .S   ''.?> .S                                                            L A,,
B. Misuion*
heuph                 7/82                1                 5                Bc                 -
AppnI                 11/12               5                14           2Mc. Me, IN,
iTrI
Boad  -qI
Boad  p"Oval           S/3U               1                 3                Bc                 2                P
Siqarvuo               6184               1                 4                E.                 3                F,P
12/14              2                 7               Ec, Bo              3                P.M
5/15               1                 5                BB                 3               F.,
11/t5              2                 4                 Ek                3                F,M
6196               2                                 B Bc, U             3                F
111/6              1                                   B R.              4                P,m
4/17               2                 4               Bc. H               3                F
1/87               1                 9                U                  3               P.P
1/11               1                 6                B                  2                F
71IS                                 a                Bc                 2                F
6189               1                 5                B&                 2                F
}/ Xc * Economist; In * Engineer; FA - Financial Analyst; TrS * Transpol   Specialist
I 1 - No significant problems;  2 - Moderate problems ; 3 * Major problems;  4 - Major problem   not
being adequately addressed.
l/I - Financial; N - Managerial; P * Procuremnt



