Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4344b-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
JAMAICA
April 28, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Approximate Selling Rate at the
Official Parallel Market
Official Rate                           (Since January 1983)
US$1   = J$ 1.78                 US$1.0   = J$ 2.60
J$ 1.0 = US$0.56                 J$ 1.0   = US$0.38
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31
Weights and Measures
British/US Units                 Metric Equivalent
1 foot (ft)                     = 0.305 meter (m)
1 mile (mi)                      = 1.609 kilometers (km)
1 sq mile (mi2)                  = 2.589 square kilometers (km2)
1 pound (1 lb)                   = 0.454 kilogram (kg)
1 short ton (2,000 lbs)          = 0.907 metric ton (m ton)
1 long ton (2,240-lbs)           = 1.016 metric ton (m ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAJ       Airport Authority of Jamaica
ADT       Annual Average Daily Traffic
DC        Directorate of Construction (MOC)
DEMS      Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services (MOC)
DM        Directorate of Maintenance (MOC)
DMP       Directorate of Major Projects (MOC)
DTS       Directorate of Technical Services (MOC)
FMS       Financial Management System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
HSF       Hire Funding Scheme
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
ITA       Island Traffic Authority
JMM       Jamaica Merchant Marine
JRC       Jamaica Railway Corporation
KSAC      Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation
MA        Ministry of Agriculture
MLG       Ministry of Local Government
MOC,      Ministry of Construction (Works)
MPUT      Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
NPV       Net Present Value
PAJ       Port Authority of Jamaica
PSIP      Public Sector Investment Program
RMCS      Road Maintenance Works Costing System
RMP       Road Maintenance Program for FY 1983/84-1986/87
ROMGRAM   Road Maintenance Programing System
RRIP      Rural Roads Improvements Projects
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
TAA       Traffic Area Authority
TPOS      T.P.O'Sullivan and Partners, Consulting Engineers
TRRL      Transport and Road Research Laboratory, UK



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
JAMAICA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   PROJECT DEVELOPMENT, OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE        ....................  1
A.  Project Development ....................................I..1
B.  Project Objectives and Description ..1..................... 
II.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   . ............. . .... .....................  2
A.  The Transport System ........ *..  ..........    ...............  2
B.  The Transport Sector Organization ..........     ..............  3
C.  Sector Issues and Strategies         .............................  3
D. Roads and Road Transport     ... ...........         ..............  5
III. INSTITUTIONAL CONSIDERATIONS    ....     ..........................   8
A.  Organization and Staffing . ............................. . .    8
B.  Road Planning .........................................................  9
C.  Highway Maintenance ..# ...... ... .. . .  .........................  9
D.  Hire Funding Scheme .. ............ .......................... .  12
E.  The Equipment Fleet . .................... ... ........ . ...   13
F.  Training      .................................................  13
G.  Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing      ............  14
IV.  THE ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT    .......... ......   14
A.  Road Maintenance Program FYs 1983/84-1986/87 .............      14
B.  Project Components      ..................  ....................  16
C.  Cost Estimates,-Financing and Disbursement    .    .............  18
D.  Implementation and Procurement ...........  ..    ..............  21
E.  Financial Reporting, Auditing and Monitoring      ...........   22
F.  Summary of Economic Evaluation    .........................     23
G.  Project Risks ...............................        .          24
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................      24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Jamaica in October 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. 0. Raggambi (Highway
Engineer), G. Morra (Training Specialist) and J. Wesberry (Financial
Analyst/Consultant), Ms. K. Sierra (Economist) and Ms. M. Pokorny
(Economist/Consultant). The report has been edited by Ms. Virginia Foster.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
2.1 Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode in Comparison
with the Gross Domestic Product (1977/78-1981/82) ....      .....  27
2.2  Gasoline and Diesel Consumption (1970-1981) ....        .............  28
2.3 Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions to
Government Revenues (1973/74-1981/82) .....................       29
2.4 Ministry of Construction (Works) Expenditures on Roads
(1978/79-1982/83) .........................................       30
3.1  Expenditure on Routine Road Maintenance (1979/80-1982/83) ...       31
4.1  Phase I Overlay Program ................   ..     ...................  32
4.2  Phase I Reseal and Seal Program ............   ..     ...............  33
4.3  List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment ........   ..     ............  34
4.4  Schedule of Estimated Disbursements ..........   ..     .............  35
4.5  Implementation Schedule (Chart 24783) .........   ..    ............  36
ANNEXES
1.   Past Bank Assistance in the Highway Subsector ....        ...........  37
2.   Transport Sector:   Background ...............................      40
3.   Outline Terms of Reference for the Road Planning Unit     ......    44
4.   Training Program .........       ...................................  48
5.   Economic Evaluation .........................................       52
6.   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File .......       59
CHARTS
1.   24781 - Ministry of Construction (Works) .60
2.   24782 - Directorate of Maintenance .61
MAPS
IBRD 14241R - Jamaica - Previous Bank Highway Projects
IBRD 16846 - Jamaica - Highway Maintenance Project



I.   PROJECT DEVELOPMENT, OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
A.   Project Development
1.01      Jamaica's main arterial road network developed gradually from the
era of horse-drawn carriages and bridle roads to the age of the motor
vehicle. Asphaltic pavements were provided mainly between 1950 and 1960, and
the increasing volume of traffic during the 1960s necessitated the recon-
struction and expansion of the network, particularly where it served major
population areas. The Government's priority in the early 1970s, however,
shifted from new construction and major improvements to the preservation of
the network, which, by that time, was showing signs of deterioration due to
aging and lack of maintenance. The country's efforts at systematic mainte-
nance of the road network were supported by the Bank-financed Second Highway
Project (Loan 899-JM, US$ 9.3 million, May 1973), which comprised a program
for periodic maintenance, procurement of maintenance equipment, and technical
assistance for improving the capability of the Ministry of Construction
(Works) (MOC) in road maintenance operations and management. Following a
comprehensive study of road maintenance needs under the technical assistance
component of the same project, the Government adopted a Five-Year Road
Maintenance Program for FYs 1979/80-1983/84. The Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1740-JM, US$16.0 million, June 1979) covered the periodic maintenance
component of the program and provided continuity to equipment supply and
institutional measures initiated under the Second Highway Project.
1.02      In early 1982, in view of the expected completion of the Fourth
Highway Project by mid-1983, the Government requested and the Bank agreed to
the financing of a Study 1/ for the development of the next phase of the
road maintenance program from the proceeds of the Fourth Highway Loan. The
Study was undertaken by consultants T.P.O'Sullivan and Partners (TPOS)(UK) in
the second half of 1982. The consultants' findings and recommendations
provided the basis for formulating the Government's Road Maintenance Program
for FYs 1983/84-1986/87 (RMP), and, within that, the proposed project.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
1.03      The principal objective of the proposed highway maintenance project
is to help provide continuity to the road subsector of Jamaica in support of
the Government's strategy for preserving rather than expanding the country's
main highway network. The project is designed to provide for urgently needed
maintenance of selected sections of the network, procurement of vehicles and
maintenance equipment and further strengthening of the institutional
capability of MOC in areas of planning, maintenance operations, equipment
management and staff training. The project is in line with a strategy which
emphasizes the preservation/extension of the life of existing facilities and
stresses the importance of improving maintenance and management practices.
The scope of the Government's RMP, including that of the proposed project, is
1/   Road Improvement and Maintenance Project (RIMP) Stage III Study;
referred to throughout this report as "The Study."



- 2 -
well balanced between the most pressing needs of the subsector and the
country's financial resources and institutional capabilities.
1.04      In detail, the proposed project comprises:
(a) Periodic road maintenance consisting of:
(i)  Asphaltic concrete overlay of existing pavement on about
160 miles of roads;
(ii)  Asphaltic sealing and resealing with double surface treatment
of some 360 miles of roads; and
(iii)  Preparatory work, such as drainage improvement and
surface patching, for (i) and (ii) preceding;
(b)  Procurement of utility vehicles, dump trucks and miscellaneous
maintenance equipment, tools for maintenance and repair of equip-
ment; equipment for training; and
(c) About 245 man-months of technical assistance by consultants for the
strengthening of MOC's planning, maintenance and equipment manage-
ment and training capabilities.
1.05      The staff of MOC gained valuable experience in formulating and
executing maintenance programs through working in close association with
consultants engaged under previous Bank-financed highway projects (Annex 1
and Map IBRD 14241R). With the additional strengthening of its organization
under the proposed project, it is considered that MOC would be capable of
planning, evaluating and monitoring the road maintenance activities and of
implementing the proposed project under the "sectoral" concept. Accordingly,
during appraisal, only the first phase of a broadly formulated three-phased
periodic maintenance program was firmly defined, and the road sections for
the remaining phases of the program would be selected by MOC, using
evaluation criteria developed during the Study. A list of roads, with
justification for their selection, would be submitted to the Bank for review
and approval (para 4.03).
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Transport System
2.01      The basic transport infrastructure required to meet Jamaica's
economic development needs is in place. The country's land transport system
is well developed and consists of about 12,000 miles of roads and a 200-mile
long railway system, which is almost entirely Government-owned. Apart from
bauxite-industry-related exports and imports, all internal freight is by road
transport, and practically all passenger traffic travels on the road system.
International freight traffic through 12 ports amounted to 13.4 million tons
of cargo in 1981. Six of those ports handle bauxite-alumina exports, while
four ports specialize in the export of banana and sugar. The ports of
Kingston and Montego Bay deal with general cargo, and Kingston, Jamaica's



most important port, operates a container terminal partly for transshipment.
Air transport is served by two international airports as well as by several
small domestic airports and airstrips. The two international airports are at
Montego Bay, which serves the north coast and the tourist traffic, and at
Kingston, which serves the southern coast and caters mainly to business
travel. Transport modes other than roads are treated in detail in Annex 2.
The road subsector is discussed in paragraphs 2.09-2.16.
B.   The Transport Sector Organization
2.02      Except for the road subsector, responsiblity for transport
administration in Jamaica falls under the Ministry of Public Utilities and
Transport (MPUT). Within the road subsector, MOC is responsible for the
construction and maintenance of the main road network, and the Ministry of
Local Government (MLG) is responsible for roads maintained by Parish
Councils, while both the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) and MOC construct
agricultural feeder roads which are maintained by MA. Planning for the
greater Kingston area is performed by the Kingston and St. Andrew Corporation
(KSAC). The Jamaica Railway Corporation (JRC) operates the public railway
system, while the Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ) controls the port of
Kingston and sets port tariffs for the rest of the Jamaican ports. The
Jamaica Merchant Marine (JMM), established in 1976, is Jamaica's national
shipping company. The Airport Authority of Jamaica (AAJ) is in charge of the
country's public airports, and Air Jamaica is the national airline. These
autonomous corporations report to MPUT.
C.   Sector Issues and Strategies
2.03       Since Jamaica already has the necessary transport infrastructure to
meet the demands of a reviving economy, large capital investments will not be
needed in the foreseeable future. Instead, moderate capital expenditures to
maintain the level of serviceability of existing facilities should be the
major focus in the coming years. Given the strained condition of public
sector finances, there is a need to ensure that the sector becomes
financially self-sufficient, with users meeting the costs of services and
transport infrastructure being used more efficiently. The Government's
planning capabilities should be strengthened in order to increase the sector
efficiency through adequate pricing and appropriate regulatory policies and
investment mix.
(i) Transport Planning and Coordination
2.04       The lack of a centralized agency for planning and coordinating
transport policy was a main source of concern in the early 1970s when the
Government intended to make sizable investments in the transport sector;
therefore, provisions were made in the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
(Loans 1032-JM and 1740-JM) for technical assistance to establish a permanent
Transport Planning Unit within MPUT. However, because of budgetary
constraints, the Government postponed the establishment of the Unit.
2.05       Since overall limitations on public investment have resulted in
abandoning the ambitious plans of the early 1970s, the lack of intermodal
planning and coordination capabilities has not led to any serious misalloca-
tion of resources. However, the Government recognizes the need to improve



- 4 -
planning capabilities within the agencies in charge of the different
transport subsectors. To that end, a Road Planning Unit (para 3.04) is
being established within MOC to plan and coordinate all road construction and
naintenance programs undertaken by that Ministry. It is envisaged that the
scope of the Unit's work will eventually be expanded to include all planning
activities associated with the country's entire road network. Technical
assistance for the Unit is included in the proposed project (para 4.10). In
addition, the Government intends to expand the present capacity of MPUT's
kdvisory and Monitoring Unit to evaluate and monitor user charges, prices and
regulations affecting the transport-related public enterprises and to prepare
strategies for the development of land transportation. It is intended that
technical assistance, comprising the services of a Transport Planner and a
Surface Transport Specialist, would be provided under the Bank's proposed
Kingston Metropolitan Region Urban Transport Project.
(ii) Financial Performance of the Revenue-Earning Transport Enterprises
2.06      The program for the recovery and stabilization of the Jamaican
economy calls for a substantial improvement in the financial performance of
the public sector. Among the transport sector public enterprises, only PAJ
generates an operating surplus. The burden caused to the Government by the
critical financial situation of JRC and Air Jamaica is one of the main
sectoral issues currently being addressed. Despite Air Jamaica's aggressive
management aimed at reducing costs and eliminating unprofitable services,
coupled with a determined effort of the island's Tourist Board which has led
to improved traffic levels, its financial situation continues to be
difficult, mainly because promotional fares offered to compete with North
'merican carriers have increased break-even load factors.     In the case of
JRC, the Non-Urban Transport Study, carried out under Loan 1032-JM,
identified several measures to rationalize railway operations, including the
closing of uneconomic lines. As a followup to the study's recommendations,
JRC, with Bank financing under the Technical Assistance Loan (2106-JM), has
engaged a financial expert to review the railway's financial management and
pricing policies and to prepare an action plan to rationalize the railway
services, including the introduction of tariff revisions and the closing of
uneconomic lines. Preparation and implementation of this action plan would
be a condition under the proposed Second Structural Adjustment Loan.
(iii) Investment Strategy
2.07      Public transportation investment for the period 1977/78-1981/82
represented about 2% of GDP. The roads subsector accounted for an average
of 63% of transport investment for the same period, while rail, airports,
Air Jamaica, and ports accounted for 6%, 10%, 2% and 13% respectively
(Table 2.1). Over the next three years, public sector investment in
transport is expected to increase slightly as a percent of GDP. The increase
is attributed mainly to investments contemplated by JMM in bulk vessels for
bauxite transport. Excluding this enterprise, transport investment is
expected to remain at about 2% of GDP, with the modal distribution of
investment basically unchanged from that of previous years. The planned
level and distribution of investment between modes is in line with overall
priorities in the sector.



- 5 -
2.08       The most critical need in the sector is the execution of an
adequately funded program of road rehabilitation and maintenance, a matter
being addressed under the proposed project. In the railway subsector, needed
investment in deferred maintenance of the bauxite-related railway lines is
under way, while capital expenditures for the rest of the network are being
postponed until appropriate measures for the rationalization of railway
services have been determined. In the aviation subsector, investment in
runway lengthening and related works (such as paving of the parallel taxiway
and improvements to instrument landing systems) at Montego Bay's Sangster
Airport could be warranted and would support Government objectives to promote
tourism. In the port subsector, facilities are adequate to meet the needs of
the economy and to support the promotion of Kingston as a major transshipment
center for the Caribbean. Investments are being concentrated on the Kingston
Free Zone adjacent to the port.
D.   Roads and Road Transport
(i) The Road Network and Traffic
2.09      Jamaica's road network is relatively extensive and totals about
12,000 miles. The main non-urban network, which is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Construction, totals about 2,900 miles, of which about 90% are
paved. The remainder of the island's roads total some 9,100 miles, of which
8,200 are administered by Parish Councils and about 900 miles of urban-type
roads in the Metropolitan Kingston area are administered by KSAC. In
addition, MA is responsible for agricultural feeder roads. The primary road
system can be characterized as a coastal ring with three main roads crossing
the mountains and connecting the northern and southern coasts directly.
Since the present road network is basically complete, the Government's
investment strategy is expected to focus on the preservation of the existing
road system.
2.10      A high proportion of the main road network was not originally
constructed to specific engineering standards, much of it having been built
before the advent of the motorcar. There is considerable variation in the
standards of alignment, construction and drainage within comparatively short
lengths. Because of these inconsistencies, many of the roads have been
maintained on a piecemeal basis, further accentuating the uneven, fragmented
nature of the network, particularly in regard to surfacing. Some major
improvements have been made, however, to the primary and secondary networks
over the past 20 years. The primary road network (all of which has an
asphaltic wearing course) is in reasonable condition. However, the condition
of part of the secondary road network and the tertiary road network has
steadily declined in recent years since the maintenance budget allocations
were inadequate to arrest the deterioration of these roads, which
predominantly have sealed surfaces.
2.11      Traffic on the island's main roads grew at rates between 6% and 9%
during the 1968-1974 period, and then, because of the oil crisis of 1974 and
the subsequent economic downturn, stagnated and declined after 1976. Traffic
counts made in 1979 showed that there had been a decrease in traffic of up to
16% between 1978 and 1979. This decrease probably continued during 1980,
despite the influx of vehicles (mainlv cars) in that year, which had a
greater effect on urban traffic flows than on rural traffic levels. Readily



- 6 -
available data on gasoline sales, a reasonable proxy for traffic levels,
confirm these variations and show that the declining trend was reversed in
1981 as a consequence of the improvement in the country's economic
performance. Diesel sales for road traffic are more difficult to identify
because of the consumption of diesel for non-transport uses, but appear to
have followed much the same pattern (Table 2.2).
(ii) Road User Charges
2.12      Road user charges have not been based upon clearly stated
objectives or upon a comprehensive analysis of their impact on the transport
sector. Although road user charges would more than cover all recurrent and
capital road expenditure requirements, receipts from these charges have been
partly used for other sectors while road maintenance remained underfunded
(para 3.09 and Table 2.3). Fuel taxes are the most important revenue
source. In August 1982, the retail price of gasoline was US$2.19 per US
gallon and that of diesel US$1.36 per US gallon. The tax component of
gasoline and diesel oil retail prices is 40% and 12% respectively. Fuel
prices are sufficient to cover the c.i.f. import price and commercialization
costs. It is not clear, however, whether the structure and level of charges
on heavy vehicles are sufficient to ensure that such vehicles pay enough to
cover the damage which they cause to the road system. A road user charges
study should be one of the priorities of MPUT's Advisory and Monitoring Unit,
once it is suitably staffed (para 2.05).
(iii) The Road Transport Industry
2.13      The road freight transport industry, which is not closely regu-
lated, is relatively efficient. However, the industry has been affected by
the reduction of vehicle and spare part imports since 1976, which has led to
a reduction in the effective size of the vehicle fleet. The cost resulting
from the stress imposed on the country's road pavements by heavy vehicles had
been a concern for both the Government and the Bank for some time. At the
negotiations for the Fourth Highway Loan, the Government agreed that, in
addition to taking necessary actions to enforce vehicle dimension and weight
control according to its regulations, it would also introduce changes in its
regulations based on its Axle Load Program formulated in late 1978. The pro-
gram was scheduled to be completed in three phases during 1979-1982. There
has been considerable delay in the implementation of the program, and legis-
lative action related to axle load limits and enforcement of axle load con-
trol measures was approved by cabinet only in early 1982.     Several other ele-
ments of the program such as the purchase of additional weigh bridges and
load meters, increase in patrol strength, and carrying out of a road haulage
study have not yet been implemented. Assurances were obtained from the
Government at loan negotiations that it would continue the implementation of
its 1978 Axle Load Control Program, satisfactory to the Bank.
(iv) Investment in the Road Subsector
2.14      Road expenditures are financed from annual budget allocations pro-
vided by the Government and from loans from international agencies. Total
expenditures on roads increased in real terms by 78% between 1973/74 and
1976/77, and then declined until 1980/81, when they amounted to only 26% of
the level attained in 1976/77 (Table 2.3). This situation, only slightly
reversed in 1981/82, reflects a decrease in budget allocation caused by the



- 7 -
Government's policy to reduce public outlays. Road investments by MOC
accounted for an average of about 62% of all capital expenditures on roads
during the period 1978/79-1982/83 (Table 2.4).
2.15       The Government's Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) for
1983/84 through 1985/86 provides about J$ 59.7 million (US$33.4 million) in
MOC's capital budget for roads for 1983/84. This represents a 13% increase
from the previous year's budget. This budget envisages reduced expenditures
for main road improvements. Provisions for periodic maintenance of main
roads would decline slightly in 1983/84 because of the anticipated gap
between works financed under the Fourth Highway Project and the proposed
project. The pace of investment in main road periodic maintenance would pick
up in the later years of the PSIP as programed under the Road Maintenance
Program supported by this project (para 4.01). For 1983/84, the Government's
Road Maintenance Program represents 25% of MOC's capital budget. 2/
(v) Rural Roads Improvement Program (RRIP)
2.16       The Government introduced the RRIP in 1982/83 with the major
objectives of:
(a) arresting the deterioration of the tertiary and feeder road net-
work; and
(b) providing employment in economically depressed, high unemployment
areas.
Approximately US$25 million was spent on the program in 1982/83. While the
focus of this program is correctly aimed at the rehabilitation of the rural
road network in the program's initial year of implementation, the roads
included were not selected on any defined economic criteria. Recognizing the
need to rationalize the program, the Government, with the assistance of
consultants financed under Loan 1740-JM, has defined selection criteria and
methodologies to be followed in future investments under the program. These
criteria, which would also be applied more generally to all road investments
undertaken by the Government, were reviewed at negotiations and found to be
appropriate by the Bank. The Road Planning Unit would be responsible for
collecting necessary data and carrying out the economic analysis required for
development of the program (para 3.06).
(vi) Road Traffic Safety
2.17      The Island Traffic Authority (ITA) and Traffic Area Authority (TAA)
are responsible for the administration of traffic management measures, which
include motor vehicle inspection, issuing of driving licenses, keeping
records of traffic accidents and issuing special vehicle permits. The
enforcement of road traffic regulations is the responsibility of the Police
2/   This program does not include the maintenance works, amounting to
J$ 4.0 million, being carried out under the Fourth Highway Project. In
addition to capital investment, RMP provides for routine maintenance
under the MOC recurrent budget.



Traffic Department, while MOC, through its Traffic Engineering Branch,
provides and maintains the island's traffic control devices. It also
initiates improvements to accident-prone locations based on the analysis of
accident statistics. Despite the efforts being made by these authorities to
improve road safety standards and enforce traffic regulations, the frequency
and severity of road traffic accidents are considered high. The lack of
systematic monitoring, analysis and evaluation of traffic safety information,
however, makes it difficult to assess the effectiveness of the existing
practices. In the interest of developing a more comprehensive road safety
program, assurances were obtained from the Government, at loan negotiations,
that, with the support of ITA and TAA, current road safety practices would be
reviewed, and specific programs, aimed at improving present road safety
operations, would be implemented.
III. INSTITUTIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
A.   Organization and Staffing
3.01       MOC, which would be the executing agency for the proposed project,
is responsible for improving and maintaining the main road network.
It is organized into seven directorates, of which five are technical and two
are responsible for administrative and personnel matters (Chart 1). The
Directorate of Maintenance (DM) is responsible for ensuring the maintenance
of roads, bridges, drainage channels and buildings. The Directorate of
Construction (DC) executes and administers projects financed by MOC's capital
expenditure budget, while the Directorate of Major Projects (DMP) administers
externally financed projects. The Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical
Services (DEMS) is responsible for purchasing, maintaining and repairing all
Ministry vehicles and equipment and is, therefore, also closely associated
with the operation of the Hire Funding Scheme (HFS) (para 3.16). The Direc-
torate of Technical Services (DTS) is responsible for survey, design, cost
estimates, specifications, procurement of contract works financed from MOC's
budget, land acquisition, traffic surveys and laboratory investigations.
There has been some recent expansion of MOC for specific functions. A unit
for the implementation of RRIP was set up in early 1982, and a Road Planning
Unit is now being established, primarily for coordinating road investment
programs within MOC (para 3.04).
3.02       The lack of qualified staff has been a serious problem in all
Government offices. The prevailing low Government salary levels, compared to
those in the private sector, are recognized to be the major reason for the
staff shortages. At present, about half of the 90 professional positions in
MOC are unfilled, and MOC is faced with further difficulties in retaining
experienced staff and recruiting staff for new positions required for the
strengthening of its organizational structure. In recognition of this
problem, the Government, as part of its staffing strategy for the proposed
project (para 4.20), has made appropriate arrangements to contract to MOC
principal professional staff, essential to the execution of the project, on
suitable terms.   In addition, the Government is in the process of improving
the pay structure for the civil service as a whole.



-9-
B.   Road Planning
3.03       In the absence of a planning unit within MOC, major road investment
programs in the past were prepared by foreign consultants, usually in
connection with externally financed projects. Although the consultants'
recommendations had been reviewed by MOC, that Ministry was not appropriately
equipped to assess the impact of the proposed investment on the subsector as
a whole. This deficiency has been further aggravated by a lack of central-
ized transport planning within the Government. As one consequence, road
programs have been initiated and implemented without adequate coordination
among the various ministries, such as MOC, MLG and MA.
3.04       In order to alleviate the above-mentioned shortcomings, a Road
Planning Unit is being set up within MOC. The principal task of the Unit
initially would be to coordinate the various programs being carried out in
the Ministry in order to prevent overlap and duplication of efforts, which
have occurred in the past. Also, in order to ensure the optimum allocation
of available funds, the Unit would develop a systematic approach to invest-
ment planning for the subsector according to appropriate technical and
economic criteria.
3.05      With respect to maintenance operations, the Unit would be respon-
sible for the formulation of the yearly periodic maintenance programs, using
the economic evaluation model developed under the Study, and for the updating
and refinement of the model itself through periodic review of vehicle opera-
ting costs, road condition reports and unit costs of construction. The Unit
would also modify existing maintenance management systems and procedures
related to the annual allocation of routine maintenance funds, the programing
and scheduling of road maintenance activities and road maintenance costing
(para 3.15).
3.06      The principal staff of the Unit comprises a highway planning
engineer, a transport economist and a systems analyst. These posts are being
filled by consultants who would be assigned sufficiently qualified local
counterparts. The counterparts are expected eventually to take over these
positions as permanent MOC staff. The services of the highway planning
engineer from TPOS are financed from Loan 1740-JM, while those of the
transport economist and the systems analyst are being provided by IDB. In
addition, a second transport economist would be engaged, under the project,
for a period of 18 months, primarily to assist in the planning of the RRIP
(para 2.16). Since the contract of the highway planning engineer would
expire in September 1983 and those of the two IDB-financed consultants in
April 1984, the Government requested that, in the interest of extended
in-service training for counterpart staff, provision be made under the
project for extension of the consultants' services.     In total, the project
would provide for some 60 man-months of consultant services (para 4.10). A
work program, as set forth in the outline terms of reference for the Road
Planning Unit (Annex 3), was agreed between the Government and the Bank at
loan negotiations.
C.   Highway Maintenance
(i) Administration
3.07       The administration and operations of DM are divided among the head-
quarters in Kingston, seven area offices, 13 parish offices, and 43 divi-
sions. Of the divisions, 33 have responsibility for roads and 10 are



- 10 -
concerned with maintenance of buildings. The DM organization is shown on
Chart 2. The central administration, in addition to the Director, consists
of two Chief Superintendents and a Chief Engineer. The Chief Engineer, while
being technical advisor to the Director, is also the Project Director of
the ongoing Fourth Highway Project and controls the project implementation in
the field through three County Engineers, the Senior Superintendents and the
Parish Superintendents. DM's approved organizational structure provides for
23 officers at headquarters and about 500 technical and clerical personnel in
the field.
3.08      Based on the experience gained during the implementation of the
Fourth Highway Project, the additional staffing needs of DM have been
consideret in formulating the RMP and the proposed project. Accordingly,
assurances were obtained from the Government at loan negotiations that new
positions for a Contracts Engineer and three Field Engineers would be
established. The Contracts Engineer would initially be counterpart to the
consultant to be appointed under the technical assistance (para 4.09), while
one Field Engineer would be assigned to each County Engineer.
(ii) Routine and Periodic Maintenance Operations
3.09      Because of the heavy demand on the country's financial resources,
allocations for routine maintenance during FYs 1979/80-1982/83 remained about
40% below the levels envisaged by the Government in 1979 (Table 3.1). More-
over, the analysis of the expenditure pattern of maintenance funds revealed
that the overhead and administrative expenses of the maintenance organization
have been absorbing an increasingly disproportionate portion of the funds and
that the funds remaining were expended predominantly on general road mainte-
nance activities, such as bushing and clearing of roadway, side drains and
culverts, while pavement patching had been performed to only a limited
extent.
3.10      In order to reduce the accumulated backlog in pavement patching,
the Government has included in its RMP a pavement patching and rehabilitation
program, which provides for patching on about 600 miles per annum (about 20%
of the network). In addition, under the same program, DM would carry out
rehabilitation works for 30-40 miles of roads annually, comprising the recon-
struction of road base and application of surface treatment. It is antici-
pated that this program, over a four-year period, would reduce the accumu-
lated backlog in routine pavement maintenance by about 80%. The estimated
cost of this pavement patching and rehabilitation program is J$ 5.0 million
per annum (in 1982 prices), which would be financed from the Government's
capital budget. The FY 1982/83 level of annual allocation for general
routine maintenance operation of J$ 5.1 million (excluding overhead and
administration, and emergency maintenance expenses) is expected to be main-
tained in real terms during the RMP (para 4.02).
3.11      While the lack of funds has adversely affected the levels of
routine maintenance operations, the periodic maintenance program suffered
somewhat less because of Bank financing of overlay, resealing and rehabilita-
tion works under the Second and Fourth Highway Loans. Under these loans,
243 miles of roads were or are being overlayed and 457 miles sealed and
resealed. Also, under the Fourth Highway Project, about 260 miles of
secondary and tertiary roads were rehabilitated by MOC. The quality of work
has been good on overlays and fair to good on seal and reseal works. The



- 11 -
lower quality of seal and reseal works can be attributed to an inadequate
supply of good quality aggregate and an insufficient level of field
supervision. Also, the limited capacity of the construction industry and
administrative delays in contracting procedures contributed to the relatively
low level (70 miles per annum) of periodic maintenance works during the last
three years. These areas will receive increased attention during the
implementation of the RMP, as outlined in the following paragraphs.
3.12       Since the availability and quality of aggregate for maintenance
works has been a concern for some time, the status of the aggregate industry
was investigated as part of the Study. While there is sufficient capacity in
the industry to meet the expected demand in the future, the sporadic short-
falls in both quantity and quality of aggregate material are the result of
poor management, lack of incentive, aged crushing plant and shortage of spare
parts. As a means of securing regular supplies of good quality aggregate for
maintenance works, assurances were obtained from the Government at loan
negotiations that it would:
(a) define the aggregate requirement for its RMP one year in advance;
(b) give advance notice of aggregate requirements to quarries in the
various regions; and
(c) make foreign exchange available for the purchase of approved new
equipment and spares in the interest of increasing the quantity and
quality of production.
3.13      To ensure closer adherence to the technical specifications for
asphaltic overlay and reseal works, field supervision for the implementation
of the RMP would be strengthened through the engagement of additional staff,
as indicated in paragraph 3.08. Furthermore, under the training program
included in the proposed project, intensive training would be provided for DM
staff (para 4.12 and Annex 4).
3.14      The asphaltic overlay and almost all of the reseal works under the
Fourth Highway Project were executed by contract following local competitive
bidding procedures. Some asphaltic overlay contracts were awarded through
direct negotiations, reflecting the lack of competitiveness for this type of
works in the country. Compared to its depressed state in the late 1970s,
however, the construction industry is showing signs of gradual strengthen-
ing. During the last four years, there has been an increase in the number of
contractors for both reseal and overlay works, and, at present, there are 19
firms sufficiently experienced to undertake seal and reseal works and five
firms to carry out asphaltic overlay. The capacity of the industry, however,
is still constrained by shortage of equipment and spare parts due to restric-
tions on the availability of foreign exchange. In order to further increase
the capacity and efficiency of the road construction industry, assurances
were obtained from the Government at loan negotiations that foreign exchange
would be made available to contractors participating in the RMP for the
purchase of new equipment and spare parts. Such assistance, combined with
the already increased capacity of individual contractors as well as of the
contracting industry as a whole, would allow about an 80% increase in the
size of contract packages and an annual overlay and seal and reseal program
on the order of 150 miles. Furthermore, contract administration would be



- 12 -
strengthened by the engagement, under the technical assistance, of a
Contracts Engineer who would be assisted by a counterpart to be assigned by
MOC.
(iii) Maintenance Management Systems
3.15       During 1974 and 1975, DM introduced three interrelated systems as
tools for routine maintenance management. The Annual Allocation System was
developed to calculate the annual funding for routine maintenance for each
control section of the main road network. The Road Maintenance Programing
System (ROMGRAM) is the followup system for the annual programing and
scheduling of routine road maintenance activities for the road control sec-
tions, while the Road Maintenance Works Costing System (RMCS) was designed to
provide detailed monthly expenditure information on road maintenance activi-
ties. The introduction of these systems has been beneficial since, through
their application, the concept of planning and financial control for routine
maintenance has been accepted at various levels of DM. However, the inaccu-
racies in basic data, and the errors and delays in processing prevented these
systems from becoming effective tools of maintenance management. It will be
the task of the new Road Planning Unit to appropriately modify these
planning, financial control and monitoring systems and to ensure that the
information, produced on time, will lead to more effective management.
D.   Hire Funding Scheme
3.16       In early 1976, a Hire Funding Scheme (HFS) was introduced into MOC
with the main objectives of (a) reducing the overall cost to the Government
of owning, maintaining and running the fleet through improved management; and
(b) developing funds needed for equipment replacement and spare parts by
charging rental rates to users. It was envisaged that the scheme would
progress through stages of development to eventually become a self-financing
quasi-Government corporation. In 1976, MOC agreed to the setting up of a
Board for the management of HFS with a view to accelerating its development
as an independent agency. However, the Director of DEMS, in addition to his
other duties, became responsible for the operation of HFS, and, consequently,
HFS's operation remained very closely linked to that of DEMS, which lacks
sufficiently qualified and experienced staff for administering the scheme.
3.17       Over more than six years of existence, HFS has made very limited
progress. Despite initial efforts to establish and operate an appropriate
accounting system, monthly accounts are one year in arrears and basic
financial information is difficult to obtain. Record-keeping systems are not
functioning as intended, and information which would facilitate timely
management decisions is not readily available. Operating costs are
excessive, and HFS has, so far, been unable to generate funds for equipment
replacement. In fact, despite an annual Government subsidy of about J$ 4.4
million, the net loss on operating expenses over income, in FY 1981/82,
amounted to almost J$ 2.0 million.
3.18      The operation of HFS was comprehensively reviewed as part of the
Study, and several alternatives were considered for its future development.
The consultant concluded that the major deficiencies of the scheme's opera-
tion are mainly attributable to its organizational framework and that, there-
fore, the scheme should be separated organizationally as well as physically
from DEMS and operated on a commercial basis. The Government has accepted
this view and has proposed a plan for reestablishment of the HFS. The major
elements of the plan are:



- 13 -
(i) An interim Equipment Management Board comprising members of the
civil service and the private sector would be appointed by July 1,
1983 with the mandate of causing the HFS to be reestablished, by
not later than December 31, 1983, as a commercially operated
corporation.
(ii) Sufficiently qualified and experienced personnel would be appointed
to fill the posts of Hire Funding, Fleet and Service Managers and
Chief Accountant. To assist this local team, consultants would be
appointed under the technical assistance component of the project
(para 4.11).
(iii) The operation of the reconstituted Scheme would be divorced from
that of DEMS.
(iv) Financing sufficient to cover start-up expenses and adequate
working capital would be provided to the Scheme by the Government.
Assurances were obtained from the Government at loan negotiations that the
plan, which is considered to provide a sound framework for the viable
operation of the HFS, would be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank.
E.   The Equipment Fleet
3.19      The condition of the equipment fleet has a significant bearing upon
the viable operation of HFS. Over the past four years, the maximum number of
vehicles and equipment available at any one time has rarely exceeded 500, out
of a fleet varying from 800 to 1,000 units. This low availability has been
due to aged equipment, poor spares supply, inefficient operation of workshops
and lack of effective management. The average age of the fleet is high:
7.2 years for vehicles and 8.6 years for equipment. Based on these and other
indicators, as well as taking into consideration the anticipated work
programs, the Study consultant recommended the reduction of the fleet to
about 500 working units over the next five years. This reduction could be
accomplished through the writing off of older units in conjunction with a
fleet replenishment program over the same period, which would be aimed at
reducing the average age of the fleet to about four years. Under the
proposed replenishment program, about 470 units of vehicles, major equipment
and spare parts would be purchased during FYs 1983/84-1987/88 at an estimated
cost of about J$ 18.5 million (US$10.5 million). The Government included
about four-fifths of the equipment replenishment program in its RMP, and a
portion covering vehicles required for maintenance operations and miscella-
neous maintenance equipment would be financed under the proposed project
(para 4.07).
F. Training
3.20      A training program, largely for DM personnel, was implemented under
the Fourth Highway Project with the support of MOC's Training Unit and the
technical assistance consultant. The program, which was limited in scope and
budget, included formal training sessions for superintendents and work over-
seers and seminars for DM personnel on road maintenance technology and road
maintenance management systems. Under the equipment-related element of the
program, in addition to the formal mechanical apprenticeship training



- 14 -
courses, short courses were conducted for equipment operators and mechanics
by manufacturers' representatives. Overseas training was also financed under
the project for three senior workshop staff in the UK and for 11 engineering
staff and plant operators and six accountants in the US.
3.21      MOC's training activities are presently organized by the Training
Unit in the Personnel Directorate under the supervision of a Training and
Staff Development Committee which was formed in February 1982. Formal
training is being carried out through a number of established training
institutions which operate under the supervision of the Ministry of Labor and
Public Service. Specialized staff training which would meet the needs of MOC
staff more directly, however, has been hampered by a shortage of funds,
qualified instructors and training equipment. The Training Unit itself lacks
experienced staff to develop and supervise training programs required at
different staff levels in the Ministry. The project provides for the
strengthening of MOC's Training Unit and the expansion of training activities
throughout the Ministry. The main thrust of the training program would be
directed to areas closely related to road maintenance (para 4.12 and
Annex 4).
G.   Financial Management, Accounting and Auditing
3.22      The Permanent Secretary of MOC is responsible for the Ministry's
financial management and delegates these duties to the Financial Controller
who supervises the Budget Section, the Main Account Branch, and the Systems
and Management Control Unit. The latter is responsible for systems develop-
ment, operation and proper coding of transactions for processing under the
computer-based Financial Management System (FMS). Although FMS is well
planned, only about 20% of it is operational at present. It provides the
bare minimum of the financial reporting requirements, but important manage-
ment information is not being processed because of a lack of staff suffi-
ciently conversant with FMS. In order to gain greater benefit from FMS and
altogether improve the standard of accounting and financial reporting, train-
ing specifically designed for the needs of the accounting and internal audit-
ing staff of MOC would be provided under the proposed project. Independent
auditing for Government agencies is performed by the Auditor General of
Jamaica, whose office meets the Bank's requirements for impartiality and
independence.
IV. THE ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.   Road Maintenance Program FYs 1983/84-1986/87
4.01      The proposed project forms an integral part of the Government's
Road Maintenance Program for FYs 1983/84-1986/87, which was formulated in
light of the findings of the Study and the country's financial and insti-
tutional capabilities. The program comprises:
(a) Routine maintenance of the main road network covering roadside
bushing, cleaning of side drains and culverts, and routine mainte-
nance of bridges and other structures;



- 15 -
(b) Intensive pavement patching and rehabilitation of portions of the
main road network;
(c) Periodic road maintenance consisting of:
(i) Asphaltic concrete overlay of existing pavement on about
180 miles of roads;
(ii) Asphaltic resealing with double surface treatment of about
420 miles of roads; and
(iii) Preparatory works including drainage, pavement repairs and
surface regulations for roads in (i) and (ii).
(d) Procurement of about 365 units of vehicles and equipment;
(e) Procurement of spare parts required for preventive maintenance and
overhaul of salvageable units of the present fleet; and
(f) Engagement of local staff and technical assistance by consultants
to strengthen MOC's institutional capability in planning, equipment
management and implementation of road maintenance and staff train-
ing programs.
The estimated cost of the program is US$94.42 million, as shown in the
following table, which also indicates the portion of Bank financing under the
proposed loan and the amount for which financing would be sought by the
Government from external sources.
(US$ Million) 1/
Financing by              1983/84     1984/85     1985/86     1986/87     Total
Bank                        4.10        5.40        3.00        2.46      14.96
Co-financing 2/               .70       3.70        2.20        1.90       8.50
Other External Sources 3/    .16        2.64        2.84        5.94      11.58
Government
(i) Capital Budget        7.18       12.32       12.89       12.43      44.82
(ii) Recurrent Budget 4/   3.14        3.44        3.80        4.18      14.56
15.28       27.50       24.73       26.91      94.42
1/   Current prices.
2/   Discussions with multilateral and private sources for co-financing
arrangements are under way.
3/   To be identified.
4/   General routine maintenance (excluding administrative and overhead and
emergency maintenance expenses).



- 16 -
4.02       During negotiations, the following specific assurances were
obtained from the Government regarding budgetary support for the RMP:
(a)  that funding from the Recurrent Budget of general routine
maintenance operations -- exclusive of administration and overhead
and emergency road repair expenses -- would be maintained at least
at J$ 5.1 million per annum (at 1982 prices) in real terms over the
Program period;
(b)  that funding from the Capital Budget of an intensive pavement
patching and rehabilitation program would be maintained at least at
J$ 5.0 million per annum (at 1982 prices) in real terms over the
Program period;
(c)  that, for the remaining elements of the Program, the Government
would provide funds through the annual budget, in preference to
other highway capital expenditures;
(d)  that the Government would actively seek external financing for the
foreign cost components of the Program which are not covered by the
proposed loan; and
(e)  that the Ministry of Finance and MOC would consult with the Bank
annually on the amounts required for recurrent maintenance expendi-
tures and for the capital expenditure components of the RMP before
MOC's annual budget is finalized.
B.   Project Components
(i) Periodic Maintenance
4.03      The Study, based on the outcome of the road condition survey,
assessment of available resources and economic evaluation, broadly defined
the target of periodic maintenance for FYs 1983/84 to 1986/87 at 600 miles.
About 85% of this length, i.e., 520 miles, has been included in the proposed
project. Periodic maintenance works for this length of roads would be
divided into three phases, each corresponding to about a one-year works
program. The first phase package' was identified during appraisal (Tables 4.1
and 4.2 and Map IBRD 16846), comprising about 60 miles of overlay and 100
miles of seal and reseal works. Road sections for inclusion in the
subsequent phases would be selected by MOC following evaluation methodology
developed under the Study. Assurances were obtained from the Government at
loan negotiations that a list of roads to be included in the remaining two
phases, together with the economic justification for their selection, would
be submitted to the Bank by not later than March 31, 1984 and March 31, 1985
respectively. Since a large number of short road sections are expected to
qualify for periodic maintenance, it was considered appropriate to adopt this
sectoral approach of subproject selection, which would provide greater
flexibility for the packaging of contracts and execution of works according
to changing needs and resource availability.
4.04      About 160 miles of asphaltic overlays would be applied to
deteriorated sections of the main road network carrying relatively high
traffic volumes. Overlays would provide added strength required for the road
structure and would also improve riding qualities significantly, resulting in
substantial savings in vehicle operating costs.



- 17 -
4.05      About 360 miles of roads carrying lower traffic volumes would
receive a double asphaltic surface treatment.    Because of the generally high
subgrade strength of the country's road network, the roads earmarked for
surface treatment only occasionally show signs of structural failure; the
deterioration of surface is mainly the result of aging, accelerated by the
lack of adequate maintenance.
4.06      Pavement overlay and reseal works would be preceded by the
preparatory works, which normally include improvement and addition to
drainage facilities, pavement strengthening and patching to accommodate the
new surfacing, as well as minor realignments to improve traffic safety. In
order to assure continuity of periodic maintenance operation, MOC would begin
the preparatory works under the project in April 1983. The estimated cost of
these preparatory works up to the time of loan approval is about US$0.87
million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$0.40 million.
(ii) Equipment Procurement
4.07       Based on the analysis of the condition, age, availability and
utilization of the equipment fleet in the course of the Study, the consultant
recommended a vehicle and equipment fleet renewal program over a five-year
period (para 3.19). For the support of the routine maintenance operations
and the intensive pavement patching and rehabilitation program, the
procurement of dump trucks, four wheel drive utility vehicles, pickups and
miscellaneous maintenance equipment has been identified as a high priority
requirement. In addition to the procurement of these units and related spare
parts, the purchase of mechanical tools and facilities to enable basic
repairs and maintenance to be undertaken in the parishes, and maintenance
equipment for the training program has also been included in the proposed
project (Table 4.3).
(iii) Technical Assistance and Training
4.08      There is a well recognized need for institutional strengthening of
selected areas within MOC, and local staff would be recruited to fill newly
established positions.   Since there is a shortage of sufficiently experienced
technical personnel in the country, the newly recruited local staff would
initially be assigned as counterparts to consultants to be engaged under the
technical assistance.   Specifically, the consultants would assist MOC with:
(a)  the implementation of the periodic maintenance as well as other
components of RMP;
(b)  the operation of the newly established Road Planning Unit;
(c)  the reestablishment and operation of the Hire Funding Scheme; and
(d)  the planning and implementation of the Training Program.
4.09      To assist MOC with the implementation of the periodic maintenance
component of the Program, the technical assistance would also provide for the
services of a Contracts Engineer in addition to the Program Coordinator. The
Contracts Engineer would be responsible for drawing up prequalification and
tender documents, evaluating tenders and making recommendations for tender



- 18 -
awards, and would assist the County and Field Engineers in contract
administration. He would also be responsible for the quality control of
aggregate supply and would provide technical advice and assistance concerning
?reparatory, resealing and asphaltic concrete works with the particular
Dbjective of achieving closer adherence to technical specifications. The
Length of service for the Program Coordinator and the Contracts Engineer
gould be 35 and 30 months respectively.
S.10      The project provides for about 60 man-months of technical
assistance to the Road Planning Unit. The services of a highway planning
angineer, two transport economists and a systems analyst would be required
(para 3.06).
i.11      The proposed organization and management changes for the HFS
(para 3.18) would necessitate four key posts:    Hire Fund, Fleet and Service
'anagers and that of the Chief Accountant.    The success of the operation of
the HFS would depend, to a large extent, on the capabilities and dedication
)f those selected to fill these positions. Although local personnel with
axperience in private enterprise would be recruited, initially they would be
assigned as counterparts to foreign experts whose services are considered
assential for the period of takeover of the vehicle fleet from DEMS as well
as for the development and implementation of new operating procedures. Four
Eoreign experts would be engaged over a period of 18 months each.
S.12      The objective of the training program (Annex 4) is to strengthen
4OC's Training Unit and, in particular, to improve the skills of road and
aquipment maintenance personnel and accounting and auditing staff. Appro-
priately designed seminars would also be conducted for middle- and high-level
DM staff, and training abroad would be arranged for training officers and
technical personnel. The program would be assisted by the following tech-
aical assistance consultants: a Training Specialist (24 months), a Training
Instructor (Accounting and Auditing) (12 months), and a Superintendent
(Roads) (12 months). Four local instructors would also be engaged for road
naintenance and mechanical workshop training, for a total of 96 man-months.
rhe project also provides for the improvement of physical training facilities
and the purchase of training aids, equipment and vehicles for use in connec-
tion with training.
W.13      The training program would be coordinated by MOC's Training Unit
and undertaken in two phases. The training needs would be more closely
Ldentified in Phase I, and the program would be implemented in Phase II.
kssurances were obtained from the Government at loan negotiations that, based
3n the recommendations of a Phase I report, MOC would, by not later than
February 29, 1984, prepare an implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
Eor carrying out the training program.
1.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
4.14      The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$47.00 million
aquivalent based on October 1982 prices, as shown in the table on the next
)age. The project cost represents about 50% of the cost of the RMP. The
?roposed loan would finance US$15.00 million of the foreign exchange cost of
:he project estimated at US$23.46 million. The foreign exchange cost is
iquivalent to 50% of the total project cost. Arrangements for co-financing



- 19 -
Project Cost Estimates
Foreign as
local         Foreign        Total      Local        Foreign        Total      % of toal
(J$ million)                           (US$ million)
A. Periodic RDad Maintenance
(i) Pavement Overlay              13.01          9.81         22.82       7.28         5.49          12.77        43
(ii) Pavent Sealirg and
RPesealirg                     8.32          7.10         15.42        4.65        3.97           8.62        46
(iii) Prepartory -rks
for (i) ard (ii)
(a) contract                   2.84          2.72          5.56        1.58        1.52           3.11        49
(b) force wxcunt               6.63          6.36         12.99       3.71         3.56          7.26         49
Subtotal (A)             30.80          25.99        56.79       17.22       14.54          31.76        46
B. PDRa Maintenance Equipznt,
Tools and Spare Parts                0.60          4.36          4.96       0.34         2.44          2.78         88
C. Technical Assistance and Traiing
(i) PRad Plannirg Unit             0.29          1.18          1.47       0.16         0.66          0.82         80
(ii) Maintenance Directorate        0.32          1.28          1.60       0.18         0.71          0.89         80
(iii) Hire Furdirg Schem             0.35          1.41          1.76       0.20         0.79          0.99         80
(iv) Trainirg Progran               0.91          1.40          2.31       0.51         0.79          1.30         61
Subtotal (C)                   1.87          5.27          7.14        1.05        2.95          4.00         73
Base Costs (October 1982 prices)       33.27         35.62         68.89      18.61        19.93         38.54         52
D. Price Cbntingencies 1/              8.73           6.31         15.04       4.89         3.53          8.42         43
Total Project Cost 2/              42.00         41.93         83.93       23.50       23.46         46.96         50
Front End Fee on Bank Loan 3/        -            0.07          0.07        -           0.04          0.04        100
Total Financing Reuired            42.00         42.00         84.00      23.50        23.50         47.00         50
Bank Loan                            -           26.82           -          -          15.00
(D-financirg                         -           15.18           -          -           8.50
1/          Local    Foreign
1983      10%      8%
1984      10%.     7.5%
1985      10%      7%
1986      10%      6%
2/ Identifiable local taces ard dutie are about J$ 8.60 million (US$4.80 million) ard the total project cast, net of taKes
is J$ 75.80 million (US$42.40 million) equivalent.
3/ The precise aomt of the Front End Fee is US$37,406.



to finance the US$8.5 million balance of the foreign exchange cost of the
project are being discussed with multilateral and private sources.
The Government would finance the local currency cost of the project
(including taxes and transfers) estimated at US$23.50 million equivalent and
any foreign exchange cost for which external financing has not been
identified.
4.15       Cost estimates for asphaltic overlays and resealing are based on
the consultants' estimates, which were prepared using quantity estimates from
road condition inventories and prevailing contract rates in Jamaica for this
type of work. Estimates for preparatory works are also based on the road
condition inventories and on recent costs of similar work carried out by
contracts and by MOC force account. The estimated costs of vehicles and
miscellaneous maintenance equipment and workshop tools are based on TPOS and
DEMS' assessment in accordance with manufacturers' quotations and recent
purchase prices. The average man-month cost for consultant services is
expected to be US$10,000 (including salary, firm's fees, overheads and
profit, international travel and subsistence). The estimated cost of
technical assistance also includes provision for the foreign and local cost
of vehicles, local transport, office equipment and other minor items. The
estimated cost of the training programs, as detailed in Table 2 of Annex 4,
is J$ 2.31 million (US$1.3 million). The cost of items is based on recent
prices for similar services and supplies.
4.16       The foreign exchange components of surfacing, resealing and
preparatory works have been estimated from unit price analysis performed
under the study by the consultants at 43%, 46% and 49% of total cost, respec-
tively. For replacement of equipment based on the analysis of recent
purchases, the foreign exchange cost component has been estimated at 88% of
total cost on the basis of c.i.f. prices at the port of entry and on the
assumption that all items would be obtained from foreign sources. The
foreign exchange component of consultant services under the technical
assistance is estimated at 80% and that of the training component at 61%.
All estimates of local and foreign exchange cost were agreed during loan
negotiations.
4.17       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 46% of expenditures for overlay, resealing and preparatory works
and improvement of physical training facilities (Annex 4);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for direct imports of equipment and
spare parts;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance by
consultants and for training abroad; and
(d) Front-end fee -- the amount due.
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation for all items
except preparatory works, which would be carried out through small-sized
contracts and by MOC force account. In the latter case, disbursement would
be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOE) certified by technical
assistance consultants. The estimated schedule of disbursements shown in
Table 4.4 is based on the disbursement profile for the Fourth Highway
Prolect, which is about 12 months behind schedule.



- 21 -
4.18       Retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures up to a total
of US$0.40 million equivalent for preparatory works (para 4.06) carried out
after April 1, 1983.
D.   Implementation and Procurement
4.19       MOC would be responsible for project execution.    DM, supported by
the Road Planning Unit, would implement the periodic maintenance component of
the project. DEMS would administer the equipment procurement and also play
an important role in the re-establishment of HFS. The Personnel Directorate,
through the Training Unit, together with other Directorates, would be
involved in the implementation of the Training Program.
4.20      The institutional strengthening of MOC through technical assistance
is a key element of the proposed project. In light of the difficulties
experienced in the past in attracting professional staff and filling
counterpart positions, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(i) it would implement its staffing strategy, presented at loan negotiations,
according to which it wishes to attract suitable qualified technical staff
for principal positions; and that (ii) counterpart personnel, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be assigned to the following technical assistance consultants
as a condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan: Program Coordinator,
Highway Planning Engineer and Training Specialist. It was also agreed
between the Government and the Bank that no disbursement would be made for
road maintenance equipment, tools and spare parts from the proceeds of the
loan, unless a counterpart for the Hire Funding Manager, with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, has been appointed.
4.21       The project would be implemented between April 1983 and August 1986
(Table 4.5). Periodic maintenance works and technical assistance, including
the Training Program, would extend over this period, while the procurement of
equipment is expected to be completed by end of 1984.     The implementation
schedule was agreed between the Government and the Bank at loan negotiations.
4.22       The responsibility for the implementation of the periodic mainte-
nance component of the project would be through the County Engineers under
the guidance of the Chief Engineer with the support of the Field Engineers,
Senior Superintendents and Superintendents. The components of the RMP
related to routine operations such as general routine maintenance and pave-
ment patching and rehabilitation would be largely the responsibility of the
Chief Superintendents assisted, on parish level, by the Senior Super-
intendents, Superintendents and Work Overseers.
4.23      The three-phased periodic maintenance program, except for a portion
of preparatory works (para 4.24), would be carried out by contract. Contract
packages for overlay works would cover about 30-50 miles each. Seal and
reseal works, representing a total contract value of about US$9.0 million,
would be grouped into batches covering about 120 miles but broken down to
six contract packages of 15-25 miles each, not exceeding US$0.7 million in
contract price per package. Because of these relatively small contract
sizes, the scattered location and the short sections of the roads involved,
it is considered that periodic maintenance works, with the possible exception
of asphaltic overlay, might not be of interest to foreign contractors. In



- 22 -
the past, some of the overlay works have been delayed, or altogether deleted
from the overlay program, because of poor response from local firms. The
participation of foreign firms in tendering for overlay works is expected to
lead to lower prices through increased competition. Overlay works, having a
contract value of about US$13.0 million, would be open to foreign firms
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980), while contracts for seal
and reseal works would be awarded following domestic procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank, with foreign firms permitted to bid.
4.24      A portion of the preparatory works covering drainage and structural
works and amounting in value to about US$3.5 million is expected to be
carried out by local contractors selected under local procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. However, the remaining portion of the preparatory
works, amounting to about US$7.5 million, and covering pavement repair works
for which the quantities cannot be estimated in advance to required accuracy,
would be carried out under force account by MOC and supervised by the
technical assistance consultant who would also certify the quantity and
quality of work performed. Since local contractors have neither experience
nor equipment, these latter types of works have traditionally been carried
out by MOC's DM, which is considered to be the most effective means of
undertaking them. The extension works of the Tarrants Training Center and
the Kingston Mechanical Apprentice School included in the training component
would be carried out by contract following local competitive bidding.
4.25      The procurement program for vehicles, miscellaneous maintenance
equipment and tools, indicating lot sizes and estimated cost, would be
subject to prior approval by the Bank. Contracts with an estimated cost of
more than US$50,000 each, amounting to US$2.2 million, would be procured
through ICB, following the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement; other contracts
for miscellaneous maintenance equipment, tools and vehicles for the training
program, with an estimated cost below US$50,000 but not exceeding an aggre-
gate of US$500,000, would be procured in accordance with local competitive
tendering procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
4.26      Technical assistance consultants would be selected and engaged
following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
The Bank has agreed that the services of TPOS, the technical assistance
consultants under the ongoing Fourth Highway Project, would be continued
under a new contract for the road-maintenance-related component of the tech-
nical assistance (para 4.09). About 65 man-months would be involved, cover-
ing the services of the Program Coordinator and the Contracts Engineer. In
addition, the services of the Highway Planning Engineer, to be engaged for
six months under the Fourth Highway Loan (para 3.06), would be extended by 24
months under the new contract with TPOS. Timetables and terms of reference
for these as well as other consultant services under the technical assistance
(HFS, Training Program) were agreed between the Government and the Bank at
loan negotiations.
E.   Financial Reporting, Auditing and Monitoring
4.27      MOC would establish and maintain separate project-related accounts
at the parish offices, with responsibilities for consolidation at the project
office under the supervision of the Financial Controller. Such accounts



- 23 -
would be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank to enable MOC to
provide interim and annual financial statements to reflect the progress and
financial performance of the project. The opinion and report, satisfactory
to the Bank, on such statements would be provided by the Auditor General of
Jamaica within seven months of the close of the fiscal year, as from FY
1983/84. The audit report would include a statement on the adequacy of the
accounting system and internal control, on the reliability of SOEs as a basis
for loan disbursement, and on compliance with loan covenants. The foregoing
project accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements were agreed
during loan negotiations.
4.28       The execution of the project would be reviewed through normal
supervision. In particular, the following key indicators would be monitored
to assess the advances made toward the project objectives:
(a) progress of project implementation as compared to implementation
and disbursement schedules (Table 4.5 and Table 4.4);
(b) appointment of foreign consultants, assignment of counterpart staff
and engagement of local staff according to the timetable agreed
between the Bank and the Government at loan negotiations
(paras 4.20 and 4.26);
(c) formulation and implementation of programs by the Road Planning
Unit as outlined in the terms of reference for that Unit (Annex 3);
(d) meeting targets for the re-establishment of HFS as outlined in
paragraph 3.18; and
(e) implementation of the Training Program which would be agreed
between the Government and the Bank after the completion of the
Phase I report (para 4.13).
F.   Summary of Economic Evaluation
4.29       The proposed periodic maintenance works were economically justified
on the basis of lower vehicle operating costs and time savings of road users
resulting from improved surfaces and higher average speeds. Savings from
reductions in accidents were not included in the analysis, and, to the extent
that improved surface conditions improve traffic safety, the estimated
economic rates of return are conservative. The 520 miles of periodic mainte-
nance included in the project have an estimated rate of return well in excess
of 50%. The Phase I periodic maintenance program, which is fully defined
(Tables 4.1 and 4.2), yields a total net present value (NPV) of J$ 118.0 mil-
lion for overlay works and J$ 5.0 million for seal and reseal works at a dis-
count rate of 12%. Benefits resulting from the equipment component of the
proposed project, which represent about 7% of total project cost, have not
been quantified, but the reduction in the average age of the equipment fleet
is expected to increase the efficiency of maintenance operations through a
higher rate of equipment availability and utilization.
4.30       A high proportion of the roads expected to receive surface improve-
ments under the project belong to the tertiary road network which services
rural dwellers. It is expected that producers and consumers of agricultural



- 24 -
goods which are transported on the road system would benefit from the
project. A proportion of the transport cost savings resulting from the
project would also be passed on to bus passengers on the project roads, who
belong mostly to low income groups. It is estimated that the direct
incremental employment generation of the project would entail about 2,000
jobs, of which 1,750 would be filled by unskilled laborers. Details of the
methodology used for the economic evaluation of the project are presented in
Annex 5.
G.   Project Risks
4.31       The problems encountered during the execution of the previous
Bank-financed highway projects shed some light on the risks attached to the
implementation of the proposed project. The highway-maintenance-related
Second and Fourth Highway Projects, in particular, achieved, in physical
terms, considerably less than intended, largely because of the unforeseen
constraints on Jamaica's financial resources during the 1970s. Also, how-
ever, in retrospect, those projects set overly ambitious objectives in rela-
tion to MOC's institutional capabilities and the capacity of the local
contracting industry. In formulating the proposed project, this factor has
been taken into account. The noticeable strengthening of the contracting
industry in recent years (para 3.14), the possible participation of foreign
firms in overlay works (para 4.23), the planned strengthening of the contract
administration of MOC's Directorate of Maintenance (para 3.08), and the
proposed measures for the support of the quarrying and construction indus-
tries (paras 3.12 and 3.14) were considered sufficient assurances for meeting
the periodic maintenance target of the proposed project. Furthermore, the
annual reviews of the subsequent year program under the sectoral concept of
implementation would provide adequate opportunity to identify specific
constraints and to apply corrective measures as necessary.
4.32        In order to reduce the risk of inadequate equipment support, the
procurement of essential maintenance equipment has been included in the
proposed project (para 4.07). Based on past experience, such equipment could
be purchased without undue delay. The risk of not being able to recruit
suitable local staff for newly established posts has been recognized, and MOC
has prepared a recruitment strategy in order to minimize such risk.
Moreover, the Bank would require the assignment of key counterpart staff as a
condition for loan effectiveness (para 4.20). In the light of the above
measures, it is believed that the principal risks would be sufficiently
reduced to allow the project to achieve its set objectives.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)  the implementation of the 1978 Axle Load Control Program,
satisfactory to the Bank, to be continued (para 2.13);
(b)  the current road safetv practices to be reviewed and programs aimed
at improving present road safety operations to be implemented
(para 2.17);



- 25 -
(c) a work program, as set forth in the outline terms of reference for
the Road Planning Unit (para 3.06);
(d)  new positions for a Contracts Engineer and three Field Engineers to
be established in DM (para 3.08);
(e) measures to be taken to secure the timely supply of aggregate in
sufficient quality and quantity (para 3.12);
(f) procedures to be established according to which foreign exchange
would be made available to contractors participating in the RMP for
the purchase of new equipment and spare parts (para 3.14);
(g) a plan to be implemented for the re-establishment of HFS
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.18);
(h) funding for the Road Maintenance Program to be provided in
preference to other highway capital expenditures (para 4.02 (c));
(i) external financing to be sought for the components of the RMP which
are not covered by the proposed loan (para 4.02 (d));
(j) the Bank to be consulted annually concerning budget requirements
for the RMP (para 4.02 (e));
(k) the list of roads to be included in the second and third phases of
the period road maintenance program, together with the economic
justification for their selection, to be submitted to the Bank by
not later than March 31, 1984 and March 31, 1985 respectively
(para 4.03);
(1) an implementation plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to be prepared by
MOC, by not later than February 29, 1984, for carrying out the
training program (para 4.13);
(m) all estimates of local and foreign exchange cost (para 4.16);
(n) a plan, outlining the measures that the Government would take to
attract suitably qualified staff for agreed expansion of MOC and
for counterpart positions (para 4.20);
(o) the implementation schedule for the project (para 4.21);
(p) procurement procedures for equipment (para 4.25);
(q) timetable and terms of reference for the consultant services
(para 4.26); and
(r) annual financial statements on the financial performance of the
project, and opinion and report to be provided by the Auditor
General of Jamaica within seven months of the close of fiscal
year, as from FY 1983184 (para 4.27).



5.02.    The nomination of key counterpart staff would be a condition for
effectiveness of the proposed loan (para 4.20).
5.03      No disbursement would be made for road maintenance equipment,
tools, and spare parts from the proceeds of the loan unless a counterpart for
the Hire Funding Manager, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
the Bank, has been appointed (para 4.20).
5.04      Retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures up to a total
of US$0.4 million equivalent for preparatory works (para 4.18).
5.05.    Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$15.00 million. The terms would be 17 years, including a
four-year grace period.
April 28, 1983



- 27 -
TABLE 2.1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment, by Mode
In Comparison with the Gross Domestic
Product, 1977/78 - 1981/82
(millions of J$)
Transport Sector                1977/78   1978/79   1979/80    1980/81   1981/82
Roads 1/                          38.6      39.1       45.2      60.3      71.5
Railways 2/                        1.3      11.7        2.4       2.7       7.2
Airport Authority 2/ 3/            3.0       5.0       15.4      12.3       9.7
Air Jamaica 3/                     1.1       2.0        1.4       1.6       0.4
Port Authority 3/                  2.3       7.0       17.1      18.1      10.5
Jamaica Omnibus Service 3/         0.2      17.1        6.3       3.0        -
Total                         46.2      81.9      87.8       98.6      99.3
Gross Domestic Product          2994.0    3764.0    4301.0     4757.0    5159.0 /
1/ Includes expenditures by MOW, MLG, Ministry of Agriculture, KSAC.
2/ Adjusted for fiscal year.
3/ Public enterprises.
4/ Figures for calendar year.
Source: Ministry of Finance, Jamaica Railways Corporation, Port Authority
of Jamaica, Airports Authority of Jamaica.
October 1982



- 28 -
TABLE 2.2
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Consumption (1970-1981)
('000 barrels)
Year               Gasoline               Diesel
1970                 1492                  1450
1971                 1659                  1590
1972                1824                   1222
1973                 1963                  1432
1974                 1726                  1353
1975                 1887                  1658
1976                1951                   1559
1977                1818                   1720
1978                 1755                  1479
1979                 1637                  1636
1980                1445                   1372
1981                 1537                  1447
Source: Petroleum Company of Jamaica - Shell Oil Company
October 1982



JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Expendituxes and Road User Contributions to Government Revenues
(1973/74 - 1981/82)
(millions of J$)
1973/74     1974/75      1975/76      1976/77     1977/78 1/      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81     1981/824/
A. Expenditures on Roads
Recurrent                                 9.5       14.0         12.6        16.8         11.4           16.8         11.5         6.0         7.9
Capital                                  12.9       28.3         37.8        43.6         38.6           39.1         45.2        60.3        71.5
Total                           22.4        42.3        50.4         60.4        50.0            55.9         56.7        66.3        79.4
Total USS equivalent 1978 prices         52.0       81.9         87.0        92.5         59.6           33.5         31.2        23.9        27.8
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions to Govt. Revenues
Excise Duty on tubes and tirea2/          -          -            -           -            -              2.6          3.1         4.0          4.7
Import Duty on road motor vehicles!/     13.9       12.4         13.7        21.0         14.1           14.8         13.5        23.0         27.8
Import Duty on tubes and tiresZ/          0.4        0.3          0.3         0.7         n/a             0.7          0.6         0.8          0.8
License Duty on motor vehicles            6.6        6.8          9.4        10.0         12.4           13.9         14.3        12.3         15.7
Excise Duty on motor fuel./               8.7       10.7         38.1        37.6         37.4          105.3         87.0        82.0         78.3
Driver's License Duty                     0.7        0.8          0.9         1.2          1.5            1.3          1.2         1.0          1.3
Total                           30.3        31.0        62.4         70.5         n/a           138.6        119.7       123.1        128.6
Total US$ equivalent 1978 prices         82.1       71.9        120.8       121.7         n/a            83.2         56.3        44.3         45.0
1/ For expenditures, budget figures; for contributions, actual figures.
2/ The contributions of import duty on Road Motor Vehicles and import duty on tubes and tires for the fiscal years 1978/79, 1979/80
and 1980/81 are, in fact, those duties collected for the years 1979, 1980 and 1981 respectively.      The aggregate of License Duty on
Motor Vehicles and of Drivers License duty for the year 1982 is J$17m. The breakdowns given above are estimates.
3/ After 1974/75 includes consumption tax.
4/ All contribution data for 1981/82 are preliminary figures.
Source: Expenditures: Ministry of Finance
Contributions:Ministry of Public Utilities and Transport
October 1982



- 30 -                        TABLE 2.4
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Ministry of Construction (Works) Expenditures on Roads (1978/79-1982/83)
(Millions of J$)
Item                                     1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82    1982/83
Recurrent Expenditures
Road Maintenance                          3.7       3.0       3.9       4.3        4.2
Walls, Bridges & Culverts Maintenance     0.7       0.6       0.9       0.9        0.9
Flood Damage Repairs                      2.4       0.3       0.1       1.0        1.2
Sub-Total                                 6.8       3.9       4.9       6.2        6.3
Capital Expenditures
Main Road Construction and Major
Improvements                             3.3       2.4       1.4       2.7        4.3
Minor Improvements of Main Roads          3.3        -         -         3.0       2.5
Asphalting and Resurfacing!/              1.2        -         -          -         -
Farm Roads                                0.6       0.9       1.0       0.8        1.0
Special Roads2/                           1.4       0.3       0.2        -          -
Secondary Main and Parish Council
Roads (IDB)                              7.7       6.9      11.7       3.6        1.3
Bridges (CIDA) + Local                    2.1       1.0       1.8       1.2        4.1
Flood Damage Preventive Measures          0.5       0.03       -        0.5        0.5
Main Roads Preventive Measures3/           -         -         -        3.0        3.0
Flood Damage Restoration and
Reconstruction (KfW) + Local              -        3.5      12.5       3.1        1.5
Hurricane Damage Restoration and
Reconstruction                            -         -         -         -         1.0
Rural Roads Improvement Program            -         -         -         -        17.0
IBRD Pro ects
- Secondoilghway Project (Loan 899-JM)     2.9       1.1        -         -          -
- Third Highway Project (Loan 1032-JM)     7.2       9.8      11.4       5.8        2.4
- Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1740-JM)     -        2.9       7.3      17.2       14.0
Sub-Total                               30.2      28.8      47.3      40.9      52.6
Total Expenditures                      37.0      32.7      52.2      47.1      58.9
Total, US$ equivalent 1978 prices       22.2      13.8      18.8      16.5      19.0
1/ Reported as Recurrent Expenditure in Ministry of Construction (Works) accounts.
2/ Allocations made under a Government employment program.
:2 Government of Jamaica parallel program to the IBRD-financed Fourth Highway Project.
Source: MOC
April 1983



JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Expenditure on Routine Maintenance 1979/80-1982/831/
(J$ million)
Total
1979/80           1980/81             1981/82             1982(83    -          1979180-1982/83
Schedule Actual   Schedule  Actual   Schedule  Actual    Schddul#/AlIcdAt1on   Schedule  Actual/Allocation
Administration and
Overhead               2.6      2.9       3.5      4.1       4.4      4.0       5.0        5.1        15.5           16.1
Labor                   3.3      2.2       4.8      2.5       6.0      3.0       6.8       2.9         20.9           10.6
Materials               1.2      0.9       1.7      1.0       2.1      1.0       2.2        1.0         7.2            3.9
Equipment Operation
and Spares             1.9     1.2        2.2      1.4       2.6      1.3       2.9       1.2          9.6            5.1
Emergency Repairs       1.8     0.4        2.2      0.1       2.7      1.1       3.0       1.2          9.7            2.8
Total      10.8     7.6      14.4       9.1      17.8     10.4      19.9      11.4        62.9            38.5
1/ The indicated schedule of funds was expected to be provided by the Government for the purpose of carrying out routine and
emergency maintenance of the road network. (Supplemental Letter July 10, 1979, Loan 1740-JM.) The June 1979 constant
prices were inflated by factors of 1.04, 1.35, 1.66 and 1.86 for FYs 1979/80, 1980/81, 1981/82 and 1982/83, respectively,
to current prices.
Source: MOC
October 1982
tT
M-



- 32 -                                TABLE 4.1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Phase I Overlay Program
Road Name                       AADT            Length (Miles)           Net Present Value
(J$ million)
St. Catherine Parish
Bamboo to Spanish Town           2500                1.20                       7.12
Twickenham to Angels             8000                2.70                        9.99
Spanish Town to Port Henderson    940                2.10                       3.72
St. Andrew Parish
Turn Bridge to Santa Maria       2770                1.40                        7.77
Stony Hill to Tom's River        2290                1.10                       5.06
Constant Spr. to Stony Hill      4185                3.10                       4.92
Rockfort to Harbour View         7500                3.10                        1.35
Westmoreland Parish
Ferris Cross-Mackfield           1290                2.40                       6.60
Scotts Cove-Smithfield Br.       2100                2.30                       5.48
Bartletts-Little London           500                6.30                       8.01
St. Elizabeth Parish
Pedro Cross-Junction-Lititz       830                8.40                       17.00
Luana-Black River-Scotts Cove    1140                5.80                       4.41
St. James Parish
Great River to Montego Bay       4800                1.00
Barnett to Adelphi               1490                5.40                        10.66
Montego Bay to Pillars           8245                1.30                        12.04
1.00
Trelawny Parish
Falmouth to Springvale           1666                5.90                        8.95
Hanover Parish
Mackfield to Shettlewood         1080                5.90                        3.70
Total                                  59.40                      117.78
Source: TPOS Study
April 1983



- 33 -                                    TABLE 4.2
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Phase I Reseal and Seal Program
Roads Name                         AADT      Reseal (Hiles)        Seal (Miles)            Net Present Value
J$('000)
St. Catherine Parish
Worthy Park to Bamboo              500            12.70                                        803
St. Thomas Parish
Potosi to Morant River Br.         200            7.50                                          86
Style Hut to Centre Cut            340            0.20                 -                         4
Morant Bay to Wilmington           190             1.70               1.60                      26
Portland Parish
Breastworks to Windsor             415            4.60                 -                       46
Buff Bay to Whitehall              150             -                 0.70                        4
St. Mary Parish
Claremont to Chovey                700            4.70                 -                       496
Port Maria to Islington           1050            0.20                 -                       38
Port Maria to Islington            660            3.50                 -                       403
Union Hill to Oracabessa           470            5.80                 -                        37
St. Ann Parish
Brown's Town to Endeavour          300            1.00                 -                      202
Claremont to Harmony Vale          510            1.10                 -                       173
Claremont to Harmony Vale          630            0.50                 -                       76
White River to Newstead Br.        500             1.00                -                       103
Bamboo to Priory                   430            6.10                 -                      633
Davis Town to Golden Grove         450            2.40                 -                      232
Stewart Town-Discovery Bay         400            1.40                 -                      133
Alexandria to Ballentoy            500            2.20                 -                      194
St. Elizabeth Parish
Mid. Quarters-N. Market-J. Gat     475            7.60                 -                      504
Westmoreland Parish
Negril to Negril Lighthouse        420            1.80                 -                       98
Clarendon Parish
Danks to Sour Sop Turn             975             1.30                -                       183
Chesterfield  to Rocky Point       350            5.10                 -                       201
Jacob Hut to Fogah                 500             1.30                -                         9
Trelawny Parish
Troy to Albert Town                300            9.90                                         101
St. Andrew Parish
Redligh To Harwar Gap              200            6.20                                         126
Mount Airy to Golden Spring        200            5.20                -                        39
Hanover Parish
Hopewell to Haughton Grove         330              -               0.40                        24
Hopewell to Haughton Grove         440             5.90               -                         37
Totals                     100.00              2.70                     5011
Source: TPOS Study
October 1982



-. 34 -TABLE 4.3
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment
Tools and Spare Parts1/
(J$ at October 1982 Prices)
No. of         Cost per
Item                                    Units           Unit         Total
Back hoe                                  5            75,000       375,000
Dump trucks                              40            60,000     2,400,000
Utility vehicles (four-wheel drive)      22            28,000       616,000
Pickups                                  25            17,000       425,000
Pedestrian Vibrating rollers             25            10,000       250,000
Vibrating Plate Compactors               20             2,700        54,000
Tailgate Chipping Spreaders              10             7,650        76,500
Bitumen Emulsion Sprayers                25             1,800        45,000
Workshop Toolsi/                                                    200,000
Spare parts (about 12% of
equipment cost)                                                    518,500
4,960,000
1/ Includes the following units for training purposes:
1 back hoe, 2 dump trucks, 2 pedestrian vibrating rollers,
3 vibrating plate rollers, 1 tailgate chipping spreader,
3 bitumen emulsion sprayers.
2/ For 12 parish workshops, including items such as com-
pressors, battery chargers, greasing units, jacks, tire
repair equipment, drills and grinding machines.
Source: TPOS Study and MOC
April 1983



- 35 -                               TABLE 4.4
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(US$ million)
Quarterly                 Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year        Disbursements               Amount             Cumulative as
Bank Loan Cofinancer   Bank Loan Cofinancer Total   % of Total
1984
September 1983          0.7        _          0.7        -       0.7         3
December 1983           1.1        -          1.8        -       1.8         8
March 1984              1.3        -          3.1        -       3.1        13
June 1984               1.0       0.7         4.1       0.7      4.8        20
1985
September 1984         1.2        0.8         5.3      1.5       6.8        29
December 1984           1.8       1.2         7.1       2.7      9.3        41
March 1985              1.3       0.9         8.4       3.6     12.0        51
June 1985              1.1        0.8         9.5      4.4      13.9        59
1986
September 1985         0.8       0.6         10.3      5.0     15.3         64
December 1985          0.8        0.6        11.1      5.6      16.7        70
March 1986             0.7        0.5        11.8      6.1      17.9        75
June 1986              0.7        0.5        12.5      6.6     19.1         80
1987
September 1986         0.7       0.5         13.2      7.1     20.3         85
December 1986          0.7       0.5         13.9      7.6     21.5         90
March 1987             0.6        0.5        14.5      8.1     22.6         95
June 1987              0.5       0.4         15.0      8.5     23.5        100
Assumptions:
Cofinancing commences in fourth quarter 1984.
Loan Signature     : June 1983
Loan Effectiveness: September 1983
Loan Closing Date : June 30, 1987
Time overrun on periodic maintenance: 9 months
Disbursement lag expenditures        : 3 months
Source: Mission estimates
April 1983.



JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementatlon Schedule
1983               1984               1985              4986
PROJECT ITEM-                          -        -    -
FFMAMJI JASM _ JJFMAM       JAS OND JFM AMJJAS OND JFM AMJ JAS ONt
A LOAN EFFECTlY_
B. OVERLAY WORIkS
1 Prect,uolinotion Bidding
& Controct, Awards
2ConstiuctionI
3 Preparatory Work
C SEAUNG & RES%A1NG
1 Prequalfication Bidding
& Con1trct A-words
2 Constn,ctionr_                               ttttt         _   __       _ttt 
3 Preparctir  Works
D E4OUIPMENT PROCUREMENT               _
E TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE &
%NNINCO
SoUrce' MCC & Misson Estimates
October 1982                                                                                 Wortd Ennk-24?73



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Past Bank Assistance in The Highway Subsector
1.        The Bank, so far, has financed four highway projects in Jamaica.
The First Highway Project (Loan 408-JM, US$5.5 million, April 1965) was for
detailed engineering and construction of main arterial roads. The Second
Highway Project (Loan 899-JM, US$9.3 million, May 1973) was for road
maintenance. The Third Highway Project (Loan 1032-JM, US$13.5 million, June
1974) was for construction of about 20 miles of arterial roads. The Fourth
Highway Project (Loan 1740-JM, US$16.0 million, June 1979) provided support
for the Five-Year Road Maintenance Program 1979/80-1983/84.
2.         The Bank's First Highway Project was for detailed engineering and
construction, including supervision of 23 miles of four-lane and four miles
of two-lane roads. Eight miles of the four-lane road section, however, were
subsequently deleted from the project as a result of increased costs, caused
mainly by an under-estimation of costs at appraisal because of the
preliminary nature of the engineering on which the costs were based.
Execution of the project was delayed because of difficulties in right-of-way
acquisition, unsatisfactory performance of subcontractors, problems in
relocation of public utilities and inter-union labor disputes, resulting in
the contractor claiming frustration of contract and abandoning work after 90%
completion. The contractor's claims were settled through arbitration, and
the work was satisfactorily completed by force account. The Project
Completion Report was issued in January 1975 and the Project Performance
Audit Report in July 1975; both stress the importance of detailed engineering
before project appraisal (now a standard practice in the Region).
3.         The Second Highway Project comprised: (a) resurfacing of 440 miles
of road with asphaltic overlay and resealing of 250 miles of roads with a
double surface treatment; (b) procurement of maintenance equipment; and
(c) technical assistance by consultants to supervise the overlay and
resealing, assist in the procurement of maintenance equipment, introduce
costing and better planning of maintenance operations, and provide training
to DM staff. The bituminous overlay works proved far more costly than
estimated at appraisal, and only 210 of the planned 440 miles were
completed. Of the 250 miles scheduled for reseal, 240 miles were completed.
MOW's capacity as a road maintenance organization was improved, a Maintenance
Manual was prepared, and budgeting and costing procedures were introduced.
Some US$2.6 million worth of maintenance equipment was purchased, and an
equipment Hire Funding Scheme was introduced under the Loan. However,
because of an inadequate accounting system and lack of Government support,
the Scheme did not evolve, as anticipated, into a self-financing fund for
purchase of equipment and spare parts. Despite the fact that only about half
of the overlay works were completed, the project was successful in improving



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
maintenance standards by eliminating part of the backlog of periodic
maintenance work. The Project Completion Report, issued in September 1979,
states that the project highlights two important factors: (a) that any
future Bank-financed project should be part of an agreed long-term road
maintenance program; and (b) that followup projects should be planned with
some degree of overlapping so that Bank participation in the country's road
maintenance effort and, more important, in its institutional development
would be continuous. These considerations were taken into account in the
preparation of the Fourth Highway Project as well as the proposed project.
4.         The Third Highway Project comprised: (a) construction of about
20 miles of new two-lane arterial road; (b) construction of five secondary
access roads totaling about 3.2 miles; (c) procurement and installation of
four weigh bridges; and (d) consulting services for supervision of works
under (a) and (b) and for assistance in transport planning. The project also
included technical assistance to aid the local contracting industry financed
by UNDP and technical assistance for pavement design and performance evalua-
tion financed by the British Government. The project encountered substantial
time delays and, mainly because of them, some cost increases. These problems
stemmed mostly from unresponsive bids on one road section and a contractor
failure on another, mostly due to unexpected major inflation and serious
labor problems. As a result, MOW undertook to carry out a substantial
portion of the works by force account. However, equipment and staffing
shortages, combined with continuous labor problems, allowed only very slow
progress, and construction was completed more than three years later than
scheduled at appraisal. The Project Completion Report, issued on
December 31, 1981, concludes that MOW was able to produce a good quality
output under extremely difficult financial circumstances and with its
resources overtaxed by the unplanned construction, by force account teams, of
most of the civil works elements of the project.
5.         The Fourth Highway Project consists of:   (a) asphaltic overlay,
resealing and rehabilitation of about 470 miles of roads; (b) acquisition of
about 194 units of road maintenance equipment; (c) spare parts for equipment
rehabilitation and tools for workshops; (d) technical assistance for project
execution; and (e) consulting services for the non-urban traffic study. The
overlay, resealing and rehabilitation works were intended to cover the major
portion of the periodic maintenance works during the first three years of the
Five-Year Road Improvement and Maintenance Program (1979/80-1983/84). The
remaining periodic maintenance and routine maintenance works of the Program
were planned for implementation under Government finance. However, by
mid-1980, it became clear that, because of severe Government budget
constraints, the scope of works was too ambitious. As a result, the project
was reassessed, and only 50% of the overlay program and 85% of the reseal
program are being achieved. More seriously, however, there has been a large
shortfall in routine maintenance operations, and, also, the overlay of 20
miles and resealing of 220 miles of roads scheduled for financing by the
Government under the overall program has been deferred. These shortfalls are
somewhat compensated for by the originally unscheduled rehabilitation of



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
about 440 miles of roads, 260 miles under the Project and 180 miles from
Government funds. Reseal and rehabilitation works are substantially
completed, and still outstanding overlay works on about eight miles are
expected to be completed by the end of August 1983. Other components of the
project such as procurement of equipment and spares, rehabilitation of
equipment and training of DM staff have also been completed, although both
the equipment rehabilitation and training programs fell somewhat short of the
original objectives. There has also been less-than-expected progress on
maintenance management and operation of the Hire Funding Scheme. These
matters would receive increased attention under the proposed Highway
Maintenance Project. Although the project would be completed with one year
delay in August 1983, after the initial setback, it has proceeded reasonably
well and helped to maintain the focus on maintenance of the country's main
road network.
April 1983



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Transport Sector: Background
A. The Transport System
(i) Roads
1.        The roads subsector is treated in detail in Chapters II and III of
the Appraisal Report.
(ii) Railways
2.        The public railway system is operated by the Jamaican Railway
Corporation (JRC). It consists of a main line running diagonally across the
island from Kingston to Montego Bay (112 miles) and a branch line from
Spanish Town northward to Annotto Bay and then eastward along the coast to
Port Antonio. The bauxite mining companies own and operate their own railway
lines, but they also utilize the public system. Bauxite, alumina and
materials associated with that industry represented about 95% of JRC's total
freight in 1978. This freight traffic reached a peak of about 5 million tons
in 1974, then fell to a low of 3.1 million tons in 1976 as bauxite exports
declined because of soft world markets, reduced competitiveness due to a
Government levy introduced in 1974, and labor problems. In 1977, this
traffic started to recover somewhat, and, in 1981, 3.3 million tons were
transported. Total freight traffic declined by 33% from 1974 to 88.5
ton-miles in 1981, while journeys by passengers declined from a peak of
2 million in 1977 to about 0.9 million in 1981.
3.        In general, JRC passenger fares and freight rates have not been set
upon the basis of the cost of services or upon the actual willingness to pay
for those services. In many cases, fares and rates are significantly lower
than cost or demand considerations would dictate. Prior to 1975, passenger
fares had not changed significantly for nearly 40 years. From 1977 to the
end of 1980, passenger fares doubled (while overall transportation costs
increased by 150% over the same period). Cabinet approval is necessary for
changing passenger fares and less-than-carload freight rates. The JRC Board
of Directors' proposals concerning rate changes are generally approved with
some delay, which, under inflationary conditions, is equivalent to a rate
reduction. JRC has more flexibility in establishing carload rates, as well
as the rates it charges the aluminum companies.
4.         Throughout its history, JRC has operated with working deficits.
Although, in the early 1970s, these deficits were not serious enough to be



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
considered a major financial burden to the Government, the situation has
deteriorated dramatically. In 1981 JRC's operating deficit reached
J$ 4.8 million, and the Corporation appears today to be totally insolvent,
with a current ratio of 0.4:1. Losses are mainly incurred on the lines
serving passenger and general merchandise traffic.
5.        A recently completed study of the Modal Distribution of Non-Urban
Traffic (Delcanda Int., Canada, March 1982), financed under Loan 1740-JM,
recommends a "core" network consisting of those sections serving bauxite and
alumina traffic, and an "extension" service between Kingston and Montego Bay
for passengers and freight which, if rehabilitated, could become financially
viable. To this end, the consultants proposed a minimum investment program
amounting to J$ 14.0 million. A railway financial expert has been recruited
under the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan (Loan 2106-JM) to draw up an
action plan for rationalizing rail services, including the restructuring of
JRC's finances, determination of cost, appropriate tariff adjustments and
closure of uneconomic lines.
(iii) Ports and Shipping
6.        Jamaica currently has 13 ports in operation, which handled 13.4
million tons of cargo in 1981. Kingston, situated on the world's seventh
largest natural harbor, is Jamaica's most important port. It offers a large
area of navigable water and has a channel and berth depth of 40 feet. The
construction of a container transshipment terminal, nine break-bulk wharves,
roll-on/roll-off facilities and cruise ship piers, completed in 1978, has
transformed the port into a modern, efficient and profitable operation. It
has become a major transshipment point for the Europe-Orient trade through
the Panama Canal. In 1980, the port handled about 67% of the cargo vessels
using the Jamaican ports. Traffic in these ports was substantially reduced
in 1976 because of import restrictions, and total tonnage handled in 1981 was
at the same level as in 1977. However, the container/transshipment movement
at the port of Kingston increased by almost 100% in 1977 and remained at high
levels in subsequent years. The creation of a Kingston Freeport Zone in
1980, which offers exemption from duty on materials imported for processing
and reexport, has also attracted new traffic.
7.        The Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ) has total control only over the
port of Kingston. While it sets port tariffs for all Jamaican ports, it
cannot control investment in other public and private ports. The existing
capacity for the main country exports is adequate, and no future capacity
constraints are foreseen for the next five years at least.
8.         The Jamaican Merchant Marine (JMM) was established in 1976 as
Jamaica's national shipping company. Until very recently, the JMM fleet
consisted totally of chartered vessels; in 1981, with a view to reducing its
dependence on foreign ships, JMM developed a vessel acquisition program. A
bulk carrier and a roll-on/roll-off vessel have already been delivered.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
(iv) Air Transport
9.        Air transport is served by two international airports as well as by
several small domestic airports and airstrips. The two international
airports are at Montego Bay, which serves the north coast and specializes in
tourist traffic, and at Kingston, which serves Jamaica's southern coast and
caters mainly to business and other non-tourist travel. The rapid increase
in air traffic in the early 1970s exerted considerable pressure on these
facilities. A Bank project (Loan 1043-JM) financed the improvement of the
operational capacity and levels of service at the two international airports,
as well as technical assistance to improve management systems and planning.
The project was completed in late 1980, and, as a result, the airports are
adequate to handle expected traffic growth. Except for the possible
extension of the Montego Bay runway and the purchase of navigational aids for
both airports, no major investments will be necessary to handle the traffic
expected in the foreseeable future.
10.       Traffic flows in both airports started to decline in 1975 because
of the stagnation of the Jamaican economy and the reduction in tourism. This
situation was reversed in 1978, and, in 1980, traffic reached the 1974
levels. The sluggish traffic seriously affected the Airport Authority of
Jamaica's (AAJ) financial performance; in 1981, AAJ had an operating deficit
of J$ 1.1 million. Although the airport departure tax was recently increased
from J$ 8 to J$ 10 per passenger, AAJ's financial situation has not been
affected, since its share remains at J$ 1 while the balance goes to the
Government's general revenue. Landing fees were increased in January 1983 by
12%, but throughput fuel was reduced from 4t to 3 a gallon. A determined
effort by the Tourist Board, together with AAJ's aggressive management, is
expected to help improve the company's financial position.
11.       Air Jamaica, Jamaica's international airline, was created with the
participation of Air Canada in 1968 and is now wholly owned by the Jamaican
Government. Its financial performance since the mid-1970s, as measured by
operating profits before depreciation and interest expense, weakened in 1979,
deteriorated badly in 1980, and continued to be depressed through 1981.
Operating losses in 1980 and 1981, before depreciation, were J$ 21.5 and
J$ 13.8 million respectively, as compared with an operating profit of
J$ 15.7 million in 1978.
12.       The poor financial results have been caused by a number of
problems, including large fuel price increases, slow tourist traffic growth,
low aircraft utilization, and increased competition from scheduled and
chartered aircraft, which contributed to low yields and poor load factors.
Since 1981, Air Jamaica has followed an action plan with the primary
objective of restoring its financial viability through the rationalization of
its route structure, the discontinuation of unprofitable routes and attendant
cost reduction measures, including staff reductions. The company is also
attempting to sell its D-8 aircraft and phase out the use of DC-9 aircraft,



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
and plans to acquire two used A-300 airbus aircrafts in a move to increase
the efficiency of its fleet. Despite these moves, Air Jamaica's financial
situation continues to be difficult, mainly because of increased competition
from North American carriers, which has caused the airline to offer
promotional fares, thereby increasing break-even load factors. Air Jamaica
should continue its cost control program and its review of routes in order to
eliminate the unprofitable ones. Additional efforts toward improving
cooperation between Air Jamaica and the Government's tourist promotion
agencies should also be made.
April 1983



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the
Road Planning Unit
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the Road Planning Unit (RPU) will be:
(a) to develop criteria for the selection of roads on technical
and economic grounds, for all road construction, improvement
and maintenance programs to be executed by the Ministry of
Construction (Works) (MOC);
(b) to develop a systematic approach to investment planning for
the road subsector in accordance with appropriate technical
and economic criteria;
(c) to develop a national road classification system embracing
all roads on the island;
(d) to prepare detailed proposals for the establishment of
a single Island Road Authority; and
(e) to develop new systems and/or upgrade existing systems
in order to plan, monitor and report effectively on the
progress of all MOC road programs.
Main Tasks
2.        In connection with the ongoing and planned projects, the main tasks
of the RPU will include, but will not necessarily be limited to:
(a) annual updating of data relevant to the calculation of
economic costs such as price indices, taxes, etc.;
(b) annual updating of unit costs of construction,
including the foreign and local cost component;
(c) collection and analysis of data relating to traffic flows;
road user costs including vehicle operating costs, time costs
and accident costs; road user charges; traffic loading;
deflection measurements; skid resistance properties; recurrent
accident locations; and the axle load control program;



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) annual updating of road condition survey data for
RMP and RRIP and training of field staff in this work;
(e) a review of existing road classification systems employed
by the various agencies to which the maintenance of roads
is entrusted and the development of a National Classification
System to embrace all roads;
(f) preparation of an inventory of all roads in the country;
(g) preparation of proposals for the establishment of a Single
Road Authority in light of the findings of a review of the
existing operational, organizational and budgetary
arrangements, and the division of responsibility for road
maintenance between MOC and other public entities such as
MLG and MA;
(h) in the context of the findings and proposals arising from
(a) through (g) preceding, development of investment planning
criteria for the road subsector in accordance with
appropriate technical and economic criteria and
consistent with the macro-economic plan and national road
policies;
(i) the further development and refinement of the planning
system and computer programs used for the selection
of roads for periodic maintenance under RMP, including:
(i) rationalization of the existing road control sections
and the establishment of permanent subsections;
(ii) determination of the relationship between "patching
required" and "surface roughness"; and
(iii) expanding the capability of the system to enable
optimization of the recommended periodic maintenance
program.
(j) based on (i), the development of the subsequent phases of
the periodic maintenance program, including road selection and
economic justification;
(k) providing assistance for the establishment of a system for the
selection of roads to be included in the RRIP second year
(1983/84) work program;



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(1) providing assistance for the design of a planning system for
RRIP, including the computer applications which are envisaged
and the preparation of an appropriate economic methodology;
the Unit will also be responsible for the implementation,
continuing operation and refinement of the system;
(m)  based on (1) preceding, the development of the third and
fourth year programs for RRIP, including road selection and
economic justification;
(n) the planning, coordination and monitoring of the main
road reconstruction and major improvements and the intensive
patching and rehabilitation programs;
(o) the further development and refinement of the existing
road construction and maintenance management systems,
e.g., the Construction Management Information-System
(CMIS), the Routine Maintenance Allocation system,
RMCS, and ROMGRAM;
(p) the design and introduction of new or modified planning,
monitoring, management information and reporting systems
as necessary;
(q) with the support of ITA and TAA, the review of current road
safety practices and the formulation of specific programs for
improving present road safety operations; and
(r) the preparation of such future highway work programs as
the Government may deem necessary.
3.         Staffing
Initially, the RPU will be staffed by the following professionals:
MOC Personnel (Permanent)
1 Unit Chief, Highway Planning Engineer
1 Transportation Economist
1 Systems Analyst
Support staff including data processing, secretarial and clerical
staff



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Internationally Recruited
1 Highway Planning Engineer (30 months)
1 Transportation Economist (24 months)
1 Transportation Economist for RRIP (18 months)
I Systems Analyst (24 months)
4.         Schedule for Establishment
The Unit commenced operation in April 1983 and is expected to be
fully established by September 1, 1983.
5.        Time Targets
RPU will prepare and submit reports on each of the following
subject areas by the dates indicated:
Annual RMP Work Program             October 1, 1983, 1984 and 1985
Annual RRIP Work Program            October 1, 1983, 1984 and 1985
Annual Patching and
Rehabilitation Program            October 1, 1983, 1984 and 1985
National Road Classification
System                          March 1, 1984
All Island Road Inventory           June 1, 1984
Refinement of Construction and
Maintenance Management Systems January 1, 1984
Proposals for Establishment of
a Single Road Authority          March 1, 1984
Road Safety Improvement Program     July 1, 1984
6.         Progress Reporting
RPU will prepare quarterly reports outlining the progress of the
works being undertaken with respect to each of the above and other related
matters. The first of such reports will cover the period April 1 to June 30,
1983 and will become due on July 31, 1983; subsequent reports will be
submitted no later than the last day of the month following the end of each
succeeding quarter.
7.         Such reports will give a brief status report on each of the activi-
ties of the Unit and indicate any areas of particular difficulties that may
have been identified. Further, the reports will highlight any delays
envisaged and proposed remedial action as well as recommendations, and detail
the Unit's proposed work program for the ensuing three months.
April 1983



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Training Program
1.        Over the next four years, MOC intends to broaden its training
activities, for which assistance would be provided under the proposed
project. According to recent estimates, about 1,700 MOC staff would need to
undergo either formal or in-service training; about 770 of them would be road
and equipment maintenance personnel (Table 1 of this annex).
2.        The Training Program would be divided into two phases.     In Phase I,
the training needs would be more closely identified, staff to be trained
would be selected and training programs would be planned while, under
Phase II, the program would be implemented in accordance with a schedule to
be recommended under Phase I and agreed between the Government and the Bank.
3.        The Program would be coordinated by the Training Unit and would
broadly include:
(a) expansion of MOC's Training Unit through the engagement/
assignment of three additional training officers and
supporting staff;
(b) engaging, under the technical assistance, of:
(i)  a foreign training specialist for 24 months;
(ii) a foreign instructor (accounting/auditing) for 12 months;
(iii) a foreign road superintendent for 12 months; and
(iv) local instructors (road maintenance, mechanical
workshops) for 96 man-months.
(c) extension of physical training facilities at the Tarrants
Training Center and the Kingston mechanical apprentice school;
(d) improving courses for work overseers by:
(i) revising the syllabi presently used; and
(ii) establishing a mobile Road Training Production Unit
(RTPU) for the combined practical training of overseers,
equipment operators and mechanics.



- 49 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(e) training of workshop mechanics;
(f) purchase of training equipment, including audio-visual
training aids;
(g) organization of seminars for middle and high-level
maintenance staff;
(h) conducting of training courses for accounting and auditing
staff; and
(i) training abroad of training officers and technical personnel.
4.         Although MOC's Training Unit would be assisted by the training
specialist in expanding training activities throughout the Ministry, the
proposed project would primarily support the road-maintenance-related
training needs. Upon completion of theoretical training at the Tarrants
Training Center, work overseers, equipment operators and drivers would be
assigned to RTPU and would be trained under actual working conditions.
Mechanics would be trained at the main regional workshops and would work on
the repair of road maintenance equipment. Seminars on different topics
related to maintenance management would be conducted periodically for middle-
and high-level staff.
5.        The estimated cost of the Training Program is J$ 2.31 million
(US$1.25 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$0.77 million
(Table 2 of this annex).
April 1983



ANNEX 4
- 50-                                Table 1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Road and Equipment Maintenance
Personnel to be Trained
Category                                No.
Headquarters/Administration
Senior Staff                                        6
Areas & Counties
Senior Executive Engineers                            3
Accountant III                                        6
Senior Superintendents                                6
Parish Offices
Accountants II & III                                 15
Senior Superintendents and
Superintendents                                   16
Divisions
Works Overseers (Sr. II, I)                         200
Skilled Personnel
Drivers I, II                                       120
Equipment Operators                                100
Subtotal                                      472
DEMS
Accountants                                          30
Storekeepers                                        23
Equipment Operators                                 18
Mechanic Inspectors                                   9
Mechanics                                           200
Subtotal                                      300
TOTAL                                         772
Source: MOC and mission estimate



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Training Program
(J$'000)
Foreign as
Local    Foreign    Total     % of Total
1. Improvement of Physical Training
Facilities at Tarrants Training
Center and Mechanical Apprentice
School                               56.0      48.0     104.0        46%
2. Purchase of Training Equipment
and Materialsl/                      21.0     157.0     178.0        88%
3. Training Personnel:
a. Foreign
Training Specialist 24 months     118.0     470.0    588.0         80%
Instructor; Accounting/Auditing
12 months              59.0     235.0    294.0         80%
Superintendent; Roads
12 months              44.0     178.0    222.0         80%
b. Local
4 Instructors (96 man-months)     192.0       -      192.0          -
4. Training Abroad:
10 Technical Personnel                10.0     254.0    264.0         96%
4 Training Officers
(US$10,000/3 month and
J$ 1,000/Return Trip)
5. Local Transport (1 car, 2 mini buses) 8.5       62.5      71.0        88%
6. Per Diem While on Training           450.0       -       405.0         -
(J$ 10 x 450 person x 90 days)
Total Base Costs (October 1982       913.5   1,404.5  2,318.0         61%
prices)
1/ Includes audio-visual equipment, technical publications; spare parts and tools
for training of mechanics. Road Maintenance equipment to be procured for
training purposes is listed in Table 4.3.
Source: MOC and Mission Estimates



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A.   Formulation of the Road Improvement and Rehabilitation Program
1.         Consultants T.P.O'Sullivan (UK), who prepared and assisted in the
implementation of the 1979/80-1983/84 Road Improvement and Maintenance
Program, were commissioned by MOC to develop a follow-on program for the
period 1983/84-1986/87. The resulting studies, completed in November 1982,
include the economic confirmation of the subprojects to be implemented in
Phase I, and the preliminary evaluation of the subsequent phases of the
periodic road maintenance component of the program. The overall program
shows an estimated economic rate of return above 50%.
(i) Methodology for the Formulation of the Program
2.        The three-phased periodic road maintenance program was developed in
a recursive manner. The first step was a preliminary selection of roads
based on a road condition survey carried out by the consultants on about
2,900 miles of roads maintained by MOC. During the survey, the consultants
assessed the road surface roughness (verified at random with the help of a
vehicle-mounted bump-integrator) and, based on traffic levels, identified the
routine, periodic and rehabilitative maintenance work required for each road
section. The actions recommended by the consultants were subject to
cost-benefit analysis and were reviewed by MOC's Chief Superintendents,
Senior Superintendents and, in most cases, the Superintendents of each parish
concerned; when necessary, they were revised to take local factors into
consideration. The resulting program was then economically evaluated and
ranked according to its net present value (NPV) and further changes made in
the light of perceived physical constraints. Where appropriate, the effects
of delaying or bringing forward an action were considered.
3.        The economic evaluation of the periodic maintenance works (overlay
and reseal) was based on the assumption that, if the project works were
implemented, the roads would be restored to a higher level of serviceability
and a lower rate of deterioration (para 4). This "with" project case is
compared to a "without" project case, in which the roads receive only the
current low levels of routine maintenance and continue to deteriorate at a
higher rate during the lifetime of the project, considered in this case to be
ten years.   Quantifiable benefits to be derived from the overlay and reseal
works are:
(a) vehicle operating cost savings through the improvement of road
condition (para 7); and



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
(b) passenger time savings through the reduction of travel time
(para 9).
(ii) Road Deterioration Model
4.         The data gathered during the road condition survey (para 2)
provided the basic information from which the consultants developed their
road deterioration model:
(a) the road condition measured as its degree of "patchingness,"
i.e., the percentage of the road requiring patching in order
to achieve a certain level of serviceability;
(b) the pavement surface roughness; and
(c) the age of the pavement.
Using this information, the consultants developed relationships among
pavement patching requirements, surface roughness, and age. Since it was
evident from these relationships that age only partially explained the degree
of "patchingness" or the roughness of a road, the consultants divided the
roads under study into five categories, according to observed variations in
deterioration rates (category 1 roads being those with the slowest rate of
deterioration). Age versus roughness relationships for each of the five road
categories were developed. The rates of deterioration given by these models
are very conservative, the underlying assumption being that if a pavement had
deteriorated up to the time it was inspected at a particular average annual
rate, that pavement would deteriorate at the same rate after the inspection.
In practice, the rate of deterioration tends to increase with the age of the
pavement. The above-mentioned relationships were utilized to determine
roughness and deterioration rates with and without the proposed maintenance
actions. For a "with" project case, it was assumed that the effect of
resealing or overlaying a pavement would be to improve its category by one.
This results in:
(a) a reduction in roughness which is dependent upon the age of
the pavement; and
(b) a reduction in the rate at which the pavement deteriorates and
roughness increases in the future.
(iii) Traffic Volumes and Vehicle Operating Costs
5.        The principal benefits from the proposed periodic maintenance work
would be derived from vehicle operating cost savings. The consultants,
during the road condition survey, carried out "moving-observer" traffic
counts on every road control section. In addition, between May and



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
September of 1982, MOC undertook a comprehensive program of 12-hour counts at
most of the junctions of the main roads network. Cars accounted for about
50% of the traffic, pickups and minibuses for 25%, buses 2% and .rucks 23%.
6.        Although the yearly traffic counts carried out by MOC give a fairly
clear indication of how the traffic flowed throughout the island, it is not
possible to discern from the figures any regular pattern of traffic growth
over the last decade.   Up to 1974, traffic was growing at a steady rate of
about 8% per annum. Between 1974 and 1978, traffic fluctuated without
following any clear pattern. There was an erratic rise to a peak in 1976,
but this was soon followed by a sharp fall. By 1978, predictions of zero
growth were being made for the following five years. Then, conditions in
Jamaica worsened, and the figures for 1979 showed that traffic had actually
decreased by 16% between 1978 and 1979. Since 1979, as a result of the
Government's relaxation of vehicle import controls, there has been a large
influx of vehicles, so that the decrease, which continued for some time into
1980, now appears to have been halted and is at present being reversed. The
oil companies' recent forecasts of fuel consumption, usually a reliable proxy
for traffic growth, indicate a slight decrease of 1% per annum in their sales
of petrol over the next five years and an increase of about 4% per annum in
their sales of diesel. For the purpose of the economic analysis of the
proposed project, the consultants, taking into consideration a projected rate
of GNP growth of about 2% per annum (which is compatible with the projected
fuel sales), assumed that traffic would grow at 3% per year during the
lifetime of the project.   Sensitivity analysis shows that the economic
viability of the project is not affected by a more pessimistic assumption of
zero traffic growth (para 13).
7.        Table 1 of this annex provides summary information on operating
costs for six vehicle types: cars, pickups, minibuses, medium trucks, heavy
trucks and buses. The consultants based their calculation of vehicle
operating costs on the TRRL study carried out in St. Lucia 1/, an eastern
Caribbean island with topography and road characteristics similar to those of
Jamaica. The particular relationships studied in St. Lucia were those
relating vehicle speeds and fuel consumption to the geometric characteristics
and surface condition of the roads.
8.         Some of the components of vehicle operating costs have risen
substantially in recent years, particularly labor. This is the result of the
severe limitation of imports of new cars since 1976 and the poor availability
of spare parts due to the tight foreign exchange situation, which requires
substantial additional labor to be devoted to more intensive maintenance
operations.
1/   Vehicle Operating Costs in the Caribbean:    An Experimental Study of
Vehicle Performance by G. Morosins and S.W. Abaynayaka - TRRL Laboratory
Report 1056.



- 55 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
9.         The benefits from reduction in the accident rate that would result
from improved surface conditions have not been quantified and are not
reflected in the estimated economic return of the project. Allowance was
made in the calculation of vehicle operating costs for savings of leisure and
commuting time, but these were insignificant (less than 5% of benefits) in
comparison to direct operating costs savings. The values allotted to time
savings were 100% of the wage rate in the case of work trips, 40% if the trip
was considered personal business, and 10% in the case of leisure time
avings. The average hourly wage rate in Jamaica is J$ 3.75, and the times
of drivers, assistants, and passengers of vehicles other than cars were
assumed to have an average economic cost of J$ 4.00, J$ 1.25 and J$ 2.00
respectively. In the case of private cars, the opportunity cost of the
working time of the driver and passengers was considered to be J$ 6.5 and
J$ 3.5 per hour respectively.
B.   Benefits from the Project
10.       As mentioned above, the main benefit calculated for the project is
savings in vehicle operating costs brought about by improved road surface
conditions.   It was estimated that a change of one inch of road surface
roughness per mile caused, on the average, a change of J$ 0.0056/mile in
vehicle operating costs on a fairly flat terrain and of J$ 0.0061/mile in the
case of mountainous roads. Savings in maintenance activities were not
included in the analysis since they are of relatively minor magnitude
compared with vehicle operating cost savings. The NPV of the estimated
three-phased program, using a discount rate of 12%, is J$ 296 million, and
the estimated economic rate of return is on the order of 100%. Tables 4.1
and 4.2 show the roads to be overlaid and resealed during the first phase of
the program, with their NPV and average annual daily traffic (AADT). The NPV
of the subprojects to be included in Phase I of the periodic maintenance
program varies between J$ 4,000 and J$ 630,000 for the reseal works and
between J$ 1.0 million and J$ 17.0 million for the overlay works.
11.       In terms of traffic, it can be seen that most of the roads for
which an overlay is planned have an AADT above 1,000, while those to be
resealed have, in general, an AADT below 1,000 vehicles.
12.       For the purpose of the economic analysis, tradeable goods were
costed at border prices, while the opportunity cost of labor was considered
to be 50% of its financial cost.   The consultants used an exchange rate of
US$1.00 = J$ 2.40, which reflects the price that the relevant economic agents
are expected to pay for foreign currency in the recently officialized
parallel market. The opportunity cost of capital in Jamaica was estimated
at 12%.
C.         Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
13.       Sensitivity tests for the various inputs of the economic evaluation
were carried out in the parish of St. Elizabeth.    This parish was chosen



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
because, given its wide variety of road types and traffic levels, it was
considered a good surrogate of the country as a whole. The tests were
carried out to show the effect of different vehicle operating costs, traffic
growth and cost assumptions on the optimal size of the maintenance program
and the economic viability of the project (Table 2 of this annex).
Decreasing vehicle operating cost savings by 20% affected the size of the
reseal works program only. Even then, the size of the optimal program
decreased by only 10%. The effect of changing traffic growth rates was also
concentrated on the reseal program, and the difference between zero growth
and 3% per annum was quite small. Finally, the effect of increasing
construction costs by 15% was tested, and the changes in the physical program
were again concentrated on reseal works and are similar to the effect of zero
traffic growth. In all three cases, the economic viability was not sensitive
to pessimistic assumptions.
April 1983



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
JAMAICA                     Table 1
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Summary of Vehicle Operating Costs
(J$/miles)
Class 1 Roacs"/    Class Z Roa4s!/   Class 3 Roads-/    Class 4 Roads-/
Flat   Mount.    Flat     Moun.     Flat    Mount.     Flat    Mount.
Terrain  Terrain  Terrain   Terrain  Terrain   Terrain  Terrain  Terraini
Cars               0.48      0.57    0.95     1.06      1.12      1.23    1.19      1.31
Pick-ups            0.67     0.85    1.22      1.41     1.41      1.60    1.49      1.69
Minibuses           1.48     1.76    3.14      3.44     3.71      4.03     3.96     4.29
Med-Trucks          1.62     2.27    2.78     3.53      2.99      3.78    3.07      3.94
Heavy Trucks        2.47     3.48    4.61     5.73      4.98      6.16    5.10      6.40
Buses               3.99     5.95    5.11     7.56      5.35      8.04    5.59      8.71
I/ A road with asphaltic overlay in good condition.
2/ A road with resealed surface in good condition.
3/ A road with resealed surface in fair to poor condition.
4/ A road in very poor condition with surface reverting to gravel.
Source: TPOS Study
October 1982



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Variation in Vehicle Operating Costs
Viable Projects, St. Elizabeth Parish
Vehicle                                                                        Estimated
Operating         Single Reseal     Double Reseal       Overlay          NPV       ERR
Cost            ('000 sq.yd.)     ('000 sq.yd.)    ('000 sq.yd.)   (J$million)     %
VOC-20%                38.0            474.4            139.4            7.1       42.6
VOC                   38.0             542.9            139.4           10.2       50.5
VOC+20%                38.0            639.9            139.4           13.5       56.1
Variation in Traffic Growth
Viable Projects, St. Elizabeth Parish
Annual                                                                          Estimated
Traffic           Single Reseal     Double Reseal       Overlay          NPV       ERR
Growth             ('000 sq.yd.)    ('000 sq.yd.)    ('000 sq.yd.)   (J$million)     %
0%                  38.0             494.5            139.4            8.2      48.1
3%                  38.0             542.9            139.4           10.2      50.5
Variation in Construction Costs
Viable Projects, St. Elizabeth Parish
Estimated
Construction      Single Reseal     Double Reseal       Overlay          NPV       ERR
Costs          ('000 sq.yd.)     ('000 sq.yd.)    ('000 sq.yd.)   (J$million)    %
Estimated Costs       38.0             542.9            139.4           10.2      50.5
Costs + 15%           38.0             494.4            139.4            9.4      45.7
Source: TPOS Study
October 1982



- 59 -
ANNEX 6
JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.         "Road Improvement and Maintenance Study, Stage III.
Draft Final Report" Volumes I and II.
T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners, October 1982.
2.         "Road Improvement and Maintenance Study" Stage III.
Road Condition Report, 13 volumes, (one for each parish).
T.P. O'Sullivan and Partners, October 1982.
3.         Calculation of Estimated Project Cost.
4.         Calculation of Local Taxes.
5.        Vehicle Operating Costs.    Computer Printout.   October 1982.
6.         Terms of Reference for Consulting Services under the Technical
Assistance Component of the Project:
(a) Road Planning Unit
(b) Maintenance Directorate
(c) Hire Funding Scheme
(d) Training Program
April 1983



JAMAICA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Ministry of Construction (Works)
P|ermnent
Secretary
Rural Rood             VInagement               Personnel                          Administration            Finonce                 Internal
Improvement             fIntormoton              Directorate                         Directorate              Drvision                 Audit
Program                  Section
Rrnancial
Controller
Chet
Systems        Systems         Training         Technical
Director
Controller of
Eudg,ets      Accounts
|Dircoteo      |                                                                                                   Directorate of
Elcnl&                                                                                                           Construiction
Branh    IvBratnch      Designuc BranchEgBrancho
ch                                                             Bianchan   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Works Branch  Program
Malor Ptaiects  Protect      Ra             hieurl          CIuaTit               hni    Landl          Tafc          yralc
Mech iervices ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Sevie
Monitonng &                                  Enginweerng &    Sreiguvys                    Engineening     Brnh         Spntcit             n
ReviewUntDesign Branch                             B                  hBranch
October 1982                                                                                                                                          Worid Bank-24781



JAMIVCA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Directorate of Maintenance
S.~~~pettntendent  nte, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ment,nc
c-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Engvmxx                                    01~~~~~~~~~
Coun~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.



0IBRD-14241R
JAMAICA
PREVIOUS BANK HIGHWAY PROJECTS                                                            c                           A/ A'/
NsW.          S                      A AND.                                                     ST          ANN
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
-   AspIt,c 009109 0onrpR d                                                                                                                                            R    T    L
Rehabditorive WorPs T                              B E T                                                            W. KEl ol\ p
FOURTH HiGHWAY PROJECT jLol4g>mk
SECNDIGWAYPRJECtLUoon 18-JM)    BLoiACKno RIhy=y =R. -~ <J 
A,phl,.Ih Ov-r1.y Capee          |                                                                                                                            GRSTON tlne 
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT (-oorrd032JMI  *   [nrrrol,oool Airports
Desodoed ErCgireen,srR            1     Locrol AirporTs                lt 
-C ons truirion                     ==ZCV  Paris h Boundr ri es        s      p        M LE
A       Coorlt  Boondonos Cy-ptd
-         -- - Irte-nrisrol Bardori-s  0  a  I0   2 rKILOMETERS       C A T / 8   3  A N  SEA
-     Rivers                                                                                    .n



IBRD-16846
Nm,, I~~ A /V ,IJ JA 0A LA . 
Socoodovy ~ ~ ~ mm                                                  "Posrod
- M,rn Port,                                                                     ,
+   + ' tocolSRw                                              *W             S. A oportR                       T  L 
0 \ V LR E  1  T  J 5  E  10  T0 A0
558l00                          7030                            oroc                            73AT
I~~~~~~~~ I I                          L CI#y                      XOE 
-  -  -  Internot.onol Boewdorles   MILES D,   5   10 Al- 15   B
Rl5FeRS   KILOMETERS O  5  ID  15  20  25~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
78 00  77- 30                         7 7 -02'                        ^.5-30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,



