OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER 2293 JM
Loan Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2293 JN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /, 1983, between
JAMAICA (hereinafter call d the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to borrow from foreign financial
institutions loans equivalent to $8,500,000 for purposes of
financing a portion of the foreign exchange cost of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOC" means the Ministry of Construction (Works) of the
Borrower.
(b) "Road Planning Unit" means the unit to be established
by the Borrower within MOC pursuant to Section 3.05 of this
Agreement.


﻿-2-
(c) "Road Maintenance Program" means the Borrower's program
for the maintenance of its main road system for the Fiscal Year
1983/84 through 1986/87, set forth in a letter from the Borrower
to the Bank of even date herewith.
(d)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Borrower
beginning on April 1 and ending on March 31 of each year.
(e)  "Hire Funding   Scheme" means the office established
within MOC's Directorate of Electrical and Mechanical Services
for the management of funds for equipment replacement and spare
parts.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions.of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to thirty-seven thousand four hundred six dollars
($37,406).


﻿-3-
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
a:-d pal to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall letermine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on-the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semestet.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means   the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified   Borrowings"  means:  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means the first six months or the,
second six months of a calendar year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MOC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate  financial,   administrative  and   engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities,  services   and  other  resources  required   for  the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing,
the Borrower shall make its best efforts in order to contract
with foreign sources the financing of any part of the Road
Maintenance Program which is not financed under the Loan.
(c) The Borrower shall give priority to the allocation of
local funds for the carrying out of the Road Maintenance Program
over any other investment in the road sector of the Borrower.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, promptly
as needed, engineering, planning, management, accounting and
training consultants, including a coordinator for the Road
Maintenance Program, a training specialist and a manager for the
Hire Funding Scheme, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
such consultants to be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall continue to employ a highway
planning engineer with qualifications and experience and under
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than February 27, 1984, prepare an action
plan satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying out of the
training activities included in Part C of the Project, which
shall, inter alia, specify the number of staff to be trained and
the methods for the selection of such staff; and
(b) carry out such action plan according to a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank a list
of roads, acceptable to the Bank, to be included in the second
and third phases of the periodic road maintenance, included in
Part A of the Project, together with the economic justification
for their selection, not later than March 31, 1984 and March 31,
1985, respectively.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than September 1, 1983, establish, and
thereafter maintain, a road planning unit, with responsibilities
and functions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) without limitation to the generality of the provisions
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, provide such road planning
unit with suitable staff, funds, equipment and other resources as
shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than Septem-
ber 1, 1983, create the positions fcr, and appoint a contracts
engineer and three field engineers within the Directorate of
Maintenance of MOC with func,.ions and responsibilities satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out a plan, satis-
factory to the Bank, to attract to MOC suitably qualified staff
essential to the execution of the Project, on a timetable
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure the timely supply of materials of adequate quality
required for the carrying out of Part A (ii) and (iii) of the
Project.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The   Brrrower  shall  cause  all  goods  and   services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.-
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived-from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) shall furnish to the Bank quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of the Project in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (iv) shall
furnish to the -Bank all such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-7-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonaoly request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation,, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 8 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in
accordance   with   consistently   maintained   sound   accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be raintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
starting with Fiscal Year 1983/84, audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than seven
months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of


﻿-9-
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said separate accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
gection 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) implement its axle load control program on a timetable
acceptable to the Bank; and
(b) review its current road safety practices and, based on
such review, formulate and implement a plan satisfactory to the
Bank for the improvement of road safety operations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all necessary action
in order to ensure the availability to contractors participating
in the implementation of the Road Maintenance Program, promptly
as needed, of the foreign exchange for the acquisition of
equipment and spare parts required for the carrying out of their
operations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall submit to the Bank for
comments, as soon as available, its budget for expenditures to be
incurred by the Borrower during each Fiscal Year in respect of
the carrying out of the Road Maintenance Program.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause the roads in the
Borrower's territory to be adequately maintained and repaired,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices and
economic criteria.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all MOC's maintenance equip-
ment and workshops to be adequately maintained and all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate technical and engineering practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall carry out a plan, satis-
factory to the Bank, to rationalize the operations of the Hire
Funding Scheme, on a timetable satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Sect'cn 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Bor-
rower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the event
specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions, namely, that counterpart personnel for the Coordinator of
the Road Maintenance Program, the training specialist, and the


﻿- 11 -
highway planning engineer referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank, have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date           k/1d   i$7(i, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
30 National Heroes Circle
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
JAMAICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               8,600,000         46%
(2) Equipment, vehicles         900,000         100% of foreign
and spare parts                            expenditures
(3) Consultants fees          1,500,000         100% of foreign
and training                               expenditures
(4) Fee pursuant to              37,406        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of                            Section 2.05 of
the Loan Agree-                            this Agreement
ment
(5) Unallocated               3,962,594
TOTAL              15,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in


﻿- 14 -
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect bf: (a) expenditures made
prior to the date of this Agreement; (b) Category (1), unless and
to the extent that the Bank has accepted a list of roads to be
included in such Part A (i), (ii) and (iii) of the Project,
provided, however, that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $400,000 may be made under Category
(1) on account of expenditures made after April 1, 1983, in
respect of the preparatory works included in Part A (i) of the
Project on roads accepted by the Bank for such purpose; and (c)
in respect of Category (2), unless a counterpart for the manager
of the Hire Funding Scheme referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Bank, has been appointed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expendi-
tures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's Road Maintenance
Program and consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Maintenance
Periodic road maintenance of about 520 miles of roads
in the territory of the Borrower, to be undertaken in
three phases of about one year of duration each,
including: (i) preparatory work, such as drainage
improvement and surface patching of such roads; (ii)
asphaltic concrete overlay of existing pavement on
about 160 miles of roads; (iii) asphaltic sealing and
resealing of pavement with double surface treatment on
about 360 miles of roads; and (iv) acquisition and
utilization of about 50 maintenance vehicles, 40 dump
trucks, and maintenance equipment and tools for the
maintenance of equipment; the roads to be included in
such Part of the Project to be acceptable to the Bank.
Part B:   Institutional Development
Strengthening of MOC's planning, road maintenance and
equipment management, and training capabilities.
Part C:   Training
Carrying out of a road maintenance training program,
including: (i) upgrading of MOC's physical training
facilities; (ii) training abroad of technical staff and
training personnel; and (iii) acquisition and utiliza-
tion of training equipment and vehicles for the use in
connection with training activities.
.  P  i
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning November 15, 1987
through   November 15, 1999-               575,000
On May 15, 2000                                 625,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                         .18
before maturity
More than three years but                         .35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                           .65
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                        .88
not more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years                          1.00
before maturity


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information 'as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar equipment and materials, and vehicles
shall be grouped together for the purpose of bidding so as to
form bidding packages estimated to cost not less than the
equivalent of $50,000.
4.   Contracts for civil works for Part A (ii) of the Project
will be divided into four bidding lots, each of them comprising
overlay works for about 40 miles of roads. Each invitation to bid
for such works shall, inter alia, specify that (i) all bids will
be opened at the same time and the contract or contracts awarded
simultaneously; (ii) all bidders will be allowed to bid for one
or more lots and all bidders shall be required to express whether
they are bidding for one or more lots individually or collec-
tively and to bid accordingly; (iii) awards shall be made on the
basis of (1) the lowest evaluated bid for all lots or (2) the
lowest evaluated combination of bids for one or more lots.


﻿- 19 -
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works for Parts A (iii) and C (i) of the
Project may be procured through local competitive bidding proce-
dures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Goods that cannot be grouped for bidding purposes in accor-
dance with paragraph 3 of Part A above may be procured under
local competitive procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, provided,
however, that the goods so procured shall not exceed in the
aggregate the amount equivalent of $500,000.
3.   Part A (i) of the Project may be carried out by force
account.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With  respect  to  all   contracts estimated   to  cost  the
equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 20 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time' for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of TLA      198 3
FOR SECRETARY


