Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23193
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0240; PPFI-Q0320)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.6 MILLION
(SDR 4.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
URBAN TRANSPORT REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
December 14, 2001
Water and Urban II
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 1 million = US$ 1,754.39
US$ 1 = 570
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP        Public Works Executing Agency/Agence pour l'Execution de Travaux dInteret Public
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CETUD         Dakar Urban Transport Steering Committee/Conseil Executifdes Transports Urbains de
Dakar
FDTU          Urban Transport Development FundlFonds de Developpement des Transports Urbains
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MOP           Memorandum of the President
PSR           Project Status Report
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RATP          French Urban Transport Company/Regie Autonome des Transports Parisiens
SOTRAC        Bus Company/Societe des Transports en Commun du Cap Vert
SSATP         Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:   John McIntire, AFC14
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:    Patrick Bultynck



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
URBAN TRANS REF TA
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     6
6. Sustainability                                                                         7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          7
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                        10
9. Partner Comments                                                                      10
10. Additional Information                                                               13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    21
Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                                     22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P044383                                       Project Name: URBAN TRANSPORT REFORM
AND CAPACITY BUILDING TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Team Leader: Patrick Bultynck                             TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 17, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN TRANSPORT REFORM AND CAPACITY LICITF Number: IF-N0240;
BUILDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                        PPFI-Q0320
Country/Department. SENEGAL                                             Region: Afiica Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TU - Urban Transport
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/20/1995                              Effective: 09/26/1997         09/15/1997
Appraisal:  01/10/1997                               MTR: 03/01/1999            03/01/1999
Approval:  06/13/1997                              Closing:  12/31/2000         06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL/CONSEIL EXECUTIF DES TRANSPORTS
URBAINS AU DAKAR
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:    John Mc Intire                             Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:      Letitia A. Obeng                          Max Pulgar-Vidal
Team Leader at ICR:   Patrick Bultynck                         Patrick Bultynck
ICR Primary Author:  Jerome Chevallier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the memorandum of the President (MOP), the main objective of the operation was to assist in
the provision of more affordable, reliable and safer public transport services in the Dakar metropolitan area
through:  (i) strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework and developing institutional
coordination among national ministries, local govermment, operators, and the private sector industry; (ii)
privatizating the public transport company (SOTRAC); (iii) stakeholders' involvement in decision-making
and financing the sector; (iv) developing road safety action plans and traffic management measures; and (v)
pilot investment targeted at the promotion of public transport services.
The objective of the project was clear and was consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS), which emphasized public enterprise reform and promotion of private initiatives. It was important
for the continued growth of the Dakar metropolitan area, in which 86 percent of Senegal's industries was
concentrated. When the project was initiated in the mid-90s, the urban transport sector was facing a major
crisis, due to inefficient policies in coping with rapid population growth, unclear responsibilities, weak
managerial capacities and an overcrowded transport corridor. In 1995-96, the Government prepared an
urban transport policy, with broad participation from stakeholders. The objective of the policy was to
rehabilitate the sector through a comprehensive approach, that would address institutional, regulatory,
financial, managerial and social aspects of the crisis.
The objective of the project was ambitious. Expecting that public transport services would be more
affordable, reliable and safer as a result of a technical assistance project with limited investment was indeed
a challenge. It was not an impossible task, however, as improving the institutional framework and
establishing a sustainable financing mechanism under the project were essential conditions for the delivery
of better public transport services to the population of the Dakar metropolitan area.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N.A.
3.3 Original Components:
The project included two components, institutional development and minor civil works. The first
component included technical assistance, training, and public information for implementing four activities:
(i) establishment and management of a coordinating body called CETUD; (ii) privatization of SOTRAC,
including assistance to the development of a leasing scheme for urban transport operators and revision of
the regulatory framework for the provision of urban transport services; (iii) establishment of a sustainable
financing mechanism for the sector (in the form of a fund called FDTU), to which the national
governments, the local governments and the private sector would each make an equal annual contribution;
and (iv) the implementation of a traffic management scheme and a road safety action plan with users'
participation. The minor civil works component was designed as a pilot scheme to test public transport
enhancement activities using labor-based techniques.
3.4 Revised Components:
N.A.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project was fully consistent with the CAS and supported the
CAS objective of reducing the role of govermnent in the economy and promoting private sector
development. The project was expected to extend access of urban transport services to the poor and
-2 -



improve their employment and market opportunities. It was designed to support the government strategy in
the urban transport sector, as formulated in the mid-1990s, with broad stakeholder participation and IDA
support. The strategy was described in a sector development policy letter.
The project team drew lessons from past experience in transport and urban projects in Senegal, including
the need to take into account the aspirations and interests of beneficiaries, reinforcing local capacities, and
establishing an appropriate and sustainable financing mechanism. Performance indicators were designed to
measure outcomes and outputs; however, outcome indicators were optimistic for a technical assistance
project. Project benefits were adequately assessed and the risk analysis was satisfactory. Two main risks
were foreseen, delays in the privatization of SOTRAC and lack of private sector contribution to the new
financing mechanism.
The QAG reviewed the project in 1997 and gave it a satisfactory rating.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project helped set up an institutional framework conducive to addressing urban transport issues in a
cohesive way. On the other hand, it had a limited impact on improving the affordability, reliability and
safety of public urban transport services.
The establishment of an institution, with equal representation from the central government, the local
governments and the private sector, to coordinate urban transport policies is a major breakthrough in
sub-Saharan Africa. It has contributed to knowledge improvement in the sector and to the sensitization of
each of the three partners to the concerns of the other two. The project helped in preparing a broad-based
investment project, the Urban Mobility Improvement Project, designed as an Adaptable Program Lending
(APL) and approved in June 2000.
Affordability of urban transport services improved somewhat, as competition among mini-buses increased,
leading to a lowering of the basic fare, which is now CFAF 100 (less than US$0.15). The quality of public
transport services has deteriorated, however, as owners of mini-buses must jam-pack their vehicles to cover
cost. Revenues from operations do not cover vehicles depreciation, making it extremely difficult for
owners to replace them. As a result, the public transport fleet has remained over-aged and prone to
breakdowns. Reliability of public transport services has not improved although average mnini-buses speed
has marginally increased from 14.4 to 16 km/h. The number of accidents involving public transport has
been marginally reduced. The project has implemented minor adjustments to six dangerous intersections in
the Dakar metropolitan area to make them safer. It has also supported training courses for public transport
drivers emphasizing security.
The outcome of the project is marginally satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Establishment of CETUD. CETUD was created in 1997 as a coordinating body for urban transport, and
also as the agency responsible for project implementation.  The Plenary Assembly is the main
decision-making body. It was originally composed of 26 members representing the Government, the
municipalities concerned and sector enterprises. Only seven members represented the private sector, of
which, three owners of mini-buses. CETUD's chairman was appointed by the Minister in charge of
transports from a list of three persons selected by the assembly. The first chairman enjoyed strong support
from the three groups represented in the assembly. He focused on building a consensus among them
- 3 -



throughout the project implementation period. A permanent secretariat, including a secretary and three
technical staff (an engineer, an economist and a lawyer), was selected on a competitive basis and was
responsible for day-to-day operations. An accounting unit was also established. In July 2001, a decree
increased the representation of private operators in CETUD's Plenary Assembly.
CETUD has been instrumental in formulating the regulatory framework for the privatization of SOTRAC,
the public bus company, and for the development of private sector initiatives in public transport services. In
particular, it has defined eligibility conditions for the leasing scheme, which is to be supported under the
follow-up project. It has prepared and implemented annual work and investment plans supported by the
project. It has been actively involved in the preparation of the follow-up project, in close consultation with
its constituencies.
During the ICR mission, a meeting of the Plenary Assembly took place. (The minutes of the meeting in
Annex 7). All members present at the meeting emphasized the importance of CETUD as a forum for
policy dialogue. The representatives of private operators in the informal sector were particularly satisfied
with the opportunities they had to air their concerns. CETUD is the first urban institution of its kind in
sub-Saharan Africa. Senegal's experience is of interest to other African countries that are keen on
addressing urban mobility issues with support from concerned public and private sector groups.
CETUD's capacity, particularly in the areas of engineering, procurement and financial management, needs
to be further strengthened for a much larger investment program supported by the follow-up project. Under
the new project, the Government agreed that all technical positions would be open to competition. The
secretary and technical personnel for CETUD are being recruited and existing staffs are being allowed to
compete for their jobs.
The CETUD component is rated satisfactory.
Establishment of a sustainable financing mechanism for the sector. The urban transport development
fund, FDTU, was established in 1997. The fund was designed to mobilize contributions from national and
local budgets, as well as from sector enterprises for financing infrastructure improvements approved by
CETUD. The government paid its annual share of CFAF 400 million (equivalent to US$550,000) during
the period 1997-2000, but the other partners did not. It was unrealistic, however, to expect that local
governments and the private sector would make voluntary contributions to FDTU in the absence of a
mechanism that would define the expected contribution of each government and professional organization
in an objective way.
That issue was addressed during project implementation. Consultants were hired to define such a
mechanism, following an assessment of each institution's capacity to contribute and extensive consultations
with all concerned. The new mechanism is part of a draft legislation, which is expected to be enacted in
early 2002. Draft standard agreements between CETUD and each category of contributor have also been
prepared. An urban mobility charter has been developed by consultants and endorsed by CETUD. The
charter defines the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders in urban transport.
The FDTU component is rated unsatisfactory, even though a consensus has been reached on how to ensure
that each stakeholder contributes to the fund according to an objective set of criteria.
Privatization of SOTRAC. The component included the privatization of SOTRAC, the development of a
leasing scheme for urban transport operators, and the revision of the regulatory framework for the
provision of urban transport services. Genuine efforts were made to privatize SOTRAC. These efforts
- 4 -



were not successful, however. Bus lines were separated into two networks. A first one, comprising 9 lines,
was considered financially viable on the basis of the CFAF 170 fare. The second network included 4 lines
in the suburbs of Dakar, which were not financially viable without a subsidy. In September 1998, the
Government called for bids for concessioning of the main network. Only one bid was received from a
group led by RATP, the public enterprise in charge of public transport in Paris, and included another
French transport company, TRANSDEV, and four private Senegalese investors. After the bid was
received, the Government decided to liquidate SOTRAC. In February 1999, however, RATP, under
pressure from its supervisory authorities, decided to withdraw its offer.
A new invitation to bid was issued. A Swiss consortium, Universal AG-Hess, expressed interest in taking
over the main bus network and signed a memorandum of understanding with the Privatization Authority in
August 1999. It proved unable, however, to bring along the Geneva public transport company, which was
expected to manage the bus operations. After this new disappointment, the government decided to separate
ownership of buses from their exploitation. In October 1999, the Government established a leasing
company called SEPROT, which took over SOTRAC's buses for leasing to private operators. After
competitive bidding, a local firm was selected to manage SEPROT. New discussions took place with
RATP and TRANSDEV in late 1999, which led to the proposal of creating a new company, Dakarbus,
which would manage the bus lines. Initially, the Government owned 51.5 percent of the shares of the new
company, the private Senegalese investors, 28.5 percent and TRANSDEV, 20 percent. The government
shares were to be sold to the public over time.
The privatization of SOTRAC suffered a major setback in July 2000. Following elections in April 2000,
the new Government decided to create a new bus company, Dakar Dem Dikk (DDD), which was
established in December 2000 with a share capital of CFAF 1.5 million, in which the Government presently
holds 90 percent of the shares. The Government bought 43 second-hand buses in January 2001 and
received 10 buses from the municipality of Milan. It gave the buses to the new company, together with 125
SOTRAC buses.
A leasing scheme has been prepared for the privatization of SOTRAC. In addition, a highly innovative
leasing scheme has been developed for informal operators in urban transport. It provides for subsidized
credit on the condition that mini-bus operators meet basic technical, operational and managerial
requirements and be part of professional associations. Implementation of the scheme is supported under the
follow-up project. By June 2001, 380 operators owning a total of 1300 mini-buses had established 12
associations for the purpose of benefiting from the scheme. The regulatory framework for the provision of
urban transport services is part of the new leasing scheme. The sub-component on the leasing scheme and
regulatory framework is highly satisfactory.
Despite progress made on the leasing scheme and the regulatory framework, the privatization component of
the project is rated unsatisfactory.
Implementation of a traffic management scheme and a road safety action plan. A traffic management
scheme was prepared and implemented through the minor works component of the project. A road safety
action plan was implemented, including the training of about 6,000 bus drivers, a sensitization campaign
for the population at large through a variety of media, and the introduction of road safety issues in the
curriculum of primary schools. An assessment of the impact of the bus driver training program was
carried out and indicated increased ownership of safety issues among beneficiaries.
The road safety action plan is rated satisfactory.
- 5 -



Minor civil works. The traffic management scheme identified a series of minor investments required to
reduce congestion and accidents. Bus stations were improved in close consultation with users and the local
population. Dangerous intersections were corrected through labor intensive methods. Red lights were
installed and support given to municipalities for their upkeep.
The minor civil works component is rated satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA. Due to the fact that the Project was a Technical Assistance, no net present value was calculated.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A. Due to the fact that the Project was a Technical Assistance, no financial rate of return was calculated.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The major achievement of the project was the establishment of a framework for consultations over urban
transport issues among all stakeholders. CETUD has provided a forum for representatives of the central
government, the local governments concerned and the urban transport industry to review sector issues and
reach a consensus on actions required to improve the performance and safety of the industry. The core
CETUD team has provided the leadership required for improving the regulatory framework for the sector,
and for preparing and implementing annual work plans to address pressing issues in road management and
safety. A leasing scheme was developed for informal mini-bus operators, which prompted a drive for the
establishment of professional organizations.  The mechanism  for mobilizing resources from  local
governments and the private sector was formulated in close consultation with all parties.
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A major factor in the SOTRAC privatization failure has been the decision made by RATP to withdraw its
offer to take over the company, followed by the inability of another potential partner to meet basic
conditions for satisfactory management of the bus company. After these setbacks, the Government worked
hard to find a workable solution.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The privatization of SOTRAC has not been fully supported by the previous Government, which
contributed to delays. The decision taken by the new Government to re-create a public enterprise in charge
of public urban transport may have broad consequences for the sector, particularly if the new company
continues to be subsidized through free assets, import duty exemptions and exclusive itineraries.
The new Government considered dismantling CETUD and entrusting the Ministry of Transport with the
responsibility of coordinating urban transport policies. Eventually it became convinced of the usefulness of
CETUD as an instrument for policy dialogue and agreed to keep it in place.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
CETUD, the project implementation agency, was slow in getting organized, with negative impact on the
- 6 -



pace of project implementation. Eventually, its management became reasonably efficient. Its cost was kept
at an acceptable level.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Overall, actual costs are in line with estimates, with the exception of consulting services, training and
seminars. The cost of the former category of expenditures is higher, but the cost of the latter is much lower
than anticipated. After credit approval, the Belgian bilateral aid agency agreed to finance a large training
program, which explains to a great extent the lower amount disbursed under this category of the credit.
Disbursements were slow. An 1 8-month lag in disbursements was observed throughout project
implementation. By end-October 1999, eight months before the initial credit closing date, the disbursement
lag was 51 percent. Only 40 percent of the credit had been disbursed by that time.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The main achievement of the project, the establishment of CETUD as a coordinating body for urban
transport bringing the central governnent, the local governments concerned and the private sector in the
decision-making process, is likely to be sustained. After some hesitations, the new Government has
realized the usefulness of this coordinating mechanism for urban transport. Past operating CETUD costs
have been mostly financed by the credit In the newly approved project (Urban Mobility Improvement
Project), there will be a decreasing role of IDA credit in the operating costs of CETUD.
Professional organizations established by mini-bus operators for the purpose of benefiting from the lease
scheme developed under the project are likely to survive and develop. Operators have expressed their
interest in working together, even before benefiting from the scheme.
Investment financed under the project by the credit and by FDTU must be maintained and replaced, if need
be. The major problem encountered so far has been the replacement of red lights, destroyed either by
accidents or vandalism.  Municipalities are responsible for such replacements but have neglected
addressing the problem, with the expectation that the central Government would step in. The urban
mobility charter has been designed to overcome such problems by clarifying the roles and responsibilities of
each partner. To ensure sustainability of the bus stations built with project support, the Government is
considering leasing them to the private sector.
When the new legislation establishing the mechanism for contributions by local Governments and private
sector organizations to FDTU is enacted, additional resources will be made available for funding annual
investment and action programs for urban transport. A small portion of these resources will also be used to
cover CETUD's operating costs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project laid the foundation for a larger and broader investment in public transport. The institutional
framework established under the project will be further developed under the follow-up project.
Sustainability issues will be reviewed and addressed by CETUD through appropriate consultations and
incentives.
With the follow-up project coming on board, project achievements are likely to be sustained.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
-7 -



Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank made a major effort to help the Government analyze and address a serious crisis in urban
transport. It provided support to the establishment of a steering committee through the sub-Saharan Africa
Transport Policy Program (SSATP). The steering committee prepared a draft urban transport policy,
which was debated by internal and external stakeholders during a seminar in September 1995. The
recommendations of the seminar provided the basis for project identification. The preparation of the
project involved extensive consultations with all parties concemed, which led to the formulation of a letter
of urban transport sector policy in September 1996. The project was well prepared.
The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation of the project is rated as satisfactory.
The project was thoroughly appraised. The skill mix of the appraisal mission was fully adequate. The
Govemnment was strongly committed to the project. Transport operators, who had been closely involved
during project preparation, had high expectations. CETUD, which was to serve as project implementation
agency, was established prior to appraisal. Its secretariat had no prior experience of Bank-financed
projects. To facilitate project implementation, a manual was prepared and agreed upon during credit
negotiations.
The privatization component was carefully designed. Five scenarios were developed. The status quo was
not an option, because of the continued heavy drain on public finance, estimnated at US$20 million for the
three years of project implementation. Full privatization of SOTRAC was deemed unrealistic because it
was highly unlikely that a private operator would be willing to make a big investment in a high-risk
business. The liquidation of SOTRAC was not a satisfactory solution because it would result in an
increase in private transport with a highly negative impact on congestion. A management contract was
excluded because it would be costly to the Government and would have a limited impact in the
medium-term. Concession, combined with a leasing arrangement, was found to be the preferred solution.
Mitigation measures were proposed to address the two issues identified, namely, the complexity of the
scheme and the risk of weak competition.
The benefits of the project were described in general terms. A set of performance indicators was provided.
The project was expected to improve access of the poor to public transport services, strengthen the
management of the sector and enhance the performance and competitiveness of the urban economy.
Performance indicators were provided for project outputs and outcomes, as detailed in Annex 1. As
already indicated, however, outcome indicators were not appropriate for an institutional development
project, which could not deliver improved services to the population.
Two risks were identified, including delays in the privatization of SOTRAC and the lack of private sector
contribution to the FDTU. It was estimated, however, that the Government would have an incentive to
complete the privatization of SOTRAC on time, as this would open access to funding by donors for urban
infrastructure. Private sector participation in the decision-making and policy formulation process, through
CETUD was considered as a mitigating factor for the second risk. Strangely, the lack of local government
contribution to the FDTU was not mentioned as a risk. Both risks materialized.
Lessons from past experience, including the need to strengthen institutional and regulatory expertise, to
promote the participation of all shareholders, and to ensure sustainable funding for successful sector reform
and development, were fully taken into account in designing the project.
The Bank's performance during project appraisal is rated as satisfactory.
- 8 -



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank provided excellent support to the Government and CETUD during project implementation.
Following a project launch workshop in September 1997, supervision missions visited Senegal twice a
year. Aide-memoires were thoroughly prepared, supervision reports were issued on time, and follow-up
letters emphasizing key issues were sent rapidly thereafter. The resources and the skill mix were fully
adequate. There was a remarkable continuity in the staffing of supervision missions. The staff showed
flexibility in adjusting to changes in the project environment. The mid-term review in January 1999 was
helpful in assessing the project's achievement. Performance ratings given in PSRs were not appropriate,
however. Implementation progress was consistently rated satisfactory in spite of disbursements lags
exceeding 50 percent.
The performance of the Bank in project supervision is rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The performance of the Bank team during project preparation and implementation was remarkable. The
team worked closely with a large number of stakeholders and helped the government set the stage for
launching a broad investment program to address critical urban transport issues. Main partners in the
development of the sector acknowledge the progress made in setting up an institutional framework
conducive to change. The overall performance of the Bank would have been rated as highly satisfactory,
had the project expectations been more realistically defined initially, or changed subsequently.
The overall performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project was well prepared in close consultation with all stakeholders. Such consultations were time
consuming, however, as the three main partners had little experience in policy dialogue. The urban
transport strategy prepared through these consultations was a sound one. The borrower agreed to focus
initially on institutional development and sector reform, before launching a broad-based investment
program. It established CETUD well before credit negotiations.
The performance of the borrower in project preparation is rated as satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The credit became effective on September 15, 1997, three months after approval. The technical staff of
CETUD was recruited in July 1997. The detailed timetable for the privatization of SOTRAC was
reviewed and agreed upon at the same time. The stage was set for a smooth implementation of the project.
Problems were encountered soon thereafter, however. Procurement procedures imposed on CETUD were
cumbersome and had to be adjusted. Delays were experienced in the preparatory work for the privatization
of SOTRAC. Project implementation was back on track by June 1998. The privatization component was
derailed in 1999, as already mentioned, and the physical infrastructure component was much delayed, in
part because of slowness in finalizing the agreement with AGETIP, the agency in charge of implementing
it. In the second half of 2000, implementation of the project suffered from uncertainties caused by changes
the new Government wanted to introduce to the institutional framework for the project.
The Government paid its contribution to project activities on time. It showed a willingness to adjust
procedures to accelerate project implementation. It demonstrated flexibility in finding solutions to difficult
issues.
-9-



Despite the delays in disbursements, the performance of the Government is rated as satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
CETUD was an untested agency, with no prior experience with Bank-financed projects. It did a reasonably
good job in coordinating project implementation. Its operating cost was kept at an acceptable level. It
complied with credit covenants, including in the areas of procurement and financial management. Its
technical staff was uneven, including two excellent performers and two staff with little drive. CETUD
prepared good progress reports on time and kept a solid project database for the purpose of monitoring and
evaluation. CETUD survived the changes in Government and is firmly established and reinforced for the
implementation of the next project (Urban Mobility Improvement Project).
The performance of CETUD is rated as satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower is rated as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The first lesson is that establishing a partnership between the Government, municipalities and the private
sector for the purpose of developing appropriate solutions to public transport issues in a big metropolitan
area is an excellent approach. Considerable efforts are required, however, to initiate and nurture such an
innovative process.
The second lesson is that it is important to promise only what can be effectively delivered. The project, as
initially designed, included a substantial investment program.  Performance indicators, which were
appropriate for a larger project, should have been revised following the scaling down of the project.
The third lesson is that it is optimistic to expect stakeholders to make voluntary contributions to the
common good, if there is no tangible benefit in sight and no clear mechanism in place to ensure that
everyone is treated fairly. Stakeholders are pleased to participate in policy discussions and are grateful
when their opinions are heard. This is not enough, however, for making them willing to contribute to a
development fund, even if they are part of the decision-making process.
The fourth lesson is that privatization of a public bus company is an extremely difficult undertaking. It is a
highly sensitive political issue. Potential investors are fully aware of the constraints on tariffs, and hence
on revenues. Liquidation is not an option because of pressures from powerful groups and the problems
resulting from a vastly increased urban congestion.
The fifth lesson is that it makes a lot of sense to focus on establishing an adequate institutional framework
before initiating a large investment program. On the other hand, by delaying much-needed investment,
there is a risk that stakeholders may be demobilized. The physical investment component of the project
was much appreciated, but was too small to meet the expectations of the population and their
representatives. The investment program should have been a larger one or the expectations could have
been better handled..
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 10-



REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
No              CETUD/SE /ECO
Dakar, le
Le Secretaire Executif
Objet: rapport de fin d'execution
Monsieur le Charge de Projet,
Nous accusons reception du projet de rapport de fin d'execution e1abore par vos services sur le
Projet de Reforme et de Renforcement des Capacites d'Expertise en Matiere de Transports
urbains.
Je vous transmets, ci-joint, les commentaires de la commission constituee pour 1'etude de ce
document. Vous trouverez egalement joint, le textes comprenant certaines modifications que nous
vous proposons pour ameliorer la redaction.
L. Sur la forme
Sur la forme, nous notons, sur la fiche d'identification, que le projet dont il s'agit est bien le <<
Projet de reforme et de renforcement des Capacites d'expertise en matiere de Transports urbains >>
et non le Projet d'Amelioration de la Mobilite urbaine (PAMU).
Par ailleurs, nous notons que certains paragraphes annonces dans le document ne font pas l'objet
de developpements: il convient soit de les supprimer du texte, soit de faires les developpements
correspondants.
II. Sur le fond
- 11 -



Concernant le fond, nous constatons que l'appreciation globale que vous faites de l'execution et
des resultats du projet ne differe pas fondamentalement de celles du gouvernement, contenues
dans l'annexe 8 de votre document.
Cependant, certains passages de ce document sortent du cadre normal d'appreciation de
l'execution d'un projet, et meritent, par consequent, d'etre revus.
4.2 Resultats par composantes
La mesure de restructuration du CETUD ne vise pas le << demantelement >> de la structure, mais
sa reorganisation pour une meilleure efficacit6. Vous reconnaissez du reste, dans le meme
paragraphe, in fine, que ces modifications sont positives.
Par ailleurs, contrairement a ce qui est ecrit, le President du CETUD, meme s'il est nomme par
decret presidentiel, est choisi, comme cela avait et convenu, sur une liste de trois (03) personnes,
par l'Assemblee pleniere, sur concours.
Concemant la personnalite a designer par le President de la Republique, il s'agit d'une personne
independante dont la competence dans le secteur est averee. La meme formule, appliquee au
Conseil des Routes, a e  appreci6e positivement.
En tout etat de cause, cette personnalite ne peut pas remettre en cause l'equilibre recherche dans
la representation des trois (03) partenaires a l'Assemblee pleniere: du reste, par rapport a la
premiere Assembl&e, la representation de l'Etat passe de 41% (11 sur 27) a 32% (6 sur 19) des
sieges.
Concemant la privatisation de la SOTRAC, on ne peut pas affinner que cette action n'a pas ete
soutenue par le Gouvemement, quand on sait que celui-ci a proc6de, conformement aux
engagements pris dans ce sens, a la liquidation de la societe des novembre 1998, au moment ou il
a cru possible la reprise du reseau d'autobus par un operateur de ref6rence. La raison de l'echec
dans la mise en place du schema initialement prevu doit plutot etre recherchee dans la mefiance
des op6rateurs dans le systeme de transport tel qu'il est pratique a Dakar, d'oii l'interet de la
reforme.
Nous notons du reste une contradiction a ce propos entre les paragraphes 5.1 et 5.2 du
document.
5. Principaux facteurs affectant le d&roulement et les r6sultats du proiet
Les appreciations et commentaires faits sUr la vie politique senegalaise devraient etre sortis du
document. Dans tous les cas, il n'est pas exact d'affirmer que le changement de regime intervenu
en 2000 a et suivi d'un renoncement aux engagements pris par l'ancien Gouvernement: la lettre
de politique sectorielle de septembre 1996 continue d'etre la reference en matiere de transports
urbains ; les ajustements operes sont destines a rationaliser le systeme tel qu'il a e concu.
Contrairement a ce qui est ecrit, la separation des fonctions d'investissements (propriete du
- 12 -



materiel) et d'exploitation n'est pas une cons6quence des << deboires dans la privatisation de la
SOTRAC ; elle a et plut6t preconisee par la lettre de politique sectorielle de septembre 1996.
La creation de la SEPROT procedait de cette logique.
7.2 Organisme d'exe'cution
L'appreciation que le document fait sur le personnel du CETUD merite d'etre relativisee: si
certames actions n'ont pu etre menees a leur termes, ce n'est certainement pas du fait de
l'incompetence des agents charges de leur conduite. Des facteurs non maitrisables par l'equipe ont
grandement entrave l'action des experts pour la reussite de ce projet dont le caractere << pilote >>
ajoute davantage a l'incertitude quant aux delais d'atteinte des resultats.
NB: The comments made by the Borrower on the draft ICR have been taken into account in the
final version.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 13 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
tn00000    dlctrMti x770:0:   0;1   ?      Prece dIn last iPSR' 0000  :00.    Q0\0Actua/Lts  Esimate;: 0
- Reduction of the percentage of number of 20% in 2000                       4%
accidents involving public transport.
- Increase - percentage - of commercial   5% in 2000                         11% (average speed increased from 14.4
speed of public transport on three main roads                                km/h in 1997 to 16 km/h in 2000)
at peak hours.
- Increase in the rate of satisfaction of public 50% in 2000                 Customers expressed satisfaction with new
transport users.                                                             bus stops and shelters. But other aspects of
public transport, including overcrowding of
buses, have not improved.
- Increase of financial contrbution from the
sector and municipalities: 50% to 100%
- Increase in use of public transport as
opposed to other means of transport: 10%
to 20%.
Output Indicators:
Increase in the share of sector and local  Annual contributon from local govemments  Central govemment made annual
govemment financing for public        and sector is equal to that of the govemment contributions of CFAF 400 million to FDTU,
transportaton                         (CFAF 400 million)                     but the other two partners did not contribute
to it.
Increase in market share of public transport  20% in 2000
(see below)
The figures in the next two columns show    market share   1997              2000
that the market share of mini-buses has
increased to the detriment of SOTRAC and  SOTRAC           9.2                0.7
prvate cars                           Mini buses           60.8              72.9
Taxis               7.3                8.3
private cars        22.7               18.1
End of project
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
"A .ftcuail.    entageo
E M - ~~~~~Aipprasal
Project Cost By Component            U$ $milot   tJ$$ mih11-n
Civil Works                                          4.65           2.89
Goods & Equipment                                    0.33           0.20
Consultants' Services                                1.52           1.86
Training & Seminars                                  0.52           0.06
Operating costs of CETUD                             0.73           0.97
PPF refinancing                                      0.55           0.12
Total Baseline Cost                                  8.30           6.10
Physical Contingencies                              0.18
Price Contingencies                                 0.18
Total Project Costs             8.66            6.10_
Total Financing Required              8.66           6.10
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category   |  IB    -       unen -   t      - ;d                Total-Cost
1. Works                     0.00         2.67          0.00         2.18         4.85
(0.00)       (2.34)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (2.34)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.32         0.03         0.00         0.35
(0.00)       (0.32)       (0.03)       (0.00)        (0.35)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          1.62         0.00         1.62
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.62)       (0.00)        (1.62)
4. Training/Seminars         0.00          0.00         0.52         0.00         0.52
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.52)       (0.00)        (0.52)
5. CETUD operating costs     0.00          0.00         0.78         0.00         0.78
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)        (0.70)
6. PPF                       0.00          0.00         0.55         0.00         0.55
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.55)       (0.00)        (0.55)
Total                     0.00          2.99         3.50          2.18         8.67
._______________________    (0.00)        (2.66)       (3.42)       (0.00)       (6.08)
-15 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
rCtoy                                                       W    .B. .      Tt  VCost
1. Works                          0.00            2.89           0.00            0.00          2.89
(0.00)         (2.60)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.60)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.20           0.00            0.00           0.20
(0.00)         (0. 1 9)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0. I 9)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00            1.86           0.00           1.86
(0.00)         (0.00)          (1.86)         (0.00)         (1.86)
4. Training/Seminars              0.00            0.00           0.06            0.00           0.06
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.06)         (0.00)         (0.06)
5. CETUD operating costs          0.00            0.00           0.97            0.00           0.97
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.87)         (0.00)         (0.87)
6. PPF                            0.00            0.00           0.12            0.00           0.12
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.12)         (0.00)         (0.12)
Total                          0.00            3.09           3.01            0.00           6.10
(0.00)         (2.79)          (2.91)         (0.00)         (5.70)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2, Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
[  X  __  \ 0 ;;(\\< --~~~~~~~*:-8M74! $3<Prce tg  o Apprasall
Component ~~~~~~~~Appr,                     t~~~~~~stiiuate ~                  oF
Civil Works                2.54      0.26                  2.60       0.29               102.4  111.5
Goods                      0.33      0.03                  0.19       0.01                57.6   33.3
Consultants' services      1.52      0.00                  1.86       0.00               122.4   0.0
Training & Seminars        0.52      0.00                  0.06       0.00                11.5    0.0
Operatingcosts             0.73      0.08                  0.87       0.10               119.2  125.0
Refunding of PPF           0.55      0.00                  0.12       0.00                21.8    0.0
Unallocated                0.37                                                           0.0
Total                      6.56                            5.70       0.40                86.9
-16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
NA. Due to the fact that the Project was a Technical Assistance, no Cost Benefit Analysis was carried out.
- 17-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count              Specialty                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/15/1996                     2    1 TL, I consultant
09/15/1996                     2    1 TL, I consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/20/1997                     7    lTL, I municipal finance
specialist, I private sector
specialist, I operations
analyst, I engineer, 2
consultants
Supervision
06/18/98                        3   ITL, I private sector                 HS               S
specialist, I program
assistant
12/18/98                        4   ITL, I private sector specialist, I   HS              S
program assistant, I urban
specialist
03/19/1999                      4   ITL, I private sector specialist, I    S               S
economist, I program assistant
10/15/1999                      3   ITL, I municipal finance               S               S
specialist, I program assistant
06/08/2000                      2   1 TL, I financial specialist           S               S
12/08/2000                      2   1 TL, I private sector specialist      S               S
01/24/2001                      3   1 TL, I private sector specialist,     S               S
I program assistant
ICR
07/16/2001                     5    ITL, I private sector                  S               S
specialist, I municipal
finance specialist, 1
program assistant, I
consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                   14.4                           30.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                        10.5                           23.6
Supervision                                 49.22                          143.2
ICR                                          2.23                            5.6
Total                                       76.35                          203.0
- 18-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM *          ON  O NA
O Physical                                OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Financial                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
ai Gender                          O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
al Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
CI Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
-19-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Ol Supervision                                       OHS Os   OU  OHU
Oi Overall                                           OHS OS  O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS IDS  O  u  O HU
E Government implementation performance              O HS OS  0  U  0 HU
CJ Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0 U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Rapport d'achevement du projet de reforme et de renforcement des capacites en matiere de transports
urbains, Compte-rendu de la reunion de F'assemblee pleniere du CETUD tenue le 20 juin 2001.
- 21 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
I.    PRESENTATION
1.1. Contexte
Suite a la crise des transports urbains A Dakar et dans les metropoles des pays de l'Afrique
subsaharienne connue depuis le debut des annees 80, et en raison de son importance, le sous
secteur des transports urbains a fait l'objet d'une lettre de politique sectorielle A part, signee par
le Gouvemement en septembre 1996.
Cette reforme a connu un debut de mise en ceuvre, avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale, A travers
le "projet de reforme et de renforcement des capacitUs en matiere de Transports urbains".
1.2. Objectif et contenu du Projet
La reforme du transport urbain vie A assainir le sous-secteur, en vue d'ameliorer son efficacite de
facon durable. L'am6lioration de 1'expertise au niveau des structures ainsi qu'une meilleure
connaissance du secteur, la professionnalisation de l'activite et le d6veloppement d'un partenariat
entre les divers acteurs sont recherches.
Dans cette perspective, le Projet a pour objectif de creer les conditions pour la fourniture de
services de transport public de voyageurs moims cofiteux, plus fiables et plus surs dans
l'agglomeration dakaroise.
La mise en auvre du projet a cible les principaux axes ci-apres:
a) une reforme au niveau du cadre institutionnel et reelementaire par:
- I'appui a la creation  d'une entite specifiquement chargee de la coordination
institutionnelle et reglementaire des transports urbains a Dakar: il s'agit du Conseil Executif
des Transports urbains de Dakar (CETUD) qui regroupe au sein de son organe de decisions et de
deliberation (I'Assemblee pleniere) les principaux intervenants du secteur (Etat, collectivites et
operateurs prives);
- la restructuration des transports collectifs: il s'agit de redefinir les reseaux d'exploitation des
divers exploitants dans une optique de complementaritn itennodale, avec la ligne de chemin de
fer desservant la banlieue comme << epine dorsale >> du systeme;
- l'appui au desengagement de I'Etat de 1'exploitation   dans ce cadre, il est prevu la
privatisation de la SOTRAC, par la creation d'une societe d'exploitation dont le capital sera
majoritairement detenu par le secteur prive;
b) une reforme du cadre financier se traduisant par:
- la creafton d'un Fonds de Developpement des Transports Urbains (FDTU), charge
- 22 -



d'assurer le financement des investissements dans le secteur  ce fonds devrait &re alimente
par des contributions des principaux intervenants sus-mentionnes;
- la mise en place d'un mecanisme de leasing pour l'acquisition, i des conditions douces, de
materiels de transport: dans ce cadre, il a e  prevu, d'une part, la creation d'une societe de
patrimoine chargee de fournir le materiel roulant necessaire A l'exploitation du reseau d'autobus
et, d'autre part, le renouvellement du parc d'autocars (cars rapides);
c) la conduite d'etudes et d'actions en vue d'une meilleure connaissance du secteur: ces
etudes seront A la base de toutes les actions presentes et futures A mener dans le secteur. Au titre
de ces actions, il convient de citer celles relatives a la formation et A la sensibilisation des acteurs
et des usagers de la route ainsi qu'A la professionnalisation des intervenants;
d) la mise en ceuvre d'investissements physicues vour ameliorer le fonctionnement du
secteur: il s'agit d'infrastructures et de mobiliers urbains destines A la promotion des transports
en commun de personnes (construction ou rehabilitation de stations, d'arrets et abris pour autobus
et autocars, de voies reservees aux transports collectifs, d'encoches, de gares, etc).
1.3. Cout, financement et delai d'execution
Le projet a e concu pour une duree de trois (03) ans, et pour un cofit 6value A F.CFA 3 747 094
000, dont 3 567 094 000 au titre de la contribution de l'IDA et 180 000 000 au titre de la
contrepartie de l'Etat du Senegal, A raison de 60 000 000 par an, tire de sa participation au Fonds
de Developpement des Transports urbains (FDTU).
Cette derniere est fixee annuellement A F.CFA 400 000 000.
La cl6ture du projet etait prevue au 31 decembre 2000.
1.4. Les structures d'execution du projet
Le CETUD, etablissement public A caractere professionnel, crec dans le cadre de la mise en euvre
de la r6forme par la loi n97-01 du 10 mars 1997 est l'agence d'ex6cution du projet.
Concu pour etre une structure souple, legere, mais aussi efficace, le CETUD comprend un
organe de d6cision qui est l'Assemblee pleniere, au sein de laquelle se retrouvent les repr6sentants
de l'Etat, des collectivites locales et du secteur prive, et un organe d'execution avec un personnel
d'encadrement tres r6duit: un President, un Secretaire executif, un Ingenieur, un Economiste et
un Juriste.
Pour la mise en =uvre du projet, le faire faire a e  privilegie. Ainsi, les 6tudes et consultances
seront confiees A des cabinets specialises, et les travaux A 1'AGETIP A travers une convention de
maitrise d'ouvrage delegu&e.
Le reglement des depenses engagees sur le credit IDA est assure par la Direction de la Dette et de
- 23 -



l'Investissement (DDT) du Minist&re de !'Economie et des Finances, conformnment aux
procedures IDA.
En tant qu'etablissement public, le CET1`UD  ben6ficie des services d'un Agent Comptable
particulier qui assure. notamment la gestion comptable du proj et.
II - ETAT D'EXECUTION DU PROJET:
Initialement prevu pour la periode allant du 15  septembre 1997 (date d'entr6e en vigueur) au 31
decembre 2000 (date de cloture), le projet a ete finalement cl6ture le 30 juin 2001, soit avec six
(6) mois de prorogation.
2.1. Execution financiere
A la date du 30 juin 2001, I execution fmanci6re est satisfaisante, comme I'atteste le tableau en
annexe.
Dans l'ensemble, 1'esprit du projet a etc respecte a travers les realisations effectuees.
2.2. Ex6cution physique
2.2.1. Travaux de genie civil
Cette categorie de realisations a concern6 la mise en place d'infrastructures destinees a favoriser
le developpement du transport en commun. 11 s'agit, essentiellement de:
- Gares de Lat Dior et de Petersen : des 6quipements ont ete construits pour permettre leur
fonctionnalit6 et assurer le confort des exploitants et des usagers.
- l'amenagement de points dWarrk, d'abris et d'encoches: ces amenagements, concernent
1'ensembles des exploitants (autobtus, cars rapides et taxis) et ont ete realises sur l'ensemble du
perimetre urbain de l'agglomneration Ils jouent un role de premier plan dans la materialisation de
la restructuration du reseau de transport en commun.
- I'amenagement de terminus a Daroukhane et aux Parcelles assainies: il s'agit de la
construction respective gares pour autobus et dune gare multimodale en banlieue. .
- traitement de points noirs de la circulation a Dakar, Thies et Kaolack : il s'agit de
s'attaquer aux causes directes des accidents de la circulations en intervenant sur des points precis
renomm6s pour la frequence des; accidents. Les traitements consistent en la rehabilitation de
voirie, l'amenagement de carrefourts. la mnise en place de panneaux de signalisation
- rehabilitation de collectrices de transport et realisation d'encoches supplementaires: iI
s'agit de faciliter l'arret des ;'ehicules de transport collectif pour soulager 1'exploitation.
Le programme d'infrastructures du pro'et a te renforce et complete par des realisations faites sur
24 -



des ressources du FDTU dont la mise en exploitation ameliorera l'efficacite des actions realis6es
par les credit de l'IDA. Parmi ces infrastructures, il convient de citer la gare ferroviaire (PTB) de
Rufisque, I'amenagement des acces de la gare routiere de Rufisque ainsi que la rehabilitation de
voirie a Dakar, Pikine, Guegiawaye, Rufisque et Bargny.
2.2.2. Fournitures
Les fournitures ont concerne l'quipement du CETUD (vehicules et mobilier de bureau) ainsi que
du materiel de securite routiere.
2.2.3. Services de consultances
La plupart des etudes et consultances identifi6es lors de la preparation du projet, ont ete realisees
sauf celles concernant l'audit technique et financier de la concession, l'integration tarifaire et les
contraintes de services publics, par defaut de concessionnaire. Elles ont permis, outre une
meilleure connaissance du secteur, l'identification d'actions majeures en perspective du second
projet de transport urbain.
2.2.4. Seminaires, Formations et actions de sensibilisation
Ce programme a concerne la formation des chauffeurs de transport en commun, une vaste
campagne de sensibilisation du public a la s6curite routiere, ainsi que la formation des cadres du
CETUD, des ministeres et des collectivites locales.
I1 s'agit tout d'abord la formation de 6 000 conducteurs professionnels a une conduite plus sAre et
plus economique (developpement d'une conscience du risque accidentel, renforcement de la
conscience professionnelle dans les rapports avec les usagers et l'outil de production).
Par ailleurs, quelques cadres de l'Administration centrale et des collectivit6s locales ont e
formrs dans le domaine de la planification des transports publics urbains.
La formation a 6galement concerne les scolaires, pour qui, un manuel a ete elabore par l'INEADE
en relation avec les services et organismes competents du ministere de l'Equipement et des
Transports ainsi que du Ministere de l'Education pour l'introduction d'un programme de securite
routiere a l'ecole elementaire. L'op6ration pilote doit demarrer pendant l'annee scolaire
2001-2002.
A l'endroit du grand public, une vaste campagne de s6curit6 routiere s'est deroulee durant les
annees 1998, 1999 et 2000.
Des modules reserves aux proprietaires de cars rapides ont ete diff&s. Ils seront executes a partir
de 2002, dans le cadre de la poursuite de la reforme.
2.3. Etat de la mise en (euvre de la reforme
- 25 -



2.3.1. Le cadre institutionnel
Le CETUD s'est avere une structure appropriee pour la coordination des transports urbains A
Dakar. Sous son impulsion, la concertation a ete engag6e entre l'ensembles des intervenants du
secteur.
Le decret organisant son fonctionnement vient d'etre modifie pour accroitre son efficacite.
2.3.2. Le cadre financier
Le Fonds de Developpement des Transports urbains annonce dans la loi portant cr6ation du
CETUD n'a pas e  operationnel.
La demarche initiale consistant A promouvoir le volontariat dans la prise de participation au fonds
et I'absence de cadre juridique ne sont pas etrangeres A cette situation.
En effet, les collectivit6s locales bien que favorables A l'idee de contribuer A ce fmancement n'ont
pas pu le faire, faute de cadre juridique permettant une telle participation, d'autant qu'elles se
trouvent par ailleurs confrontees A des problemes de tresorerie de plus en plus accentues: ainsi,
les inscriptions budgetaires faites par certaines d'entre elles n'ont pas pu etre mobilisees.
Les operateurs prives, pour leur majorite, ont toujours ete reticents A cette participation, estimant
avoir dejA contribuer au financement du secteur A travers les taxes prelevees sur leur activite..
C'est ainsi qu'une etude a ete menee pour defmir le mecanisme juridique approprie A cet effet: ce
dispositif juridique en vue de la creation du Fonds est actuellement en cours de fmalisation.
En attendant, les ressources du FDTU proviennent exclusivement de l'Etat, pour un montant
annuel de 400 millions de F.CFA depuis 1997.
Concemant le mecanisme de leasing destine A faciliter le renouvellement du parc A des conditions
financieres douces, il a connu des sorts differents selon qu'il s'agisse des autobus ou des cars
rapides:
pour les autobus, la societe SEPROT, societe anonyme A participation publique
majoritaire a ete cre6e en 1999, conformement au schema mis en place, pour fournir A 1'exploitant
du reseau d'autobus le materiel roulant necessaire A son exploitation. Cependant, apres l'option
prise par les autorites de ne plus separer les fonctions d'investissement et d'exploitation du reseau
d'autobus, les activites de la societe ont ete gelees: elle devrait donc disparaitre avec la creation
de Dakar Dem Dikk;
-     pour les cars rapides, les preparatifs pour la mise en place d'une ligne de credits A mettre
en place dans le cadre du PAMU sont avances : le gestionnaire de la ligne est choisi, les
operateurs sont organises en GIE qui forment I'Association de fmancement ; la societe d'autobus
Dakar Dem Dikk est membre de ladite Association, ainsi qu'un GIE de taxis.
- 26 -



2.3.3. La privatisation de la SOTRAC
Les resultats des differents audits menes, ont montre la situation fmanciere tres deficitaire de la
SOTRAC, malgre un engagement massif de l'Etat. Conformement aux dispositions de la lettre de
politique sectorielle et aux engagements pris dans le cadre du Projet, la liquidation de la societe a
ete prononcee en novembre 1998.
Par contre, les tentatives menees pour conceder le reseau de 1'ex-SOTRAC A des operateurs
prives n'ont pas abouti. En effet, apres un appel A manifestation d'interet infructueux, une
deuxieme consultation a permis l'ouverture de negociations avec un groupe compose de RATP
International et TRASDEV. Ces negociations, bouclees en janvier 1999, n'ont pas 6t6 suivies
d'effets apres deux reports successifs de la date de signature de la convention de concession, sur
decision de la tutelle de RATP International.
Durant toute l'annee 1999, des demarches furent menees, sans succes, pour trouver d'autres
operateurs susceptibles de reprendre ce reseau: les differents groupes approches se montraient
peu rassures par le contexte particulier du reseau de Dakar caracterise par une cohabitation avec
un secteur prive aux methodes d'exploitation peu conventionnelles.
IL convient de noter que le desistement, au dernier moment, de RATP a grandement contribue A
accroitre la reticence des candidats A la reprise du reseau.
N'ayant pu trouver un operateur dispose A reprendre le reseau selon la formule du <<risque et
perils >>, les autorites modifierent la formule pour une concession d'exploitation sans un
engagement financier de 1'exploitant: celui-ci signera un contrat de gestion dans lequel il
s'engagerait sur des resultats techniques et financiers pred6fmis, moyennant une remuneration
approprnee.
Cette formule serait mise en place pour une periode transitoire de deux A trois ans, pendant
laquelle la rentabilite du reseau serait testee et au bout de laquelle sa concession serait faite A un
operateur priv6.
C'est dans ce cadre que des contacts furent renoues separement avec RATP, puis avec
TRANDEV.
Cependant, durant tout ce cycle de negociations, le service minimum de transport par bus, assur6
par le Liquidateur de la SOTRAC ne cessait de se degrader pour finalement s'arreter, rendant plus
difficile le d6placement des populations.
Devant cette situation, les pouvoirs publics prirent la decision de creer la Societe Dakar Dem
DIKK, societe anonyme au capital de 1,5 milliard de FCFA. Les operateurs prives ne s'etant pas
suffisamment manifestes, l'Etat s'est vu dans l'obligation de porter 60% du capital de la societe,
pour permettre le d6marrage de ses activites au ler janvier 200.
- 27 -



Le schema retenu, de dissocier l'investissement de l'exploitation et de scinder le reseau en deux
(reseau de base et reseau de banlieue) a et6 abandonne avec la creation de la societe Dakar Dem
Dikk.
2.3.4. La professionnalisation de 1'exploitation des cars rapides
La principale action a port6 sur l'organisation des transporteurs de la region de Dakar, en
groupements d'intret economique. Ces groupements, au nombre de douze (12), se sont
constitues en une association de fmancement pour pouvoir beneficier des conditions
concessionnelles necessaires au renouvellement voire a l'extension du parc de transport collectif
urbain.
Les douze GIE r6unissent 446 transporteurs pour un parc de 1357 cars rapides.
Ces GIE sont appel6s A devenir, A terme, des societes viables pour exploiter de maniere reguliere
les itineraires qui leur seront concedes selon de nouvelles methodes d'exploitation mettant
progressivement l'accent sur la rationalisation, la transparence et la rigueur dans la gestion.
III - APPRECIATION DU PROJET
Le projet de reforme et de renforcement des capacites en matiere de transport urbain est concu
pour etre le premier jalon de la r6forme.
Si des resultats probants ont ete atteints, il reste entendu que des faiblesses ont et notees dans les
differentes phases du projet, notamment par rapport A la conception, aux objectifs vises et A
1'execution proprement dite.
3.1. Au plan de la conception
Le projet a le m6rite d'avoir touche A tous les domaines du sous-secteur des transports urbains de
Dakar, bien que l'accent ait davantage e  mis sur le renforcement institutionnel et la capacit6
d'expertise.
Il a eu egalement pour merite de faire participer dans sa conception, selon une demarche
concertee les acteurs prives et les acteurs publics concernes par le secteur avec la participation des
partenaires au developpement.
Cependant, il a et note un certain manque de realisme dans la definition des indicateurs de
performance qui n'ont pas permis de rendre compte valablement des progres et des avancees du
projet.
3.2. Au plan de la realisation des objectifs
Malgre l'echec dans la privatisation de la SOTRAC et dans la mise en place du FDTU, les
objectifs assignes au projet ont e  globalement atteints. L'expertise du CETUD en matiere de
- 28 -



transport urbain a et renforcee, le cadre de partenariat erntre les acteurs publics et les acteurs
prives conceems par le sous-secteur s'est d6velopp-. tout au long de la vie du projet au sein de
l'Assemblee pleniere du CETUD et des groupes de cotncertation. Les quelques infrastructures
realisees, la formation des chauffeurs ainsi que la sensibilisation du grand public en matiere de
s6curite routiere, et une meilleure connaissance du secteur, toutes ces actions ont contribue A
l'amelioration des conditions d'exploitation des transports collectifs.
Cependant, l'objectif principal du projet visant a ailder a la inise en place, dans l'agglomeration
urbaine de Dakar, de services de transport public qui solent fiables, secuntaires et abordables pour
les usagers, de facon globale, reste encore A poursuivre malgre les quelques points positifs
enregistres dans l'execution des differentes actions. Se pose toujours le probl&me du realisme dans
de la definition des objectifs et des indicateurs de perfomiance. au dela de la mise en coherence du
plan strategique.
3.3. Au plan de 1'execution du projet
L'execution du projet s'est deroulee dans le temps inparti, apres la prorogation de la date de
cl6ture du 30 decembre 2000 au 30 juin 2001. Les actions identifiees ont et6 realisees, A quelques
exceptions pres, pour des raisons d'inopportunite. ILes decaissements ont e  satisfaisants A la
phase finale de la realisation du projet.
Les agences d'execution et les organismes intervenant clans l'execution du projet se sont acquittes
de leur mission avec satisfaction. Quelques difficults ovt cependant 6te enregistrees.
Concemant le CETUD, il est apparu la necessite de proceder au renforcement du personnel. Au
fur et A mesure de son enracinement dans le tisstu institutionnel. le CETUD, au-delA de son r6le
d'agence d'execution, est interpelle sur les diverses questions de transport, de circulation et de
securite routiere. Avec le personnel tres reduit. le CE-rUD a eprouvc des difficultes A satisfaire
toutes les sollicitations qui concement le sous-secteur.
Vis A vis de l'AGETIP, il a ete note quelques retards dans le deroulement des chantiers et parfois
la reticence des populations a recevoir l'edification (le tel ou tel autre ouvrage. Des travaux ont
meme e  arretes, ce qui pose le probleme de la prise en compte des points de vue des populations
dans la phase etude d'avant projet sommaire, dans son volet impact environnemental. Le CETUD
devra y veiller particulierement.
Du point de vue des decaissements, I'affectation, au CE1UD, d'un Agent Comptable particulier
n'a pas eu pour effet d'accelerer les paiements.
Cette affectation d'agents comptables particuliers. pour assurer la gestion comptable du projet,
n'a pas toujours facilite la tache du CETUD. Ces derniers n'ont pas eu l'experience necessaire,
notamment dans les procedures de la Banque mondiale. Cette situation a et aggravee durant la
vie du projet, par le changement d'Agent Comptable particulier A deux reprises.
Des lenteurs ont e   observees dans le processus de prise de decisions avec le consensus
- 29 -



recherche autant que possible, la necessaire implication des acteurs, en l'occurrence, les
transporteurs, les chauffeurs, les usagers et autres. Cela participe cependant au renforcement des
capacites et au developpement du partenariat.
Vis a vis de la Banque, il y a lieu de souligner l'appui important qu'elle a accorde au projet dans
son execution. Les missions de supervision ont ete l'occasion de surmonter certaines difficultes
qui auraient pu entraver la conduite du projet. La convention avec 1'AGETIP a fait l'objet d'un
avenant dans le souci d'accelrer les travaux de genie civil.
La souplesse adoptee dans le management du projet a permis de geler certaines actions non
prioritaires gelees au profit d'actions plus appropriees.
Les avis de non-objection de l'IDA ont e traites avec diligence ; le charge de projet etant en
communication permanente avec l'equipe du projet.
Les decaissements, ainsi que les demandes de re-alimentation du compte special ont connu
quelques defaillances aussi bien du c6te de l'emprunteur que de l'IDA. Les demandes de
re-alimentation n'ont pas e  declenchees de facon reguliere. Cela a souvent pose le probleme de
rupture de fonds au niveau du compte sp6cial, de retard de paiement et parfois de reclamation de
la part des prestataires de services.
Une fois declenchee par le projet, les demandes de re-alimentation mettent du temps a etre
honorees, vu le circuit a respecter.
En ce qui conceme les procedures de passation de marche, le projet a beneficie d'un decret
d'assouplissement des proc6dures, ce qui a contribue a reduire les delais de signature des contrats.
IV - EXPERIENCE A TIRER DU PROJET
De l'evaluation du projet, il apparait aussi bien des resultats qui peuvent etre consideres comme
des acquis a consolider, et des difficultes qu'il convient de surmonter.
Parmi les acquis, il y a lieu de citer tout d'abord le developpement du partenariat.
Le CETUD constitue le veritable cadre de concertation entre les acteurs publics et prives. Cette
concertation a ete fortement appreciee par les uns et les autres. I1 conviendra d'ameliorer le cadre
en suscitant davantage le comportement de partenaire et non de simple participant. La mise en
place du Fonds de developpement des transports urbains et de la Charte sur la Mobilite urbaine
devra contribuer a cela.
Un autre acquis est celui du developpement des ressources humaines. I1 conviendra de developper
ce volet de la r6forme, en elargissant son cadre aux 6lus locaux pour une meilleure prise en
compte des questions de transport urbain, par les collectivites locales et aux operateurs de
transport. A ces demiers, il faudra assurer une formation pour la mise en place de nouvelles
methodes d'exploitation et de gestion. Aux personnels a bord des vehicule, il faudra une
- 30 -



amelioration des conditions de travail dans un cadre plus forrnel et un relevement du niveau de
formation sur les questions de securite routiere, de comportement avec les usagers, de conduite
economique, etc.
Des difficultes ont pu etre notees, notamnment en ce qui concerne le processus de privatisation de
la SOTRAC. Il apparait que le secteur n'est pas attrayant pour des partenaires strategiques. Il
faudra, pour la privatisation de 1'exploitation du secteur, compter davantage sur le prive local et
mettre l'accent sur les conditions d'une concurrence intermodale saine et les mecanismes pour une
juste couverture des charges reelles d'exploitation. La professionnalisation du secteur, la
clarification des relations entre les pouvoirs publics et les operateurs, le renouvellement du parc
des transports urbains, la mise a disposition d'infrastructures et d'equipements de promotion des
transports collectifs devront concourir a cet objectif.
En ce qui conceme la realisation des infrastructures et equipements de transport urbain, il est
indispensable, dans la phase de conception, d'integrer l'etude d'impact environnemental qui, a
travers la pratique des audiences publiques, permettrait d'eviter les incomprehensions avec les
populations, pour leur adhesion au projet.
Concernant l'agence d'execution, il a ete note un deficit en personnel pour faire face aux diverses
missions attendues du CETUD. Des dispositions devront etre prises pour eviter pareilles
situations.
Du point de vue des decaissements, avec les lenteurs constatees, en plus de l'acquisition de
progiciel de comptabilite, il conviendra de renforcer l'effectif de l'agence comptable par un
comptable permanent, pour les besoins du projet, et dont les capacites sont averees.
Il convient enfin de noter que l'impact a long terme du projet sur le secteur ne pourra etre
valablement apprecie qu'a travers le Programme d'Amelioration de la Mobilite urbaine
(2002-2008) dont l'objectif est la consolidation des acquis des actions entarnees par le projet de
reforme et des renforcement des capacites d'expertise en matiere de transport urbain.
- 31 -



