Report No. PIC4620
Project Name                        Senegal-Urban Transport Reform and...
Capacity Building Project
Region                              Africa
Sector                              Urban Transport
Project ID                          SNPA44383
Borrower                            Republic of Senegal
Implementing Agency                 Ministry of Equipment and Land
Transport
CETUD, Dakar, Senegal
Contact: Mr. M. Ndiaye, Director of
Land Transport
Tel: 221 24 78 17
Fax: 2221 24 78 20
Date initial PID prepared           May 1, 1996
Date revised PID prepared           January 13, 1997
Projected Appraisal date            January 20, 1997
Projected Board date                June 10, 1997
Country Background
1.   Senegal is a Sahelian country with limited natural resources and a
population of 8.3 million in 1995. Social indicators, such as life
expectancy, primary school enrolent rate and infant mortality are at the
lower end of the range recorded in sub-Saharan Africa. Per capita GDP,
which was estimated at US$ 610 in 1994, places Senegal at the level of
middle-income countries.
2.   Senegal's economic performance during its first 30 years of
independence (1960-1991) has been disappointing. Population grew at 3
percent per annum, while GDP grew at only 2.5 percent. Senegal's
agricultural base has been steadily deteriorating because of poor
weather conditions and resource management. Industrial production grew
at 4.5 percent per annum between 1960 and 1985, and at 4.1 percent
between 1986 and 1991. Export performance during this period compared
unfavorably with most other West African countries and averaged only 2.4
percent growth per annum.
3.   In an attempt to reverse this economic deterioration, the
Government adopted a series of adjustment measures, including cuts in
public sector wages and the devaluation of the CFA Franc by 50 percent
in January 1994, and started to implement a medium-term strategy for the
development of the private sector. As a result, real GDP is estimated
to have grown by 4.8 percent in 1995, led in part by exports of fish,
groundnut products and phosphate, and expansion of tourism. In the non-
tradables sector, however, a number of parastatals suffered, including
the Senegalese Railways, Air Senegal and Societe des Transports en
commun du Cap Vert (SOTRAC), the bus company. The increased cost of



imported fuel and a decrease in the number of passengers carried led to
a decrease in net revenues, that impacted both the public and private
sector operators.
Urban Transport Sector Background
4.   The urban population in Senegal has steadily increased from 30
percent of the total population in 1970 to an estimated 42 percent in
1994, and is projected to increase to 45 percent by the year 2000.
Overall, the national urban population is currently growing at an
average rate of 3.7 percent. Most of the urban population is
concentrated in these regions in the west of the country: Dakar, Thijs
and Kaolack. The population of the metropolitan area of Dakar (nearly
two million inhabitants in 1994) where a substantial proportion of
Senegal's economic activities is concentrated (86 percent of its
industries and 92 percent of the financial services) 1994) has a yearly
growth rate of 5 percent.
5.   The metropolitan area of Dakar consists of three major poles
stretched along 30 kilometers of the Cap Vert peninsula. These poles
include the city of Dakar itself, where 63 percent of the jobs are
located, and two 'bedroom' communities of Pikine-Guediawaye and
Rufisque. As a result, there is a massive daily traffic of commuters.
About two million daily trips occur in Dakar, half of them involving
motorized transport vehicles.
6.   The urban transport sector accounts for seven percent of Senegal's
GDP and generates about 32,000 jobs in Dakar with an estimated 30,000
jobs provided through the privately owned vehicles and taxi services.
Public transport also plays a major role in the urban economy by
facilitating access to places of employment and the market. In Dakar,
74 percent of the home-work trips are motorized due to the long distance
to be covered. Within the motorized transport mode, 70 percent are made
using public transport services, which is one of the highest percentages
in sub-Saharan Africa. These public transport services are provided by
the private sector (the Cars Rapides--small owner/operators--consisting
of a fleet of about 2,000 18- seater buses), a parastatal bus company
(SOTRAC, with a fleet of 200 buses), the Senegalese Railways, Petit
Train Bleu (the PTB), and taxis (registered and unregistered). SOTRAC,
created in 1971, is a 65-percent state-owned company, with foreign
partners owing the remainder 35 percent. SOTRAC's market's share (61
percent) is made up largely of civil servants and students riding on
reduced fare or riding free. Management performance is weak, and the
company is a burden on the public budget (US$20 million over a three-
year period). Successive performance contracts 'contrats-plans' between
the State and SOTRAC, aimed at improving SOTRAC's efficiency, have not
met their objectives.
Urban Transport Reforms
7.   The urban transport sector which has played a significant role in
the urban, economic and social development of Senegal, is now facing a
major crisis, particular in Dakar under the combined effects of: (a)
diffused responsibilities (planning and regulation in the urban
transport sector ministries with poor technical expertise); (b) weak
-2 -



financial and managerial capacities; (c) an ineffective regulatory
framework; (d) rapid urban population growth; (e) lack of intermodal
coordination; and (f) traffic congestion. As a result, commuter rides
take longer and are more hazardous. In addition, due to the lack of
pedestrians facilities, weak law enforcement and insufficient road
safety measures, the number of traffic accidents involving pedestrians
has increased significantly during the last decade.
8.   To find sustainable solutions, the Government of Senegal (GOS) has
made a major effort to design reforms in the urban transport sector with
broad participation of various stakeholders. This effort was undertaken
under the leadership of an ad-hoc Committee (the 'Comite de Suivi des
Transports Urbains') set up under the auspices of the Ministry of
Equipment and Land Transport in May 1993 and with support from the World
Bank through the sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy Program (SSATP).
A draft Urban Transport Policy was issued by the Comite de Suivi in July
1995 and debated during a national policy seminar in September 1995 at
which most stakeholders and donors participated. Based on the
recommendations of this seminar and further sector dialogue in September
1996, the GOS issued a Letter of Urban Transport Sector Policy, defining
its strategy for the sector. This strategy is based on a comprehensive
approach covering the institutional, regulatory, financial, managerial
and social aspects of the urban transport crisis The government (GOS)
has requested the Bank's assistance to implement these reforms.
Project Objectives
9.   The main objective of the operation is to provide more affordable,
reliable and safer public transport services in the metropolitan area of
Dakar. This objective will be pursued through: (i) the strengthening of
the institutional and regulatory framework and the development of a
coordination mechanism between the public and the private actors
(operators, national and local agencies); (ii) the privatization the
public transport company, the SOTRAC; (iii) stakeholders' involvement in
the decision-making and regulation process; (iv) the development of road
safety action plans and traffic management measures in the metropolitan
area of Dakar; and (v) pilot investments targeted on the promotion of
public transport services.
Project Description
10. The project will consist of consultant's services and short-term
technical assistance for implementing the policy and institutional
reform defined by the Government of Senegal in the Urban Transport
Policy Letter dated September , 1996. The main component of the
proposed operation (US$3.1 million) is the strengthening of the capacity
building including training, awareness campaign and advisory services
for: (i) central and local government agencies for policy development;
(ii) assistance to the privatization of SOTRAC, including the assistance
to the development of a leasing scheme for the urban transport operators
and the revision of the regulatory framework for urban transport
services; and (iii) sector coordination and participation through the
establishment and management of a coordinating body, the Conseil
Executif des Transports Urbains de Dakar (CETUD), as well as the
establishment and functioning of a sustainable financing mechanism for
-3 -



the sector through the Fonds de Developpement des Transports Urbains
(FDTU).
11. Complementary to the capacity building package, a physical
component (US$2.0 million) will be carried out through pilot investments
in favor of the public transport services, such as rehabilitation of bus
stops/shelters, bus lane arrangements, fitting of encroachments,
ntermodal slots, and traffic management measures.
Project Financing
12. The project cost is estimated at US$7.5 million. IDA would finance
US$5.1 million. The contribution from the Government of Senegal would
be US$2.4 million, through its financial participation to the FDTU for
the next three years. Following upon the Letter of Urban Transport
Sector Policy issued in September 1996, the Caisse Frangaise de
Developpement (CFD) has expressed its intention to finance the purchase
of second-hand buses for the sector (future privatized SOTRAC and the
Cars Rapides) as well as investments in urban infrastructures. The
European Union (EU) is considering its intervention in the financing of
urban infrastructures. Both intentions are expected to be confirmed at
appraisal.
Project Implementation
13. The project would be implemented in 36 months. The Ministry of
Equipment and Land Transport (MELT) would be the supervisory Ministry.
The CETUD, under the technical tutelage of the MELT and the financial
tutelage of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan (MEFP) would act
as the Implementing Agency. The civil works component would be carried
out by AGETIP under an agreement with the CETUD. The project will be
implemented according to a Project Implementation Manual to be agreed at
negotiations.
Project sustainability
14. The project contains policy and institutional components which are
designed to ensure sustainability of the sector development and
investments. Project sustainability would be ensured through (a) the
implementation of the institutional reform by the CETUD which gathers
the main actors of the sector and will be an effective tool for
regulated and coordinated urban transport services and (b) the
establishment and working of the FDTU which will provide a sustainable
financing mechanism for the development of the urban mobility through
sector contribution.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
15. IDA has been involved in the transport and urban sectors in Senegal
since 1966 with 19 completed projects in the area of roads, railways,
ports, civil aviation and infrastructure. These completed projects and
the ongoing transport structural/adjustment project (Cr. 2266-SE) has
made important contributions to the operational and financial
performance of the railways and port subsectors. The ongoing third
urban project, Municipal and Housing Development Project (Cr. 1884-SE)
-4 -



has partially addressed Dakar's transport infrastructure needs through
the construction of a new intermodal station ('Ilot Peterson') and a
traffic management action plan, both in Dakar City that is complemented
by AGETIP's activities in roads projects in Dakar, which has been
carried out mainly by the private sector. Previous experience with
transport projects as well as urban projects in Senegal hold the
following useful lessons: (i) essential to success of any sector
development is the need to strengthen institutional and regulatory
expertise; (ii) stakeholders' participation is essential to ensure
ownership of the project; (iii) sustainable provision of domestic
funding is essential to ensure long-term investment in the urban
transport sector; and (iv) there is a need for increased private sector
participation. These lessons have been incorporated in the project
design through sustained dialogue between IDA, GOS, officials of the
local authorities, urban transport operators and donors involved in the
sector.
Environmental aspects
16. The project has a "C" environmental rating. Overall, it would have
a beneficial impact on the environment. Traffic management investments
and measures would help relieve congestion, resulting in lower emissions
of pollutants per vehicle. The emphasis placed on public transport is
expected to maintain an efficient and sustained model of urban
development in the metropolitan area of Dakar.
Program Objective Category
17. Private Sector Development. The project will promote sustained
participation of the private sector in the provision of urban transport
services, leading to increased efficiency and urban productivity.
Capacity Building. The project will remedy the institutional
fragmentation in the urban transport sector. Poverty alleviation. This
objective will be pursued through (a) the extended provision of public
transport services affecting mainly the urban poor, (b) the involvement
of the informal sector (Cars Rapides) in the project because of the
entrepreneurial and income generating possibilities that it offers to
the poor, and (c) the execution of the pilot operation in civil works,
using labor-based methods, which will promote the development of local
small and medium size contractors.
Project Benefits
18. The proposed credit would have a major leverage impact in pushing
the reform agenda for the critical urban transport sector, with benefits
far outweighing the relatively small amount of financing sought.
Through such leveraging, the project will also increase the efficiency,
reliability and safety of urban public transport services in Dakar. It
will improve the access of the urban poor to public transport services,
reduce passenger transport costs and improve the performance and
competitiveness of the urban economy. Specifically, benefits expected
from the project are: (a) better sector management through strengthening
capacity of local staff, the coordination among ministries, municipal
agencies and the transport industry within the CETUD; (b) substantial
reduction of the fiscal burden of the sector --without the privatization
- 5 -



of SOTRAC, the level of state intervention in the enterprise, based on
the latest contrat-plan, is estimated to be at US$20 million for the
next three years; (c) reduction in urban transport costs, travel time,
traffic congestion and accidents through traffic management measures
resulting in an overall increase in the performance of the urban
economy; (d) extended access to the urban transport services for the
poor, improving their access to job and market opportunities; and (e)
sustainable financing for the development of the urban transport
services through the FDTU and contributions of the main actors in the
sector.
Projects Risks
19. The risks are: (a) delays in the privatization process of SOTRAC
because of political or trade union's pressure. However, the donor-
supported approach, developed within the SSATP, will permit investments
in the urban transport sector only after successful reform
implementation; this should convince the GOS to take actions to
implement the reform according to the agreed timetable and mitigate the
risk of postponement in the privatization. The law authorizing the
State to privatize SOTRAC is due to be passed in January 1997 prior to
credit negotiations; (b) lack of private sector contribution to the
FDTU. The project will help reinforce the consensus achieved among the
actors on the advantage of such a contribution, without increasing the
level of taxes. The participation in the decision-making of the CETUD
should convince the transport industry of the effectiveness of the FDTU
and their contribution; (c) delays in the establishment of the CETUD.
This risk is relatively minor as there is already a consensus to set up
a coordinating body in the sector. This consensus has been built all
along during project preparation, within the SSATP dialogue framework.
The law establishing the CETUD is due to be passed in January 1997 prior
to credit negotiations and CETUD is expected to be functioning by then.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending January 17, 1997.
- 6 -



