Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14395-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
JUNE 6, 1995
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 12, 1995)1
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$0,91 = US$1.00
R$1,00 = US$1.10
R$1 million = US$1.1 million
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Ceara)
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
Appraisal mission.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APCR              Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the original
Northeast Rural Development Program)
ATER              Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension)
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
DEPES              Departamento de Programas Especiais
(Department of Special Programs of the State Secretariat of Planning and
Coordination)
EMATER            Empresa de Assistencia Tenica e Extensao Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
FAO/CP            World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC             Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitario
(Municipal Community Schemes)
FUMAC-P           Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario - Piloto
(Pilot Municipal Community Funds)
GOB               Governo Federal do Brasil
(Federal Government of Brazil)
IBAMA             Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovaveis
(Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources)
IBGE               Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
ICB               Licitagao Internacional
(International Competitive Bidding)



IICA               Instituto Interamericano de Coopera,co para a Agricultura
(Inter-american Institute for Agricultural Cooperation)
IPEA               Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research of the Ministry of Planning of the
Presidency of the Republic)
IPLANCE            Funda,co Instituto de Planejamento do Ceara
(Planning Institute of Ceara)
MIS                Sistema Gerencial de Informa,oes
(Management Information System)
NCB                Licita,ao Nacional
(National Competitive Bidding)
NGO                Organizagco Nao-Governamental
(Non-Governmental Organization)
NRDP               Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural
(Northeast Rural Development Program)
O&M                Opera,co e Manutengco
(Operation and Maintenance)
PAC                Programa de Apoio Comunitario
(State Community Schemes)
PCU                Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto
(Project Coordinating Unit)
POA                Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
POLONORDESTE  Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Development Program)
PPR                Physical Performance Review
SAS                Secretaria de Trabalho e Agco Social
(Ceara State Secretariat of Labor and Social Action)
SEAIN              Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning
of the Presidency of the Republic)



SEARA              Secretaria de Agricultura e Reforma Agraria
(Ceara State Secretariat of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform)
SEBRAE             Servi,o Brasileiro de Apoio a Pequena e Media Empresa
(Brazilian Service for Support to Small and Medium Size Enterprises)
SEPLAN             Secretaria do Planejamento e Coordena,co
(Ceara State Secretariat of Planning and Coordination)
SOEs               Prestac,o de Contas
(Statements of Expenditure)
SSMP               Sistema Simplificado de Monitoramento do Projeto
(Simplified Project Monitoring System)
UNICEF             Fundo das Nacoes Unidas para a Infancia
(United Nations Children's Fund)
UT                 Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)






BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN  AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ............................   i
I.   RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND CEARA  ... .... 1
The Rural Poor and the Economy  ..............................  1
Rural Poverty in the Northeast ................................  1
Experience with Past Bank Lending .............................  3
The State of Ceara .            ....................................... 5
Main Lessons Learned from  the Northeast Rural Development Program    ...                ...  7
II.  THE PROJECT                         ..........................                                    9
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................... .                            9
Project Objectives                                     ..                                      9
Project Components                                      ..                                    10
A. Community Subprojects .......................... 10
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC)  ....                     ........... 10
Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P)  ....                   ........ 11
State Community Schemes (PAC) ..................... 11
B. Institutional Development ............................ 12
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation   ....                ........ 13
Decentralization and Targeting         ...............             ................. 14
Decentralization       .................              ................... 14
Project  Targeting   ....................................  14
Project Coordination Arrangements            .............           ................ 14
Project Coordinating Unit  .............................. 14
Project Municipal Councils  ............................. 16
This report incorporates the findings of a Bank mission which visited Brazil in March-April 1995. The
mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. L. Coirolo (Mission Leader, Portfolio Manager), T. Barbosa (Task
Manager, Economist), R. Caminha (Agriculturalist), J. Barbosa (Agriculturalist), M. Rieth (Economist),
J. van Zyl (Agricultural Economist), L. Sonn (Economist, FAO/CP), J.C. Sallier (Civil Engineer,
Consultant) and V. Valle (Staff Assistant). The report also benefited from contributions from A. Roumani
(Rural Development Specialist) and C. Bryant (Institutional Specialist). The Division Chief is M. Wilson
(LAINR) and the Department Director, G. T. Nankani (LAIDR). Peer reviewers are J. Tendler
(Professor of Political Economy - MIT) and T. Jones (LAIHR).



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Project Implementation  Arrangements    ...........................  16
Community  Subproject Cycle   ............................  16
Project Operational Manual ............................. 18
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) ........................ 18
Operational Checks and Balances .......................... 18
Monitoring    ....................................... 18
Project Costs    .......................................... 19
Financing  Plan    ......................................... 19
Procurement .........................................   21
Disbursements and Special Account ............................. 23
Accounts and Audits ...................................... 23
Environmental Aspects .................................... 24
Poverty Category ........................................ 24
Women's Participation ..................................... 25
Project Benefits ......................................... 25
Project Risks .......................................... 26
III.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . 27
ANNEXES:
1.    Socio-Economic Indicators .................................. 29
2.    The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation .............. .  31
3.        Targeting  Mechanisms and  Project Municipalities   ....................  52
4.        Institutional Development  ...................................  56
5.        The  FUMAC-P  Pilot Program    ................................  61
6.    Subproject Operation and Maintenance ........................... 64
7.    Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation ...................... 66
8.        Project Costs, Financing  Plan  and  Disbursement Schedule   ...............  74
9.         Project Operational Manual (Outline)  ............................  78
10.   Supervision Plan ........................................ 80
11.   List of Documents Available in Project Files ....................... 82
MAP: IBRD No. 26946



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Boirower:                      State of Ceara
Guarantor:                     Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:           Department of Special Programs (DEPES) of the State
Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN)
Beneficiaries:                 Poor rural community associations, including a target
population of 675,000 (about 135,000 families)
Poverty:                       Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                        US$70 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:                0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                See Annex 8, Table 8.2
Economic Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 14395-BR
Map:                           IBRD No. 26946
Project Identification No.:    BR-PA-38884






I. RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL. THE NORTHEAST AND CEARA
The Rural Poor ano the Economy
1.1         Poverty in Brazil has a strong rural and regional dimension. About 50 percent
of the Brazilian poor live in rural areas, and the incidence of poverty among the rural population
is more than eouble that in large cities and urban areas. Economic instability over the past two
decades has been a major obstacle to redressing rural poverty. The implicit tax resulting from
inflation has penalized the poor disproportionately. Real economic growth fell from 9%
annually in the 1970s to 2.7% in the 1980s, and for more than a decade there was little
improvement in standards of living. Economic and sectoral policies did not provide support for
sustainable investment and, as a consequence, savings fell, inflation accelerated, and consumer
prices incre2sed as mur h as 30% a month. Six separate attempts at adjustment between 1986
and 1994 failed. Austerity programs associated with the different adjustment attempts cut back
investment for rural development, in particular for primary education, targeted health
interventionL, rural roads, water supply and small fanner agricultural services. Migration from
rural areas in the 1980s and early 1990s--motivated by unemployment, underemployment and
lack of so_;ial and other services--created an enormous new burden on urban centers, and
underscored the urgency of addressing rural poverty to stem its conversion into an urban poverty
phenomenon.
1.2         Introduction of the Plano Real in July 1994 has achieved some degree of
macroeconomic stabilization, with the annual inflation rate already decreasing to a fraction of
its former level. However, in the short to medium term, stabilization also implies a very strong
fiscal adjustment with tightening of government expenditures, high real interest rates and, hence,
a deepening of the investment pause in the farm and rural sector. The consequences in terms
of rural employment and social services may be quite serious, and clearly call for offsetting
safety net actions. While successful macroeconomic adjustment should promote longer-term
economic growth with benefits extending to rural areas, international experience shows that
targeted programs and policies for the socio-economic development of the poor remain an
essential complement to the adjustment process.'
Rural Poverty in the Northeast
1.3         The Northeast has long constituted the single largest area of rural poverty in Latin
America. This Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth,2 accounts for 19% of Brazil's
total land area and 30% of its 147 million population. More than half of all Brazilians living
in poverty, and almost two-thirds of the country's rural poor, live in the Northeast. According
1.    Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, March 31, 1995.
2.    The Northeast Region includes the States of MaranhAo, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia and the northern part of the State of Minas Gerais.



- 2 -
to a recent study by the Ministry of Planning and Budget, some 12 million rural inhabitants of
the Northeast live in extreme poverty, with annual per capita incomes under US$214 (less than
one-tenth of the national average). Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the
Northeast are the relatively poor resource base of large parts of the region and variable agro-
climatic conditions which make them vulnerable to drought. Skewed access to land and the
virtual absence of a functioning rural financial system for the poor are additional constraints.
Northeast agriculture is characterized by limited input use and slow rates of technology adoption.
Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half that of other regions. Overall
Northeast agricultural GDP growth was negligible during 1991-1994.
1.4          About 40% of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone
characterized by poor soils and severe, cyclical and often protracted drought. The "drought
polygon" in the semi-arid region includes most of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco and Bahia, and smaller proportions of all the other Northeastern states except
Maranhao. The remainder of the rural population lives in areas which are generally more humid
and have better soils, the coastal belt and the drought-prone transitional zone between the coast
and the semi-arid area. The rural economy revolves around food crops including fruits and
vegetables, extensive livestock grazing by larger farmers, and, as a consequence of the uncertain
climate and market fluctuations, basic food production and small-scale animal husbandry by
tenants, sharecroppers, landless laborers and small farm owners.  The rural poor in the
Northeast rely increasingly on a complex of activities--traditional subsistence agriculture, cash
crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual agricultural and non-agricultural work, and remittances
from family members living in cities.
1.5          Health and social indicators attest to the poor quality of life in the Northeast,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (i) an infant mortality rate of 75 per 1000 live
births, compared to a national average of 58; (ii) a rate of child malnutrition at 27% (of children
under five), compared to 13% nationwide; (iii) a literacy rate for heads of household of 56%,
compared to 78% nationwide; (iv) 57% of households lacking water supply compared to 28%
nationwide; and (v) 73% of households without access to proper sanitation facilities, compared
to 46% nationwide.3
1.6          The new Brazilian administration is preoccupied with the level of poverty
nationwide, but particularly in the Northeast and its rural areas, and has declared the Northeast
a priority for public development programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's effort
to combat poverty and hunger in Brazil is the recently announced Comunidade Solidtaria
program, a broad framework for the coordination of rural and urban poverty programs and
projects, focusing on municipalities where poverty is most severe. Implementation would be
decentralized, stressing community self-help and local empowerment, and concentrating on four
main themes: rural development, income and employment generation, food and nutrition, and
urban services. The proposed Ceara Rural Poverty Alleviation Project is fully consistent with
this strategy, parts of which draw heavily on the Bank-supported NRDP experience in Northeast
Brazil (paras. 1.12-1.16).
3. Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, March 31, 1995.



- 3 -
1.7         The proposed project would also be a timely complement to important changes
in the political eccnomy of Brazil, stemming from the new federalism embodied in the
Constitution of 1988.  Fiscal resources, priority setting and program  implementation
responsibilities are increasingly being decentralized from the Federal Government to the states,
municipalities and local populations. This encouraging trend should help avoid many of the
financial and managerial problems which generations of Northeast poverty programs encountered
under centralized coordination and implementation arrangements. Much of the Bank's dialogue
and lending for poverty, including in rural development, health and education, have now shifted
to the states, with the role of the Federal Government being relefined to stress more strategic
functions, such as broad policy and norm setting and financial transfer schemes to improve
equity.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
1.8         The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
finarncing sehemes to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. The World Bank has been
associated for many years with these efforts, through its financing of a series of programs and
projects, including area-specific and state rural development projects, various sectoral operations
and a regional ruial development program.
1.9         Historically, rural development programs in the Northeast have coalesced around
two themes: drought relief and the integrated development of selected areas. The first involved
emergency relief programs or projects to increase the productivity of scarce water resources,
including large public irrigation schemes. While the budgetary impact of these projects has been
tremendous, their poverty effects have been limited and often temporary. The second approach,
that of integrated subregional development programs, included initiatives like the Sertanejo
project and the Bank-financed POLONORDESTE projects of the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.10        POLONORDESTE. The POLONORDESTE operations concentrated on specific
microregions within each of the nine Northeast states and northern Minas Gerais. They were
comprehensive, multisectoral projects designed to improve agricultural efficiency, raise rural
incomes and increase employment. They typically included components for agricultural
modernization (extension, research, credit, marketing, land administration), infrastructure (rural
water supply, roads and irrigation) and social investments (education, health and community
development).    Many  important sectoral initiatives  were  first piloted  under the
POLONORDESTE projects: farm management extension techniques; integrated farm unit
research for small-scale agriculture, rather than crop-based research; a wide range of land
redistribution initiatives and modem land titling technologies; educational curriculum and school
calendar reforms for rural areas; and community-based primary health care schemes.
1.11        Nevertheless, evaluation of POLONORDESTE by the Bank in the early 1980s
showed that, in the aggregate, they had only a limited impact on poverty. The micro-regions
supported by the Bank projects were relatively small areas in the context of the whole Northeast;
poverty targeting mechanisms were weak; and delivery mechanisms relied exclusively on federal
and state bureaucracies.  The Federal Government frequently failed to provide adequate



- 4 -
counterpart funds and delayed the release of budgeted amounts, with damaging effects on the
projects given Brazil's chronically high inflation. Consequently, less than one-third of project
funds reached intended beneficiaries, as seriously reduced budgets were absorbed by
administration and overheads.
1.12        Sectoral Loans and the Northeast Rural Development Program.   These
considerations prompted the Bank and Federal Government to change strategies in the mid-
1980s.  On the one hand, the lessons learned from  some of the pilot efforts under
POLONORDESTE were promising, but it was felt that these needed to be expanded
geographically and supported by broader sector policy reforms, within the framework of single-
sector operations unencumbered by the coordination and implementation difficulties of multiple
components. A series of sectoral operations, such as Northeast land titling, education, health
and irrigation, resulted in the next few years.
1.13        With respect to integrated rural development, this approach was still considered
to be a viable and necessary approach but, again, it was felt that the effort should be expanded
statewide in order to have a broader impact, and that the number of components should be
drastically reduced. As a result, in 1985, the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP)
was established to alleviate rural poverty and improve the living standards of small farm families
in the Northeast. Under this program, the Bank approved during 1985-87 individual loans for
the ten states in an amount totalling US$826.7 million. But, through 1993, with the exception
of one component supporting small community projects (known as the APCR), implementation
of the NRDP lagged behind schedule and performance in meeting basic objectives was weak.
Some of the main causes were strikingly similar to the causes of poor performance under the
earlier POLONORDESTE projects: chronic fiscal deficits and other macroeconomic distortions
led to almost constant counterpart funding shortages and widespread deterioration of many of
the public institutions responsible for carrying out the NRDP.  The Federal Government
devolved some responsibilities to the states, but, by and large, institutional arrangements were
still highly centralized. Decision-making, administration and financing arrangements were
generally non-participatory, and the sense of project "ownership" at both state and local levels
was limited.
1.14        On the other hand, the innovative APCR  community-based components
(para. 1.13), which relied on local planning and implementation, stressed community
organization and contracted out needed technical expertise, were noticeably more successful.
They acknowledged the expressed needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was
positive, the cost per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded
those of other components.
1.15        Reformulated NRDP.  On the Bank's initiative, in 1993 the NRDP was
reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a community-based development program,
drawing both on the successful experience of the APCR small community projects component
and on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, particularly the
Mexican Solidaridad program. Performance has since improved markedly. Rural communities
are participating in the identification, financing and implementation of subprojects that meet their
most pressing needs, increase their sense of project ownership, and have a much sharper focus



- 5 -
on poverty alleviation.  The reformulated NRDP is covering all members of poor rural
communities and not only those with productive assets, extending beyond production and
income, and based on a "matching grant" mechanism linked to beneficiary contribution towards
subproject cost. The State Governments are fully responsible for counterpart funding, and the
corresponding sense of "ownership" of the program has also improved.
1.16         Although only 18 months have passed since the reformulation, based on
implementation so far (as well as the earlier experience of the APCR components), certain facts
are clear. The program has generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and
favorable multiplier effects, and has mobilized additional funds from municipalities and
communities. As much as 95 % of disbursements are reaching targeted beneficiaries, and
diversion of funds for non-intended uses has been sharply reduced. The NRDP's participatory
approach has benefitted community organization and empowerment, increased transparency, and
demonstrated that rural communiities can influence the allocation and use of resources at the
municipal level to alleviate poverty.  Investments funded by the program  have been of
satisfactory quality and less costly than those executed by public agencies.  While the
reformulate(d program does not expect to change the basic agricultural patterns in the Northeast,
it has successfully reached a large number of landless families and land reform beneficiaries.
Several field investigations, surveys and studies have assessed the impact of NRDP. The
consensus, from a broad sample of completed and operational subprojects, is that they have had
a positive impact on the quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects, on employment
and incomes of beneficiaries. They have relieved the effects of a severe drought in 1993.
Implementation of productive subprojects and rural water supply works under the program
enabled those families involved to take fuller advantage of improved climatic conditions in 1994
than was possible for families not participating. A summary evaluation of the reformulated
NRDP is provided in Annex 2.
The State of Ceara
1.17         Ceara is the fourth largest state in the Northeast (148,000 km2) and has a total
population of 6.4 million. The entire state area is considered part of the "drought polygon."
The limited humid areas of Ceara are located in a few fertile highlands. Soil types of medium
and low fertility are found in the semi-arid and infertile coastal areas. Principal agricultural
products include cotton, fruit (principally cashew), beef and milk, beans, corn, sugarcane and
manioc. The state enjoys a long coastline which supports a growing tourist industry and
extensive fishing industry, including exports of lobster.
1.18         In the past two decades, CearA's economy has undergone rapid urbanization and
industrial expansion, leading to a significant concentration of income and economic activity in
the state capital of Fortaleza. Available evidence demonstrates a sharp decline in agriculture's
share of GDP--although the agricultural sector is still vital to the economic well-being of Ceara's
2.2 million rural inhabitants. Rural poverty in Ceara, as elsewhere in the Northeast, is closely
correlated with agro-climatic conditions, the poor natural resource base of the semi-arid zone,
and skewed land distribution. The drought of 1993, which affected nearly three-fourths of the
Northeast and some 12 million people, was particularly devastating in Ceari, where agricultural



- 6 -
output declined by 47.2%. Small farmers lack modem technology and adequate working capital.
Irregular rainfall produces crops of low quality with minimal income-generating capacity. For
the landless wage workers drought eliminates their principal, albeit temporary, source of income
and employment. In search of economic alternatives and social infrastructure that would provide
sustainable living conditions, these vulnerable family groups migrate either temporarily or
permanently to urban centers in the interior or to the capital, where they join the ranks of the
urban informal sector and add to already deteriorating urban conditions.
1.19         Social conditions in rural Ceara are precarious. The rate of indigence4 in the
rural areas is 66.2% (1990); on average, outside of metropolitan Fortaleza there are 940 people
for every physician; the adult illiteracy rate is 59% in rural areas.
1.20         State Government Strategy to Combat Rural Poverty. The State Government of
Ceara is extremely concerned with rural poverty and the increasing pressure of rural migration
on its urban centers. Among the priorities adopted by the current administration are employment
promotion and economic and social development of its rural areas. Employment creation in
rural areas would be achieved through the introduction of sustainable income-generating
alternatives, such as micro- and small enterprises with linkages to agro-industry in urban centers
of the interior, to help reduce the flow of migration. Economic and social development of rural
areas would include the provision of sufficient infrastructure to support these productive
activities and improve the standard of living of the rural population. To maximize efficiency,
implementation of the Government's strategy aims to integrate the actions of all state
Secretariats, coordinated by a Council of Secretaries chaired by the Governor.
1.21        The cornerstone of the Government's strategy is decentralization and participation.
The current administration has embarked on an ambitious plan of decentralization of decision-
making to the municipal level, particularly for social sector policy, and guided by the principle
of strong participation of civil society. The Government is putting into operation 19 Regional
Councils for Sustainable Development, in which municipal and state government officials and
representatives from the civil society would prioritize the development needs of their respective
regions and coordinate government actions using a "bottom-up" approach. At the local levels,
Decentralization Committees would be formed to provide communities with a forum to voice
their priority needs. These needs would be channeled to the Municipal Development Council,
an umbrella organization for government and civil society cooperation in each municipality, and
organized for presentation to the Regional Councils. Through this decentralized mechanism, the
Government intends to focus its resources on activities identified as priorities by the people,
thereby generating a greater poverty alleviation impact with State Government resources.
1.22         Previous Experience with Rural Development Projects. The first generation of
rural development projects in Ceara, under the POLONORDESTE framework, focused on
specific areas of the state, beginning in the Ibiapaba region (Bank Loan 1488-BR) and later
expanding to the regions of Cariri, Sertoes de Quixeramobim, Medio Jaguaribe, Inhamuns,
4.    Defined as the number of families below the official poverty line divided by the total number of
families. 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, 1993.



- 7 -
Salgado ane Baturite. Later, during 1981-86, Ceara implemented the first statewide rural
development project uinder POLONORDESTE. This was followed in 1987 by the NRDP-Ceari
project.  Ceara's performance under these Bank-financed projects, prior to the 1993
reformulation of the NRDP, was generally consistent with the POLONORDESTE and NRDP
project experience (paras. 1.10 to 1.16).
1.23        Since NRDP reformulation and as of February 1995, the Ceara NRDP has
disbursed US$7.4 million. Another US$1.9 million is fully committed, leaving a balance of
US$9.7 million to be disbursed by the loan closing date of December 31, 1995. In total,
communities have submitted more than 1,200 subproject proposals. Of these, some 367 have
been approved and are under implementation and 134 have been completed, benefitting 83,000
people in 82 municipalities (46% of eligible municipalities in the state). This is the third highest
rate of completion among the 10 NRDP states (see Annex 2).
Main Lessons Learned from the Northeast Rural Development Program
1.24        The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil starting with the POLONORDESTE Program (1975-84),
a variety of sectoral projects and more recently with the NRDP (1985 to the present). The
NRDP, following its reformulation in 1993, has focused entirely on client-driven subproject
investments implemented by the communities themselves, with decentralized project management
at the state and municipal levels and more transparent decision-making and accountability for
project performance. Implementation has provided important lessons for the proposed project
(see Annex 2 for further details):
(a)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to state
and local government ensures more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to rural
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly-defined and
well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the misuse of
funds;
(b)   Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and
a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance of
project investments.  Beneficiary participation in the selection, execution,
supervision and financing of project investments ensures that investments respond
to true perceived needs, generates cost savings and increases accountability at the
local level;
(c)   Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the municipalities
and communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-sharing arrangement
and when there is increased beneficiary participation.  For example, the
participatory process introduced in the pilot Municipal Council component
(FUMAC) of the reformulated NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization
of subprojects by beneficiaries;



- 8 -
(d)   Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be
based on objective criteria; foster transparency and minimize political interference
in project resource allocation; and ensure that project resources do reach the
poorest communities;
(e)   Technical assistance should be accessible to rural communities to enable them to
identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their
capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance should also be
targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity;
(f)    Standardization of subproject documents. technical designs and unit costs
simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the
procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality
of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater participation by poorer communities
and reducing bottlenecks in the subproject cycle; and
(g)   A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system  facilitates the subproject
evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool.
1.25         The design of the proposed Ceara Rural Poverty Alleviation Project has taken into
account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in
Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development programs. The
project will expand the FUMAC approach and initiate a pilot municipal funds program (para.
2.7), to promote decentralization of decision-making to municipal and community levels, to
relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the minutiae of subprojects,
and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The project will employ a
poverty targeting methodology based on a series of poverty-related criteria at the municipal,
conununity and beneficiary levels, and backed by a strong system of operational checks and
balances to thwart mistargeting and misappropriation of resources. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, an improved monitoring and evaluation system will be adopted to reinforce the
targeting mechanism and to strengthen the management of the subproject cycle. In addition, for
simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and supervision, the Project
Operational Manual will establish standard subproject designs, technical and financial
parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects. Finally, funds for
technical assistance to rural communities and municipalities will be facilitated to enable
participation of the poorest areas, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage
the active participation of NGOs and local grassroots organizations.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1         The proposed project is based on the positive results of the reformulated Northeast
Rural Development Program (NRDP). Joint evaluation by the Brazilian Government and the
World Bank has confirmed that the reformulated NRDP, itself the culmination of two decades
of experience, has succeeded in introducing an effective model for rural poverty alleviation in
the Northeast. This model has now been field tested for about one and a half years, and the
Northeast State Governments ar-, developing projects which would expand its coverage. The
proposed project woula be one of the first of the follow-on operations. As the principal donor
engaged in a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to address rural
poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well placed to support this next phase
of development initiatives for the Region.
2.2         The new Brazilian administration that came to office in January 1995 is extremely
concerned with the level of poverty in the country, and has declared the Northeast Region a
priority area for public development programs. The proposed project, based on a more
participatory and cost-effective approach than previous programs, would fit well within the
Federal Government's Comunidade Soliddaia strategy for poverty alleviation (see also para. 1.6).
2.3         The project is also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 29, 1993. A central theme of the CAS is to reduce
poverty and inequity both through resumption of broad-based economic growth based on
structural reforms and appropriate sector-specific policies, and through proper targeting and
delivery of services to the poor. The project would contribute to economic growth through
income and employment-generating investments in the rural areas of Ceara. It would also
support decentralization of decision-making and expenditure responsibility from the Federal to
the subnational government level, in this case, to the State Government of Ceara and its rural
municipalities. The project would expand social expenditures directed to the poorer segments
of the rural population based on community mobilization efforts and active local beneficiary
participation.
Project Objectives
2.4         The project would assist the State of Ceara to alleviate rural poverty and its
consequences by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and
income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) supporting rural communities in planning
and implementing their own subprojects; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor during a
period of strong fiscal adjustment when the Government's ability to finance essential investments
and services is constrained; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and



- 10 -
municipal levels. The project would ensure that funds are targeted and reliably transferred to
the poorest communities, and would promote further decentralization of decision-making to
State, municipal and local levels.
Project Components
2.5          The proposed project would include three main components, as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects (US$106.8 million or 93 % of total base cost), which would support
small-scale investments selected and subsequently operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$4.6 million or 4% of total base cost), which
would provide all implementing entities and communities with technical assistance and training
to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the project; and (c) Project
Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.4 million or 3% of total base cost), which
would finance project coordination and activities to provide feedback on project performance and
impact.
A. Community Subproiects
2.6          The project would provide matching grants to rural community associations to
finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by these groups as priority
investments that would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of many types,
broadly classified as infrastructure (such as rural water supply, electrification, local road
improvements and small bridges), social (e.g., day care centers for the young and elderly,
school or health post rehabilitation) and productive subprojects (such as small-scale processing
and minor irrigation schemes). There would also be a negative list of subproject types which
would not be eligible for financing. Although demand-driven, the project would set indicative
targets for the main categories of investments (e.g., social, productive, infrastructure) and would
track them via the project's monitoring system (Annex 7). Subproject proposals would observe
standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental and sustainability criteria
established in a Project Operational Manual, which sets forth procedures and guidelines for
implementation. The Operational Manual will build on the manual already in use during the past
year and a half for the reformulated NRDP project, with some fine-tuning and additions to
reflect the lessons learned. Agreements have been reached on the needed improvements to the
NRDP Operational Manual. During negotiations the Bank reviewed a complete revised draft
of the Operational Manual, and assurances were provided by the Borrower that all project
components and subprojects would be executed in accordance with the Operational Manual
(para. 3. 1(a)). Adoption of the Operational Manual would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 3.2(a)).
2.7         Three different delivery mechanisms would be used to screen, approve and
implement community subprojects, as reflected in the three subcomponents described below:
(a)   Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC).  These subprojects would be
identified and prepared by rural communities and presented to project Municipal



- 11 -
Councils for approval. The Municipal Councils, composed of community
members and representatives of local organizations, would promote local
consensus-building on priority needs, screen and approve subprojects for
financing by the State Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). It is expected that at
least some US$68.9 million equivalent, or 60% of total base costs would be
invested under this subcomponent.
(b)   Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). This subcomponent would be
a pilot variant of FUMAC, in which select Municipal Councils would prioritize
and approve subprojects submitted by rural communities and then would finance
them within the context of an annual budget, which the State PCU would delegate
to the Municipal Councils to manage themselves. This annual budget envelope
would be allocated to the Municipal Councils according to a distribution formula,
based on clear and measurable criteria, for implementation of an Annual
Operating Plan (POA) prepared by each Municipal Council and approved by the
PCU (Annex 5). The Municipal Council would transfer funds to beneficiary
associations to finance approved community subprojects. It is expected that at
least US$20.7 million equivalent, or 18% of total base costs, would be invested
under this subcomponent.
(c)   State Community Schemes (PAC).  This subcomponent would provide the
opportunity for rural communities to submit their subproject investment proposals
directly to the State PCU. This would avoid placing at a disadvantage those
communities within municipalities which lack either the capacity or the political
will to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P approach. The continued existence of
PAC would also serve as an incentive to encourage local mayors to join FUMAC
knowing that otherwise their communities could access project funds directly at
State level. The PCU would screen, approve and release funds for subprojects,
interacting directly with the beneficiary communities. It is expected that up to
some US$17.2 million equivalent, or 15%5o of total base costs, would be invested
under this subcomponent.
2.8         Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP, it is expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the course
of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents gradually
expanding. Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents
to accommodate this expansion.
2.9         To be eligible to receive financing under the project, beneficiaries would form
legally-registered associations, in compliance with Brazilian law, and would enter into
agreements (convtnios) with the PCU and/or project Municipal Councils. Understandings have
been reached on draft model agreements between the PCU, Municipal Councils and community
associations for the implementation of community subprojects under the FUMAC, FUMAC-P
and PAC subcomponents.  The final model agreements would form part of the Project
Operational Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subproject costs, either in
cash, kind or labor, and would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the



- 12 -
investments.  The level of contributions of the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State
Government for the different types of subprojects would be specified in the Project Operational
Manual.
B. Institutional Development
2.10        Given the decentralized implementation framework of the project, capacity
building through technical assistance and training of the various participating entities--beneficiary
associations, project Municipal Councils and the PCU--will be central to its success. The
Institutional Development component (US$4.6 million or 4% of total base cost) will finance
appropriate technical assistance and training for each group to acquire the capabilities needed
to effectively carry out project implementation. For example, the beneficiary associations will
need accessible support for community organization and subproject preparation and execution,
as well as training in operation and maintenance techniques, to derive optimal benefit from
subproject investments. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to orient their
decision-making on resource allocation among community investments and, in the FUMAC-P
pilot program, to build capacity for investment planning and financial administration. In
addition to providing or making available from other sources a wide range of skilled technical
and managerial advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, the PCU
will need training to enhance its own project management and supervision skills, particularly
those of its regional offices. To this effect, the component would finance consultant services,
training materials and courses, seminars, workshops, and related operational costs.
2.11        The technical assistance and training program, elaborated by the PCU together
with other State Secretariats (in particular Labor and Social Action (SAS); Agriculture and Land
Reform (SEARA); Water Resources; and Industry and Commerce), would be implemented with
a strong decentralization focus. It would be packaged into four main categories: (a) a basic
introductory capacity-building program for Municipal Councils. Organized by the PCU, this
program would include intensive training on the project philosophy, subproject cycle, role of the
Municipal Councils, Operational Manual guidelines, etc., for each Municipal Council under the
project; (b) specialized skills training for the PCU and Municipal Councils. Based on needs,
each group would contract "on-the-job training" from local experts in areas such as
environmental assessment, monitoring techniques, financial administration, etc.; (c) technical
assistance and training for participating communities, organized and contracted by the PCU and
the Municipal Councils, on community mobilization and organization, subproject preparation,
operation and maintenance of investments, expert advice (e.g., for water use), among others;
and (d) workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, to
exchange experiences under the project.
2.12        Potential service providers include participating public institutions such as SAS
and SEARA, private extensionists, local consultants, NGOs and universities. The Municipal
Councils, provided with model Terms of Reference prepared by the PCU, would contract
technical assistance based on programs agreed with the PCU, which would then release funds
for that purpose. These programs would be elaborated on the basis of experience obtained
through a pilot technical assistance program started under the existing NRDP (Annex 4).



- 13 -
C. Project Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.13         This component (US$3.4 million or 3% of total base cost) would support overall
project coordinaticn and supervision and uphold the effectiveness and quality of project
operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the PCU and its field offices in
the project area, mainly for supervision of subprojects, and a statewide information campaign
to disseminate information about the project and its guidelines throughout the project area, to
increase awareness, transparency and participation. For this campaign, the project would
finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and develorment of the campaign; and (b)
the implementation costs, including posters, leaflets, radio spots and videos.
2.14         This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system,
including the maintenance and use of a management information system (MIS). To function as
an efficient management tool, thc- project MIS (Annex 7), originally designed under the NRDP,
would be improved anu made more user-friendly. It would contain key technical, financial and
socio-economic information on subprojects, as well as cost and other physical indicators. MIS-
gene:ated project reports, including monthly disbursement reports and semestral progress
reports, would facilitate subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project
performance. In addition to financing operating costs for monitoring activities, the project
would finance experts in information technology and project management: (i) to improve the
MIS; and (ii) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical parameters from the
most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a range of values for these
indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly. These adjustments would then
form part of the Project Operational Manual.
2.15         Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement
studies to evaluate the impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project
operations: (a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and sustainability of
common types of subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of community-based
procurement; (b) a Mid-Term evaluation of project performance, carried out in the third year
of implementation; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline
evaluation to establish indicators of socioeconomic impact, a mid-term and a final evaluation of
the project using these indicators. Annex 7 contains a detailed description of the studies to be
financed under the project.
2.16         During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that: a project
information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would be
maintained throughout the project period. The Bank would receive monthly information on
disbursements of project funds and semi-annual reports on subproject activities and performance
of project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year (para. 3.1(c)); a baseline
evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan effectiveness, and a Mid-Term
Review of the project would be carried out during the third year of the project (para. 3.1(d)).
The establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and evaluation arrangements
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(b)).



- 14 -
Decentralization and Targeting
2.17         Decentralization. Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project
implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to the State and from the State to
the local (municipal and community) levels, started under the reformulated NRDP with the
introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC programs and will be further advanced
in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will expand significantly. Second, the pilot
FUMAC-P program will promote a transfer of financial management responsibilities to selected
Municipal Councils.
2.18         Project Targeting.   Beneficiary  targeting  would  occur at four levels:
(a) geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the municipality;
(b) geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and communities;
(c) community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups by the
project Municipal Councils; and (d) project-based selection through the incentive structure and
cost-sharing matrix established for different major types of subprojects. Targeting at the first
and second levels defines the project area. Project municipalities are selected based on poverty-
related criteria such as rate of indigence, availability of municipal resources and other socio-
economic indicators (Annex 1), which are linked with the poor natural resource base, harsh
agro-climatic conditions, risk of drought and concentration of small-farm families. Within
municipalities, the second level of targeting reduces the potential beneficiary population to only
those communities located in settlements of less than 7,500 people, resulting in a target
population of 2.5 million.5 The third and principal level of targeting is community-based. The
project assumes that local representatives can best judge which communities are poorest and
what the investment priorities are in each area. The fact that 80% of the members of the
Municipal Councils would be representatives from rural communities and local civil society, as
well as the clear and transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning, are also
important for targeting poor beneficiaries at the lowest level. Finally, the cost-sharing matrix
favors subprojects with greater poverty alleviation potential and discourages those thought to
have somewhat lesser development impact. The effectiveness of the targeting methodology in
directing project benefits to the poor would be assessed through the project monitoring system
and through annual performance reviews and the Mid-Term Review (Annex 7). Details on
targeting mechanisms are included in Annex 3. Agreements have been reached with the State
of Ceara on these targeting mechanisms and on the municipalities to be included under the
project; these understandings would be reflected in the final Project Operational Manual.
Project Coordination Arrangements
2.19         Project Coordinating Unit. The Departamento de Programas Especiais (DEPES),
a Department of the State Secretariat of Planning and Coordination (SEPLAN) which has been
in charge of overseeing the implementation of the NRDP and previous Bank-financed programs
for the Northeast since 1974, would continue as the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) and would
5.    Including inhabitants of small urban centers.



- 15 -
have overall responsibility for project coordination. At the central level, working within the
integrated framework of Government actions as outlined in the new State strategy (paras. 1.20
and 1.21), SEPLAN would closely coordinate with other Secretariats (e.g., SAS, SEARA and
other concerned Secretariats) on rural development and sectoral strategies of relevance to the
PCU's activities. The structure of the PCU includes, under the Director, three Divisions
(Programming, Technical Support and Financial Control) which have a professional staff
totalling 38--including the three Division Chiefs--plus related administrative and support staff.
At the field level, the PCU operates with 12 Regional Units or Coordenadorias covering the
whole state. While the PCU's monitoring and supervision functions would be increased under
the proposed project, its executive role would be much reduced as the FUMAC component of
the reformulated NRDP would be considerably expanded and many decision-making and
implementation responsibilities (particularly for subproject evaluation, approval and supervision)
would be transferred to project Municipal Councils.
2.20        Effective field coordination and supervision of project activities by the PCU
requires strengthening its Regional Units, some of which are currently understaffed. The State
is taking measures to confer greater administrative and financial autonomy to the PCU and to
strengthen its Regional Units so that they would be able to properly carry out their
responsibilities under the project. Other state institutions would also assist the communities in
identifying and appraising subprojects, through technical assistance and training in their
respective fields: in particular, the Secretariats of Labor and Social Action for small-scale
income-generating activities for both men and women (clothes-making, handicrafts, for
example); the Secretariat of Water Resources for community rural water supply and irrigation
projects and for the provision of technical advice on water use; the Secretariat of Industry and
Commerce for small-scale agro-industries; and the State Superintendency for the Environment
and the Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) on
environmental aspects.
2.21        Specific project functions of the PCU would be to: (a) prepare project Annual
Operating Plans (POAs); (b) work closely with the State Secretariats of Planning and Finance
to ensure timely and adequate availability of loan and state counterpart funds for the project;
(c) promote the project and encourage participation of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs
and private sector entities; (d) review and appraise subproject proposals submitted by PAC
communities; (e) review POAs submitted by FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and allocate the
corresponding approved budgets; (f) release funds to the community associations whose
proposals have been approved, and to the participating FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (g)
supervise implementation of the approved subprojects and monitor compliance with project
guidelines; (h) provide technical assistance to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils;
(i) prepare statements of expenditure (SOEs) and applications for reimbursement; and (j) ensure
that procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are
followed.
2.22        During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that POAs and
budgets would be made available to the Bank for review and comments by October 31 of each
year; that the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they are
approved; and that adequate counterpart funding would be made available for the project in a



- 16 -
timely manner by the State (para. 3.1(b)). Approval of targets for any given year will be
contingent upon performance in the previous year, including a thorough analysis of the actual
demand from communities, of subproject costs actually observed, and of the number of
uncompleted subprojects. The use of standardized technical designs and cost indicators would
substantially facilitate the evaluation process by the PCU.
2.23        Project Municipal Councils. The FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
would have expanded responsibilities in decision-making and project implementation, compared
with current practice under the NRDP. The Councils would comprise representatives from: (a)
rural communities, civil groups and organizations such as NGOs, religious organizations and
rural labor unions; and (b) publicly-elected representatives and municipal government officials.
The Mayor (prefeito) would chair the Municipal Council. While the composition of these
Councils may vary one municipality to another, representatives from rural conrmunities and the
civil society would make up at least 80% of the Councils' membership. The PCU would
participate in the Councils in an advisory capacity. Decisions would be made at open public
meetings, previously announced, and would be taken by majority of votes. Detailed criteria,
rules and procedures for the Municipal Councils' structure and operations are included in the
Project Operational Manual.
2.24        The  Municipal  Councils  would  be  entrusted  with  the  following
tasks/responsibilities: (a) publicizing and promoting the project in their areas; (b) providing
technical assistance to the communities for subproject preparation and execution; (c) prioritizing,
through local consensus-building, community subproject proposals and reviewing them for
approval or rejection; and (d) monitoring and supervising the implementation of approved
subprojects. Under FUMAC, the Municipal Councils will present subprojects which they have
approved to the PCU for financing; under FUMAC-P, they will themselves be responsible for
managing the funds allocated to them for their community subprojects (Annex 5).
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.25        Community Subproject Cycle. Beneficiaries submit proposals for subproject
investments based on priority needs of their communities. These proposals are discussed and
screened within the Municipal Council under both FUMAC and FUMAC-P, and by the Project
Coordinating Unit under PAC.  Beneficiary associations participate in the financing of
subprojects according to cost-sharing arrangements defined for the different types of investments
in the Project Operational Manual.  They also take on the responsibility for subproject
preparation, implementation, operation and maintenance. Standard documentation for subproject
proposals, developed by the PCU, would be distributed to the beneficiary associations to
facilitate the subproject preparation and screening process.  To ensure the quality of the
investments financed and to provide guidance to the beneficiaries when preparing subprojects,
the Project Operational Manual would contain standardized technical designs, including
environmental assessments and cost parameters (e.g., cost per physical unit or per beneficiary)
for the most frequent types of investments. Beneficiary associations may solicit technical
assistance for more sophisticated or less common subproject types.



- 17 -
2.26        Various standard designs already exist, and others would be developed under the
project. In some cases, specialists would be contracted to prepare the designs, based on terms
of reference agreed with the Bank. In others, the PCU would gather and adapt existing designs
(e.g., for pipes or box culverts, retaining walls, fords and decks of bridges) and make them
available to the Municipal Councils and associations.  Standard designs will include the
following considerations, where appropriate: (a) engineering aspects; (b) technical, financial and
economic feasibility; (c) operation and maintenance; (d) recommendations on environmental
impact; and (e) social demand. This process will be facilitated by the fact that other Northeast
States will be developing similar projects and, hence, there will be considerable scope for
dissemination and exchange of designs among the professionals of DEPES and the other State
PCUs.
2.27        The appraisal of community subprojects would be carried out by the Municipal
Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or the PCU (under PAC). The appraisal procedures
would take into account: (a) compliance with the project's guidelines and eligibility criteria,
including those related to the technical, environmental and cost specifications contained in the
Project Operational Manual; (b) the beneficiary association's commitment to provide the required
contribution and to take full responsibility for the execution, operation and maintenance of the
investments to be funded; and (c) in the case of an association which has already benefited from
other subprojects, assessment of past performance.  Using standardized cost indicators,
reasonable costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from standard
designs would have to be fully justified, as would proposed investments which fall outside the
range of standardized costs.
2.28        In order to disburse funds for subproject implementation, agreements (convenios)
would be signed: (a) under FUMAC, between the PCU, the Municipal Council and the
beneficiary association for subproject funding and implementation; (b) under FUMAC-P,
between the Municipal Council and the association, for subproject funding and implementation,
and between the PCU and the Municipal Council for release of project funds; and (c) under
PAC, between the PCU and the beneficiary association for subproject funding and
implementation. Such agreements would spell out the terms and conditions for the funding,
execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved subprojects. Model convenios
would form part of the Project Operational Manual.
2.29        To supervise subproject implementation at the community level, a special
committee, composed of at least three members of the beneficiary association not belonging to
its administration and freely elected by all members, would be responsible for overseeing the
execution of the subproject, including contracting. The PCU and the Municipal Councils would
visit the subproject sites regularly during subproject execution to monitor physical and financial
progress. The PCU would have overall responsibility for subproject supervision through the
project MIS, which would track subproject progress from initial submission to completion
(Annex 7), and through accounting and auditing arrangements. A Project Implementation Plan
was developed and agreed at appraisal (Annex 7, para. 12 and Table 7.1). It includes project
performance indicators, responsible institutions and annual targets, by component. The key
elements of this Plan are included in the Loan Agreement. The Bank's Recife Office would



- 18 -
supervise subproject progress on a sample basis in the field and through review of monthly
disbursement summaries (see Annex 10 for Bank project Supervision Plan).
2.30        Project Operational Manual. The NRDP Operational Manual would be improved
and expanded to reflect the need for fine-tuning and additions based on experience to date.
Agreements were reached with the State during appraisal on the following points to update
and/or include in the Manual: (a) indicative quantitative and qualitative targets to be tracked
with the Project MIS; (b) the project area and the criteria used to select the municipalities
included in the project area; (c) the initial distribution of municipalities among the three
components (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC) and the criteria for future redistribution;
(d) guidelines for the pilot component (FUMAC-P); (e) arrangements for institutional
strengthening and project administration, monitoring and evaluation; (f) the PCU's new structure
at headquarters and the strengthening of regional units; (g) FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal
Council composition, responsibilities and modus operandi, notably in relation to FUMAC-P;
(h) clear identification and description of responsibilities of beneficiaries and municipalities in
the implementation of the subprojects; (i) model agreements to be signed between the PCU, the
Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations; (j) new standard agreements between the PCU
and the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and between the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and the
beneficiary associations; (k) standard forms for proposals to be submitted by potential
beneficiaries; (I) the cost-sharing matrix for the various types of subprojects; (m) the fund
release mechanism to beneficiaries for FUMAC-P; (n) a scheme of incentives and penalties;
(o) monitoring arrangements, including a new classification of the various categories of
subprojects; (p) standard project designs and their role in the appraisal of proposals submitted
by beneficiaries; and (q) a revised standard form of acceptance of completed works (ata de
recebimento).
2.31        Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Community associations would bear the
responsibility for O&M for all investments, as specified in the convenio for release of project
funds. These associations may request technical assistance to develop O&M programs and
techniques. Operation and Maintenance arrangements for community subprojects are described
in Annex 6. Experience to date under the NRDP has been very positive with respect to O&M
of investments when local communities have a strong sense of ownership.
2.32        Operational Checks and Balances. A system of operational checks and balances,
included in the Project Operational Manual, would promote transparency and accountability in
the use of project funds.  Increased decentralization of resources and decision-making
responsibilities to beneficiary associations and Municipal Councils, with only ex-post control by
the State through audit of accounts and supervision and monitoring by the PCU, is central to the
project strategy. However, this advancement requires disincentives against departures from
project guidelines, based mainly on education/joint problem solving and, as a last resort,
penalties for misappropriation, mistargeting, lack of participation or improper O&M.
2.33        Monitoring. Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of subproject
information from the project Management Information System (MIS). Inputs to the database
would be made from a standard data sheet at key stages of the subproject cycle (e.g.,
identification, appraisal, procurement and disbursement. See also annex 7). Periodic processing



- 19 -
of the database information will permit the monitoring of the characteristics and evolution of
project implementation. Project performance indicators to be monitored over the course of
project implementation are included in Annex 7. Monitoring and reporting arrangements are
discussed in paras. 2.14-2.16 above.
Project Costs
2.34        The total project cost, calculated in April 1995 prices and including contingencies,
is estimated at US$116.7 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$30.8 million,
equivalent to about 26% of total project cost. The baseline cost is estimated at US$114.8
million, and contingencies at US$1.9 million. Contingencies are low because they apply only
to the two components of institutional development and project administration, monitoring and
evaluation. For these activities, physical contingencies of 10% and 5% have been included, as
well as annual price increases for local and foreign costs (both expressed in US dollars) at an
average rate of 2.4%, based on the Bank's G-5 Manufacturing Unit Value index projections for
1996-2000.  No contingency provisions have been applied to the community subprojects
component. The number of community investments is not defined ex ante, and any change in
physical or price attributes of subproject investment would be accommodated by a change in the
number of subprojects approved and implemented.
2.35        Investments in subprojects are expected to represent some 93% of total base cost
(60% for FUMAC, 18% for FUMAC-P and 15% for PAC). The distribution among different
categories of subprojects, as well as the phasing of expenditures over the five-year
implementation period, are indicative only, and there would be flexibility to reallocate funds
from the PAC to the FUMAC or FUMAC-P subcomponents as Municipal Councils gain
experience.
Financing Plan
2.36        The Borrower would be the State of Ceara, which has been assessed as being
creditworthy for borrowing from the Bank. The loan would be guaranteed by the Federative
Republic of Brazil.
2.37        The Bank loan would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan of US$70 million
equivalent would finance about 60% of the total project cost, and would disburse against 100%
of expenditures for technical assistance, training and evaluation studies, 59% of expenditures for
community subprojects, and 20% of incremental project administrative costs (except salaries)
and monitoring. The State Government would be responsible for the remaining 40% of total
project cost, with beneficiaries contributing to these counterpart funds. The State Government
of Ceara is expected to meet its counterpart funding obligations without difficulty. The State
Government has consistently met all of its counterpart funding obligations under the reformulated
NRDP. The level of annual funding required under the new project would be similar, and
would be equivalent to only about 0.3 percent of the total State budget. Beneficiaries would



- 20 -
provide a minimum of 10% of the total costs of community-managed investments, in cash, labor
or kind, amounting to US$10.7 million (paras. 2.38 and 2.45). Detailed project costs and the
financing plan are presented in the table below:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
% of Total     % of
Local    Foreien    Total   Baseline Costs   Forei2n
------ (US$ Million) ----------
Estimated Costs
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                    52.4       16.5      68.9           60.0       24.0
2. FUMAC-P                   15.7       5.0      20.7           18.0        24.0
3. PAC                       13.0       4.2      17.2           15.0        24.0
Subtotal                     81.1      25.7     106.8           93.0        24.0
B. Institutional Development     1.8       2.8      4.6             4.0       61.0
C. Project Administration,       2.4       1.0       3.4            3.0       29.0
Monitoring and Evaluation
Total Baseline Costs           85.3       29.5     114.8          100.0       26.0
- Physical contingencies        0.2       0.5        0.7           --          --
- Price contingencies            0.4       0.8       1.2           --          --
Total Proiect Costs             85.9      30.8     116.7
Financing Plan
State Government of Ceara       36.0      --        36.0a'
Beneficiaries                   10.7      --        10.7
IBRD                           41.4      28.6      70.0
Total                          88.1       28.6     116.7           --          --
a/ Including US$4.7 million in local taxes.
2.38          Cost Sharing and Sustainability.  The cost estimates and average size of
community-managed subproject investments have been determined from the experience gained
under the reformulated NRDP and the operation of its PAC and FUMAC components. On this
basis, the project is expected to finance some 4,500 community-managed subprojects over five
years. The amount of the beneficiary communities' contribution to subproject costs would
depend on the type of subproject and the financial resources available to the community, the
final determination being made by the PCU. It is expected to be a minimum of 10% for social



- 21 -
investments, 15 % for infrastructure investments and 20% for productive investments. As in the
existing NRDP, ownership of project facilities by the beneficiaries should enhance the
sustainability of community investments. A key element would be the establishment of sound
arrangements under the project for the provision of operating, maintenance and capital
replacement expenditures, the requirements for which would vary significantly among types of
subprojects and the availability of which would vary by municipality and community association.
The Project Operational Manual and the convenios would contain specific guidelines concerning
the funding of these costs.
Procurement
2.39        Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less and procured by local communities, would be carried out mainly through direct contracting.
This procurement procedure is appropriate because most subprojects: (a) would be small and/or
implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive
proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities which will contribute to the work
through the donation of unskilled labor and local materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of
willingness of the beneficiary commnunities to contribute to and physically supervise their
execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role in the local
development process. There may be cases when the community lacks the capacity to make the
necessary purchases of materials. For such subprojects, the municipalities or the PCU would
make purchases on behalf of the communities, packaging the procurement for several subprojects
whenever possible. Procurement by the municipalities or the PCU would follow: (i) National
Shopping procedures for goods, and procedures acceptable to the Bank for procurement of small
works under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations (under
US$100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$ 10.6 million for goods and US$4.0 million
for small works); or (ii) National Competitive Bidding -- NCB (over US$100,000). For NCB
the standard bidding documents agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil
will be used. ICB is not anticipated for any goods or works under the project. Although the
costs of individual subprojects may not exceed US$50,000, the average size of the subprojects
is expected to be less than US$25,000.  Between 700 and 1,100 subprojects would be
implemented yearly using these procurement methods.
2.40        Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all
NCB contracts. Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it would
be compensated in several ways. First, a study of procurement by community contracting would
be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of reference agreed during
negotiations. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would be conducted using the
project information and monitoring system (para. 2.14) in order to detect possible procurement
problems.  Third, the project physical performance evaluation (Annex 7) would analyze
procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be conducted
of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
2.41        Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary
communities, the Municipal Councils and the PCU would be procured in accordance with Bank



- 22 -
guidelines for the use of consultants.  Contracts, short lists, and selection procedures for
technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the value of the
contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more for individual
consultants. All consultant terms of reference would be subject to Bank prior review.
During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Ceara that:  (a) the above
procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 3.1(g)); and (b) the study of procurement
by community contracting referred to in para. 2.40 would be carried out during the first year
of the  project and  any  agreed  recommendations adopted  expeditiously  (para. 3.1(h)).
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Category                                                Total
NCB           Other          Cost
Community Subprojects
 Minor Works                           --            42.81'        42.8
(under US$50,000)                                   (25.3)        (25.3)
D Goods and Materials                   --            42.81'        42.8
(under US$50,000)                                   (25.3)        (25.3)
- Minor Works                            6.6           --            6.6
(over US$50,000)                      (3.9)          --           (3.9)
* Minor Works                           --             4.0-'         4.0
(under US$100,000)                                   (2.4)         (2.4)
* Goods and Materials                   --             10.61'       10.6
(over US$50,000)                                     (6.3)        (6.3)
Consulting Services                       --              6.0          6.0
(6.0)        (6.0)
Project Administration                     --             3.9           3.9
(0.8)        (0.8)
TOTAL                                      6.6          110.1         116.7
(3.9)        (66.1)        (70.0)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the Bank.
1/ Direct contracting.
2/ Shopping.



- 23 -
Disbursements and Special Account
2.42        The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years, and the
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000, and the project's Closing Date is
December 31, 2000. The disbursement period shown in the projected Disbursement Schedule
(Annex 8, Table 8.4) is shorter than the Bank's standard disbursement profile for rural
development projects in Brazil, but is in line with the recent experience under the reformulated
NRDP and with other Bank-financed social fund projects in Latin America. The allocation of
loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Annex 8, Table 8.3.
2.43        During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Ceara that it would
open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank for Bank
disbursements (para. 3.1(e)). The authorized allocation would be US$5 million, adequate to
cover the expected average four-month flow of disbursements under the project. Disbursements
for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for
goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above
US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000 equivalent.
2.44        The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by
the Project Coordinating Unit in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted by the PCU
to the Bank in Washington. Simultaneously, the PCU would send to the Bank's Recife Office
a copy of SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in Washington, as well
as updated information on the status of all subprojects, enabling a rapid review of subproject
eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank and PCU management to maintain a
cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
2.45        The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the
agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the community association (PAC), between the
PCU, the Municipal Council and the association (FUMAC) or between the Municipal Council
and the community association (FUMAC-P). It would be computed as part of counterpart
finance of the project. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the
Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated community representative. They
would be used to record cash contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to
project audit procedures. Disbursements to the beneficiary associations for subproject execution
would be contingent on physical evidence of work progress (i.e., the flow of funds to the
community would be results-driven; records of counterpart contributions would be maintained
as back-up information).
Accounts and Audits
2.46        The PCU would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts of the
Municipal Councils (for the FUMAC-P subcomponent) and of the community associations would
also be subject to review by the independent auditors on a sample basis. Finally, independent
auditors would also audit the Special Account (para. 2.43). Copies of the audit reports would



- 24 -
be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit reports
would convey the auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed
in the compilation of the statements of expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of
record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The State of Ceara provided
assurances during negotiations that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to withdrawals on the basis of
SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with
the procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals; and (c) certified
copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para. 3.1(f)).
Environmental Aspects
2.47        The proposed project has been assigned a "B" classification. Because of their
relatively small size, most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects would not have a
significant effect on the enviromnent. The project would, however, ensure proper environmental
screening and enforcement measures, to prevent the negative impact that certain types of
productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing negative effects. The Operational
Manual would specify key environmental criteria and screening and enforcement procedures to
be followed.
2.48        Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal
presented by the community associations would include a simple environmental assessment in
the form of a "checklist", following a standard format.  For standard subproject types,
environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the responsibility of the PCU
and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types, for which technical standards have
not been developed, the PCU would screen the subproject proposals in detail for environmental
impact, contracting technical assistance when necessary, and this assessment and any subsequent
recommendations would be incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P
subprojects, the Municipal Councils would conduct the environmental screening together with
either the PCU or with contracted technical assistance, such as NGOs.  Enforcement of
environmental criteria would be ensured via subproject supervision by the PCU and Municipal
Councils (paras. 2.21 and 2.24).
Poverty Category
2.49        The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions.
The project centers its investments on the rural poor of Ceara, a state of the Northeast Region
which, in turn, has the greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil. The project employs a targeting
methodology at the beneficiary, community and municipal levels, which takes into account
poverty-related criteria and other key parameters (Annex 3) to ensure that project resources



- 25 -
reach those communities which contain a higher concentration of rural poor than in the rest of
the state.
Women's Participation
2.50         The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project.
Bank-supported operations and studies in the Northeast of Brazil show the strong correlation
between the problems and needs of rural women and those of producers and family units in
general. Interestingly enough, they also show that community leaders in the Northeast favor
women's participation due to their willingness to provide assistance and services, receptiveness
to change, and greater likelihood of repaying debt.6 Responding to lessons concerning women's
participation, this project will seek to ensure that women's activities (both traditional and
innovative) are included; to support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care
facilities (the latter have proven invaluable under the ongoing PAC/FUMAC operations in
freeing rural women for income generating activities); to target groups and activities in which
female participation has proven constructive; to provide technical assistance for women's
subproject proposals and implementation; and to monitor women's participation in the project
and its benefits.
Proiect Benefits
2.51         The proposed project would result in an improved quality of life for some 675,000
people (about 27% of the target population), by providing better access to water supply and
other basic social and economic infrastructure and services, and by contributing to an increase
in production, incomes and employment. Project-financed rural water supply and minor
irrigation works will be particularly important in reducing vulnerability to drought. Productive
subprojects will provide a vehicle for financing improvements in input use, technology and
value-adding activities, thus raising productivity and incomes. Female community members will
benefit especially from subprojects such as water supply and some productive activities and
social investments (e.g., day care centers) which enable rural women to seek paying jobs and
contribute to increased family cash incomes. Annex 2 provides an assessment of the kind of
benefits which have been achieved to date for the most common types of subprojects under the
reformulated NRDP. These are illustrative of the kinds of benefits to the target population
which are expected, albeit on a larger scale, from the proposed project.
2.52         Another important project benefit will be the strengthening of the capacity of poor
municipalities and their communities to define and address priority needs, and to plan and
execute their own development projects. It is also expected that the new project will have a
similar impact on the mobilization of additional community and municipal resources, as has the
reformulated NRDP thus far (15-20% of resources invested by the program), and this will
6.    A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP-PAPP),
Conrad Kottak, February 7, 1994.



- 26 -
improve the longer-term sustainability of investments. Finally, the proposed project will provide
a safety net for some of the poorest segments of Ceara's rural population who will likely be
affected by decreased public investments and services during a period of strong fiscal
adjustment.
Project Risks
2.53         Bank experience in Latin America and elsewhere suggests that the main sources
of risk for this type of program arise from: (a) irregular funding, which can erode community
interest and participation; (b) technical weaknesses and inadequate supervision of large numbers
of widely dispersed subprojects; (c) mistargeting of program resources; and (d) over-
centralization of decision-making, which often has the corollary effect of depressing local
initiative and community involvement. The funding risk will be mitigated by the fact that the
Bank loan will be taken directly by the State, thereby eliminating those disbursement delays
previously encountered at the Federal level. Secondly, counterpart funding responsibilities
would be shared to a larger extent by the communities, decreasing the relative proportion of the
State's own participation. Third, and perhaps most important, the strong sense of ownership by
the State, municipalities and communities should help to protect project counterpart funding
needs during the process of allocating scarce budget resources. The risks of overdesign and
weak supervision at the subproject level should be substantially reduced with the establishment
of technical standards and cost criteria for the most common types of subprojects, and a
reinforced institutional strengthening component.  Problems of mistargeting and lack of
community participation have been reduced under the reformulated NRDP. However, to further
minimize such problems, the project design has introduced a system of strong operational checks
and balances against such behavior. For instance, a community or municipality would receive
fewer funds the following year, or be cut off entirely from the program, in cases of
misappropriation, mistargeting or insufficient participation.



- 27 -
III. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1         During negotiations, the Bank reviewed the complete revised draft of the
Operational Manual (para. 2.6). The State of Ceara provided assurances that:
(a)   all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance with the
Project Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   Annual Operating Plans (POAs) and budgets for each project year would be made
available to the Bank for review and comments by October 31 of each year, and
that the Bank will receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they are
approved, and that adequate counterpart funding would be made available for the
project in a timely manner by the State (para. 2.22);
(c)   a project information and monitoring system, with reports and formats agreed
with the Bank, would be maintained throughout the project. The Bank would
receive monthly information on disbursements of project funds and semi-annual
reports (on July 31 and January 31 of each year) on subproject activities and
performance of project investments (para. 2.16);
(d)   a baseline evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan
effectiveness, and a Mid-Term Review of the project will be carried out during
the third year of project implementation (para. 2.16);
(e)   a Special Account would be opened and maintained in US Dollars in a
commercial bank for Bank disbursements (para. 2.43);
(f)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be maintained and audited
annually according to standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms
of reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the statements of expenditure for the project
accounts; and (iii) copies of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 2.46);
(g)   procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 2.39-2.41; and
(h)   a study on procurement by community contracting would be carried out during
the first year of the project and any agreed recommendation adopted expeditiously
(para. 2.41).



- 28 -
3.2          Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   adoption of the Project Operational Manual (para. 2.6); and
(b)   establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and evaluation
arrangements (para. 2.16).
3.3          Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$70 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
June 6, 1995



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Socio-Economic Indicators
BRAZIL                                NORTHEAST!'                                   CEARA
Total            Rural                   Total              Rural                   Total             Rural
Population (in)           146.8             35.8                    42.5               16.7                    6.4               2.2
Rate of Indigencez'        22%               43%                     41%                56%                     47%               66%
Illiteracy2'               20%               41%                     38%                57%                     37%               59%
Heads of household         33%               60%                     56%                  --                    61%               83%
earning 1 minimum
wage or less
Heads of household         24%               49%                     46%                  --                    47%               73%
with less than I year
of schooling
% of households            74%               33%                     46%                  --                    40%                3%
with running water
% of households            15%               47%                     38%                 --                    41%                84%
with access to
proper sanitation
facilities
I/     Except Minas Gerais.
2/     Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by IPEA divided by the total number of families in the
municipality. Source: 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, March 1993.
3/     Population 15 years and over.
Sources:  Censo DemoRrdfico 1991 - Brasil, IBGE.
Censo Demogrdfico 1991 - Ceard, IBGE.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Socio-Economic Indicators
Total                                  Rural Pop.      Rate of        ICS           Federal         Pop. per
Pop.      Rural Pop.       Area         Density       Indigence     Index!'    Dependency Ratio     Physician
(N")1        (%)MY         (km2)       (No/km2)          MY                         !(%)             (No'
State                          6,366,647          34.5    145,337             15.1            47.2        0.41            -              671
Project Area                   4,059,630          52.6    141,863             15.1           65.2         0.57            64.8           940
Project Area by Refion:
Acarau                           152,347          63.9      3,773             25.8            65.3        0.62            50.3          2116
Assare                           156,536          62.3     10,184              9.6            66.8        0.42            76.9          1065
Baturite                         189,652          61.1      3,695             31.4            63.8        0.32            72.5           797
Camocim                          122,472          45.0      4,995             11.0            66.2        0.43            69.1          1476              o
Caninde                          153,467          60.7      9,415              9.9            66.9        0.25            69.9          1258
Cascavel                         161,325          44.5      3,229             22.2            62.4        0.32            64.3           704
Crateus                          253,625          56.1     12,971             11.0            69.6        0.21            69.7          1356
Ico                              149,688          53.7      4,467             18.0           72.3         0.37            58.7          1439
Iguatu                           201,272          50.3      6,108             16.6            59.3        0.31            56.8          1184
Itapipoca                        355,431          54.9      9,507             20.5           66.2         0.16            71.4          1033
Jaguaribe                         98,666          60.0      6,538              9.1            64.6        0.65            68.1          1039
Juazeiro do Norte                605,865          36.6      9,745             22.7            63.7        0.12            58.4           544
Quixada                          226,117          59.4     12,873             10.4            71.2        0.30            58.6          1330
Russas                           310,676          51.9     11,637             13.9            63.3        0.20            59.7           629
Senador Pompeu                   155,618          64.4      7,693             13.0            64.8        0.32            73.8          1353
Sobral                           389,304          45.0     10,692             16.4            62.3        0.12            65.6           861
Taua                             118,084          67.4      8,917              8.9            63.5        0.49            72.7          2362
Tiangua                          259,485          60.1      5,426             28.7            67.1        0.20            70.0          1936
I/      Censo Demogrifico 1991, IBGE.                                                                                                                   cr
2/      0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, 1993.                                                                                                                        x
3/      The ICS (Indice de Condi9co de Sobrevivencia) is a composite index calculated, for all municipalities, by UNICEF and 1BGE to measure the adequacy
of conditions pertinent to the survival of children under 6, based on characteristics of their families--household heads having incomes below the minimum
wage, heads of household having less than one year of schooling or households without running water. These conditions are precarious for an ICS of
0.50 to 1.00, intermediate for an ICS of 0.30 to 0.49 and good for an ICS of 0 to 0.29. State and Project Area figures calculated as weighted averages.
Source: Municipios Brasileiros - Criancas e suas Condicoes de Sobrevivencia, UNICEF/IBGE, 1994.
4/      Federal Dependency Ratio (1991): Total transfers from the Federal Fundo de Participa,ao as percent of municipal budget. Source: Anuario Estatistico
do Ceard 1993, IPLANCE.
5/      Anudrio Estatistico do Ceard 1993, IPLANCE.



- 31 -                        Annex 2
Page 1 of 13
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing programs to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast.  The Federal Government
established the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in 1985 to reduce rural poverty
and improve the living standards of small farm families in the Northeast. Through 1993, with
the exception of one component supporting small community projects, implementation of the
NRDP lagged behind schedule, and performance in meeting basic project objectives was weak.
The innovative community-based components (Apoio ais Pequenas Comunidades Rurais, APCR),
which relied on community planning and implementation, stressed community organization and
contracted out needed technical expertise, were more successful. They acknowledged the
expressed needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost per
family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components. The NRDP was reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a community-
based development program--effective September 28, 1993--drawing both on the successful
experience of the small community projects components and on lessons learned with similar
schemes elsewhere in Latin America.
2.        Under the reformulated NRDP, the project provides matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by these groups as priority
investments to improve community well-being. Choosing among eligible subprojects, the
beneficiaries solicit investments which respond to their most critical needs. There are two
different delivery mechanisms for screening, approving and implementing community
subprojects:
(a)  State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural communities submit their
subproject investment proposals directly to the State. The State screens, approves
and releases funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and
(b)  Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities are presented to project Municipal Councils for
approval. The Councils, composed of community members and representatives of
the civil society, promote local-level consensus-building on priority needs, and
screen and submit subprojects for subsequent financing by the State.
3.        This Annex presents the results of a performance and impact analysis of the
reformulated NRDP, as described above. The analysis is based on information and findings of



- 32 -                              Annex 2
Page 2 of 13
several studies and is presented as follows: (i) the information base and methodology on which
the analysis and conclusions are based; (ii) an analysis of the performance to date; (iii) project
evaluation, particularly an impact analysis; (iv) a summary of the major findings and results of
other studies; (v) lessons for follow-up project design and implementation; and (vi) conclusions.
4.          Lessons learned since reformulation show that after several years of experience with
rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measure of success has finally been achieved
in effectively reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions. While the analyses have shown
certain aspects that need improvement in a minority of subprojects, these can be easily adjusted
by modifications to the project design. The design of the proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation
Project has explicitly taken into account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects
with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based
development programs.
B. Information Base
5.          The analysis presented in this Annex draws upon the following sources:
(a)   Data supplied by the Northeast States to the Simplified Project Monitoring System
(SSMP) of the Bank's Recife Office. The SSMP is the major data base for the
reformulated NRDP, from which the performance of the project is monitored. The
SSMP stores key information on each subproject and is updated on a monthly basis;
(b)   Sample surveys by the Unidades Tecnicas (UTs)' of participating states.  These
surveys, the major source of information on the NRDP's impact since
reformulation, evaluate the impact of a group of 52 PAC/FUMAC projects (8
different types), obtained by using the random sampling methodology proposed by
the Bank.2 The eight major types of projects analyzed are: water supply; rural
electrification; manioc flour mills (casas de farinha); tractors; house improvement
for community health purposes; rice mills; clothes-making; and child day care
centers. These eight project types account for more than 50% of all projects
completed or under implementation in the ten States.
1.    The Project Coordinating Units (PCUs) under the proposed project.
2.    This methodology builds on statistical random sampling procedures from a universe of all subprojects
under implementation and/or completed, as obtained from the SSMP. Due to the wide variation in
project characteristics, the maximum acceptable difference between sample estimated value and the true
population value was set at 20% -- the total number subprojects selected for data collection following this
procedure was 177. The Bank's Recife Office identified specific subprojects randomly by employing a
random number generator. The distribution of the sample for a given type of subproject among the states
was based on the distribution frequency of such projects. A questionnaire was designed for each type of
project, focussing on: (a) subproject identification; (b) nature of the subproject (investments funded); (c)
results/impact of the subproject; and (d) special information. (For additional and detailed information on
the procedure, see "A Methodological Note on the NRDP Survey on Impact," Recife Office, World
Bank).



- 33 -                         Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
(c)  A desk review of the following studies: (i) special evaluation studies of FUMAC,
also conducted by UTs for each of the ten States, based on their implementation
experience and specific case studies; (ii) the University of Michigan's "Baseline and
Popular Participation Study", initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, and followed
by field surveys in July-October 1994, covering 38 communities in 23 municipalities
of 9 states (Minas Gerais was not included); (iii) a series of studies under the
"ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal Development in Semi-arid Areas of the
Northeast"; (iv) an evaluation of NRDP, commis,ioned in 1994 by the Federal
Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN); and (v) reports from several World
Bank and FAO missions reviewing the experience of the reformulated NRDP.
C. Performance to Date
6.        Statistical information from the SSMP on the performance of all 10 participating
states in the reformulated NRDP is presented in Tables 2.1 to 2.6. Depending on the state, the
reformulated NRDP became operational between October 1993 and January 1994. The general
performance of the program as of February 1995 is reviewed below.
Disbursements
7.        Table 2.1 presents disbursement progress (including funds already committed) since
reformulation for each participating state, as of February 15, 1995. In just over a year, a total
of US$108.5 million has been disbursed or committed under the program, consisting of US$71.6
million actually disbursed and another US$36.9 million already committed by the States. The
program's current disbursement rate, overall, is significantly higher than its historical equivalent
before reformulation. During the eight years of implementation of the original NRDP (1985-
1993), US$342 million, or less than US$43 million per year, was disbursed.
8.        Individual disbursement profiles have also been analyzed. In the second half of 1994,
disbursements increased markedly for six of the states (Bahia, Minas Gerais, Sergipe, Maranhao,
Piaui and Paraiba), but remained lower for the others (Pernambuco, Alagoas, Ceara and Rio
Grande do Norte). Bottlenecks in the flow of loan funds from the Federal Treasury to the states
were responsible for most of the lower disbursement rates.
Subprojects and Beneficiaries
9.        As of February 25, 1995, more than 21,000 PAC and FUMAC subproject proposals
have been submitted by communities in the ten participating states. Of the total, more than
15,000 subprojects have already been approved, of which 5,931 are completed and/or under
implementation and another 379 awaiting the final transfer of funds to the beneficiary
associations. Negotiations with beneficiary associations--on the terms of agreement and other
issues--were in process on the other 8,925 approved subprojects (Table 2.2).
10.       Some 120 different types of subprojects have been implemented and/or completed.
Of these, 55% are infrastructure subprojects, 42% productive subprojects and 3% social



- 34 -                         Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
subprojects.  Subprojects related to water supply constitute the largest single category of
submissions (19.3%), followed by rural electrification (17.6%), tractors (9.7%), manioc flour
mills (8.0%) and a variety of others (Table 2.3).
11.       Of the approved subprojects under implementation and/or completed, some 13 % are
under FUMAC. Although the costs of PAC and FUMAC subprojects are similar (Table 2.4),
FUMAC subprojects involve, on average, 40% more beneficiaries, resulting in a significantly
lower implementation cost per beneficiary.
12.       The average cost per subproject (around US$21,000) varies greatly among project
types, ranging from US$10,000 for tubewells to US$36,500 for tractors, but never exceeding
US$40,000 (Table 2.5). Costs for the same type of subprojects often differ substantially
between states.
13.       Subprojects were being implemented (or completed) in 898 municipalities (Table
2.6), or 71% of the total eligible municipalities (1,258). About 11% of these are FUMAC
municipalities. On average, 5.9 subprojects have been approved for different communities
within each municipality under FUMAC compared with 4.7 under PAC.
D. Evaluation
Socio-economic Impact Evaluation
14.       A full impact evaluation of community investments financed under the reformulated
NRDP is difficult, as the program has been operational for a little more than one year and
definitive conclusions can be drawn only from those subprojects which have been completed and
are fully operational (Table 2.2). However, by taking a sample and using data obtained from
field surveys of the subprojects and their beneficiaries by the different UTs, a socio-economic
impact evaluation was conducted in November-December 1994 for eight main project types,
which account for more than half of all subprojects under implementation and/or completed and
of total subproject costs (para. 5.(b) contains a description of the procedure followed). The
analysis of sample cases surveyed by the UTs indicates that PAC and FUMAC have generally
made a positive impact on the quality of life and, in the case of productive subprojects, on
employment and incomes of beneficiary communities or associations. In addition, the analysis
shows that the social internal rates of return for productive subprojects are extremely high
(>50%), with the cost-effectiveness results also impressive--in terms of both employment
creation and social benefit/cost ratio.  The prospects for financial sustainability of these
subprojects are also more than satisfactory.
15.       Data were obtained for 52 sample subprojects in the various states, of which 30
were under PAC and 22 under FUMAC. First, quantitative benefits per project type were
assessed based on weighted averages obtained from the subprojects surveyed in that category,
and results (appropriate to each subproject type) derived per beneficiary. Second, these results
were extrapolated to all the subprojects under implementation or completed in each subproject
category, with analysis of sustainability of the communal investments, in terms of operation and



- 35 -                          Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
maintenance as well as capital replacements, for some of the productive subproject types. The
analysis, made in financial terms, covered the ten states as a whole. Given the sampling nature
of the exercise and the variations that exist between individual states in terms of subproject costs
and performance, results which have been quantified in the overall evaluation (Tables 2.7 and
2.8) should be taken as illustrative only:
(a)   Rural fvater supply (19%  of subprojects submitted). Since drought is a frequent
occurrence and one of the major threats to life in the Northeast, communities
express great demand for this type of subproject. Due to variation in physical
conditions among the different areas, works implemented differ according to the
source of water (surface or groundwater) and the type of infrastructure required
(new or rehabilitated well, reservoir, fountain, etc.). The average cost is about
US$16,000 per subproject3 in the sample or US$142 per beneficiary. Rural water
,upply pro,ects provide a precious resource which previously was obtainable only
through long hours of walk or had to be supplied by the municipality (by carro pipa
or water bowser), usually at great cost. The subproject results are savings in time,
effort and cost, as well as improved health through better sanitation. However,
these gains are difficult to quantify. It is estimated that approximately 140,000
families will benefit from  the 976 subprojects under implementation and/or
completed in this category.
(b)  Rural electrification (18% of subprojects submitted). This project type on average
costs US$20,000 or about US$7,800 per km of network, and on average benefits
48 families. Providing electricity to roads, households, shops and small-scale
processing units, the subproject contributes not only to the obvious improvement in
quality of life of the local inhabitants (including access to radio, television and the
use of domestic appliances), but also generates additional employment and incomes
from the increased operation of local businesses and industries. In total, it is
estimated that more than 36,000 families will benefit from the 758 rural
electrification subprojects under implementation and/or completed, with more than
24,000 houses connected to electricity.
(c)   Manioc mills (8%  of subprojects submitted).  Casas de farinha are a familiar
structure in rural areas in the Northeast. They are popular with a population for
whom manioc continues to be a major food crop, particularly in the form of flour.
These subprojects cost around US$20,000 and, on average, involve 108 producers
of whom 68 are members of the association which owns the mill and the rest are
farmers who come to the mill for processing. The principal benefit from this type
of project is a reduction in processing costs (plus, in some cases, savings in
transport to other mills located outside the project area), leading to increased
3.   The variation between average costs per project type given in this section and those of Table 2.5 is
explained by the smaller number and characteristics of the sample subprojects when compared with the
total under the program.



- 36 -                          Annex 2
Page 6 of 13
production (both of manioc flour and subproducts) either for sale or family
consumption, and therefore higher incomes (in some cases, the quality of the
product is also improved through particular care of the association members).
Because faster processing allows the producers more time for planting and
harvesting, the installation of manioc mills is associated with an increase in the crop
areas, at least where access to land is not a problem. At the same time, the
subprojects generate additional jobs for both men and women working in the mills,
whose mechanization generally results in better working conditions. It is estimated
that the 380 subprojects which were under implementation and/or completed will
benefit around 30,000 families, produce annual incremental income of about
US$377 per family, and generate more than 11,000 jobs (including additional farm
employment). The comparison between receipts and operating and maintenance
costs associated with manioc mills indicates that this type of investment is
financially sustainable, leaving the association with enough funds to amortize the
mill and its equipment in 5 years as compared to its average useful economic life
of 12 years.
(d)  Tractors for communal use (10% of subprojects submitted). This subproject type,
which costs roughly US$33,300 or US$440 per beneficiary, benefits on average
some 76 farmers. Not surprisingly, tractor use has facilitated increases in the area
under cultivation for a number of crops (manioc, maize, beans, cashew, horticulture
crops and, to a lesser extent, sugarcane and dry season rice) and in their yields and
productivity, resulting in a significant gain in the incomes of the corresponding
association members. Also, as elsewhere in the world, tractors are labor-using
when used primarily in pre-harvest production activities. In total, the 198 tractor
subprojects under implementation and/or completed will benefit 15,000 producers
and create 9,900 jobs (including the equivalent of additional person-days from crop
cultivation). The net income of the association owning the tractor, after deduction
of all operation and maintenance expenditures, is sufficient to cover the initial
investment after a period of 5 years, which is much less than its average useful
economic life of 10 years.
(e)   Rice mills (less than 2% of subprojects submitted). The benefits from rice mills are
similar to those of manioc mills--i.e., reduced processing costs, savings in time and
effort, increased areas, production (including for subproducts for animal feed),
incomes and employment. In addition, rice mills allow association members to
produce and sell milled rice rather than unhusked rice at a much lower cost than
prior to the project. At an average cost of US$11,000 or US$234 per beneficiary
(on average 47 association members, plus an additional 7 producers who process
their rice at the project mill), this type of subproject brings an annual incremental
income of US$330 per beneficiary, resulting from savings in processing costs and
increased production of rice and its subproducts.  The 62 subprojects under
implementation and/or completed in this category will benefit more than 2,900
producers and create some 400 jobs. Milling revenues net of operation and
maintenance costs allow the rice mill association to fully amortize its plant after 5



- 37 -                         Annex 2
Page 7 of 13
years, compared to an average useful economic life of 12 years normally assumed
for this type of investment.
(f)   Clothes making (2% of subprojects submitted). The most popular type of non-
agricultaral productive projects, clothes-making subprojects cost US$9,100 or
US$109 per beneficiary, with each association comprising an average of 84
membe:s. The clothes produced are sold on the local market (substituting for
imports, which in some cases were the only kind found before installation of the
subproject) or at weekly fairs in the area. They generate an additional annual
income of about US$190 per beneficiary.  The 88 such subprojects under
implementation and/or completed will benefit a total of 7,400 people, create some
1,600 jobs, mostly for women, and generate a gross value of production of about
US$5 million per annum.
(g)  House improvement (less than 4%  of subprojects submitted). The dwellings of
many rural families in the Northeast are in poor condition and often associated with
lack of hygiene which can lead to very serious health problems (e.g., the often fatal
disease, chagas, which is spread by an insect favoring materials like the thatched
roofs of traditional rural houses in the interior). The average cost of making the
necessary reforms is about US$33,000 per project--US$460 per beneficiary family
(71 per subproject) and US$90/m2, which is low. In specific areas, when the
subproject involves strictly rehabilitation and employs local materials and
beneficiaries' own labor, the cost can even be as low as US$33/in2. It is estimated
that the 116 house improvement subprojects under implementation and/or completed
will benefit some 8,200 families in total, and indications are that consequent
improvements in the living conditions of these families have an important positive
impact on their health.
(h)  Day care centers (less than 1 % of subprojectu submitted). Another social subproject
in relatively high demand is the establishment of nurseries or kindergartens. The
29 subprojects already under construction and/or completed, at an average cost of
US$26,000 or US$290 per family (91 beneficiary families per subproject), will
benefit some 2,600 families. By freeing the mothers from child care responsibilities
during the day, these subprojects increase the capacity of mothers to work and earn
additional income, estimated at about US$230 per beneficiary per year and totalling
some US$605,000. Other benefits include an increase in their time for leisure,
educational activities and food preparation.
16.       Cost-effectiveness was determined by estimating, where appropriate, the total
investment cost per additional job created by the subprojects, as well as social benefit-cost ratios.
Benefit-cost ratios are high ( > 3.0) for all subprojects analyzed, and the initial investment per
additional job created was low for all productive subprojects (more than 10 times lower than in
the industry and service sectors). Social internal rates of return were also estimated for the four
types of productive subprojects--they all exceed 50%. Both analyses were made assuming



- 38 -                          Annex 2
Page 8 of 13
constant benefits over an eight-year subproject life cycle (Table 2.7). In addition to these positive
impacts, benefits are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities.
17.        Sustainability. The financial sustainability analysis of productive subprojects shows
that while beneficiary associations receive a one-time investment grant from the program, this
investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average
beneficiary association is adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investment long before the end of its useful economic life (Table 2.8).
Technical Evaluation
18.        In most PAC and FUMAC subprojects, works are generally of good quality,
particularly when implemented by private contractors (75 % of subprojects). With the remaining
25% of subprojects (20% executed by municipalities, with unskilled labor often provided by
beneficiaries, and 5% implemented by the communities themselves), the quality varies but
remains generally fair to good. Only for a very small proportion (less than 5% of all
subprojects) is construction quality rated as poor.
19.        Nevertheless, some shortcomings were detected in a number of subprojects, namely
the overdesign of works due to lack of technical criteria and/or competent technical assistance,
and leading to discrepancies in investment size and costs per beneficiary for the same type of
projects. In addition, technical assistance provided by UTs or other entities to communities in
planning and executing projects, has sometimes been found to be inadequate. Despite the
availability of funds under NRDP to hire professional assistance with planning or
implementation, such assistance is hard to secure in rural areas--in part because under the
reformulated NRDP technical assistance funds were tied to the subproject and could not be
released to remunerate contracted professionals if the association's proposal was rejected.
20.        Because of their relatively small size, PAC/FUMAC subprojects generally do not
produce significant effects on the environment. However, certain types of projects, by their
very nature, produce environmentally undesirable by-products (e.g. from the processing of
manioc) or lead to increased use of products that may have a negative environmental impact
(fertilizers and pesticides associated with the use of tractors, wood for fuel in cassava and rice
mills, etc.). Additional consideration would be given to these aspects under the proposed new
project.
Institutional Assessment
21.        Institutional analysis of the reformulated NRDP and of the role played by the various
actors in the program yields a generally favorable picture:
(a)   Once initiated, community associations generally function well, apart from some
isolated cases of apathy or of takeover by individuals trying to monopolize benefits.
Appointment of office-holders, payment of dues or user fees and accounting all
seem to be taken seriously by the members. However, associations do have



- 39 -                         Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
difficultv with paperwork and the cost of legal registration. They also find it hard
to comply with the level of detail required to submit proposals under PAC or
FUMAC, although the more than 21,000 subprojects submitted would seem to belie
this claim;
(b)  Development and performance of the FUMAC Municipal Councils are affected by
the att.tude of the local political power base, especially that of the mayor (prefeito).
However, in most cases mayors are supportive and the disparate interests
represented in the FUMAC councils have found a modus vivendi;
(c)  NGOs have played a mixed role. In many cases, churches, rural labor unions and
some more technical NGOs are playing a useful part in subproject implementation
in certain states--stimulating and helping with the initial formation of community
association., or providing assistance with submission or execution of community
proposals. NGOs in these categories see the NRDP as a source of additional funds
to support their work. On the other hand, some of those contacted via initial
publicity campaigns were unsuited or unwilling to become involved in the
reformulated NRDP. Others would only participate if project funds were channelled
through them;
(d)  Many rural municipalities have limited annual budgets and very little revenue of
their own.   Since their funds barely cover operating costs, most project
municipalities view the reformulated NRDP as a welcome source of additional
resources for investment.  For the most part, mayors, municipal legislature
members (vereadores) and municipal administrations have supported and participated
in NRDP, although at times mayors or legislators have attempted to subvert the
program to their own ends. Only in a few cases has the weakening of the
traditional clientelismo implied by the FUMAC approach aroused open opposition
or boycott. In such cases, PAC still operated satisfactorily and allowed beneficiary
associations to bypass the municipal authorities and submit proposals directly to the
state UTs; and
(e)  The technical units (UTs) are located within the Planning Secretariat of each state.
Most have established several field offices, each with one or more technicians. In
some cases UTs also handle other development programs in the state but usually
these are programs of minor importance. That the UTs have generally been
successful in promoting NRDP is obvious from the overwhelming community
response. However, despite their size (generally 40-60 technicians), UTs find it
hard to process the large number of subproject proposals and to provide technical
assistance for the preparation and implementation of subprojects4. To provide
sufficient technical support to communities the UTs have in some cases forged
4.   Subproject proposal processing has not been a major limiting factor, considering that more than 15,000
subprojects have been approved in little more than a year.



- 40 -                        Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
successful alliances with NGOs (e.g. the AssociaCao de Apoio as Comunidades do
Campo (AACC) in Rio Grande do Norte). Support has also been provided by
different state extension services (EMATER), but their response has generally been
poor. In some states, while there is no official alliance between the UT and
EMATER, individual extensionists may still support NRDP ad personam. UTs
themselves receive project technical assistance, mostly contracted from international
agencies, such as the Instituto Interamericano de Cooperaglo para a Agricultura
(IICA) and FAO.
Advantages of FUMAC over PAC
22.       The data on subprojects implemented under the program show that FUMAC has
outperformed PAC in a number of ways. First, although only 12% of total subproject proposals
submitted by communities are under FUMAC (the pilot nature of this component necessarily
limited its area of intervention), 13 % of all subprojects under implementation and/or completed,
and only 4% of those rejected, belong to this component and account for 16% of all
beneficiaries under the program. Second, although the average cost per subproject is similar for
PAC and FUMAC (Table 2.4), the number of beneficiaries per subproject is on average 40%
higher in FUMAC than in PAC, resulting in a cost per beneficiary which is considerably less
for FUMAC subprojects.
23.       Although socio-economic benefits produced by the two components are similar in
many respects, there is enough evidence to assert that greater community participation and
transparency have been achieved through FUMAC and that FUMAC-generated projects, most
likely through better selection and prioritization by the beneficiaries, are able to meet the
program's criteria better than PAC subprojects. In addition, FUMAC has contributed to
increased community organization and capacity to identify, plan and implement their own
projects.
E. Summary of Results and Findings from Other Studies/Reports
24.       Other studies of the reformulated NRDP provide qualitative analyses which, focusing
on FUMAC, primarily address institutional issues such as decentralization, municipalization,
community organization and participation, transparency in decision-making, and the role of the
State in the provision of training and technical assistance to municipalities. The following
positive findings are cited in the various studies as the reformulated NRDP's main achievements:
improvement in the living conditions and nutritional situation of the rural poor; positive
multiplier effects of successful subprojects; support to rural communities and associations, and
recognition of their potential; incentives and other positive contributions to community
organization and participation; increases in value added of rural activities, production, incomes,
and employment generation; and containment of rural/urban migration. On the other hand, some
aspects which need improvement are: bureaucratic procedures and excessive documentation
requirements; delays in subproject approval and fund disbursements; lack of technical assistance
on the part of UTs; funding limitations and subproject cost ceilings; unavailability of local
technical staff to assist communities in preparing and implementing subprojects; lack of



- 41 -                         Annex 2
Paae 11 of 13
municipal participation and funds to contribute to subproject costs; weak participation of
communities in prioritization of subprojects; and insufficient knowledge of the program by
communities.
25.       Reports of World Bank and FAO missions all stress that the program's overall
impact on the rural poor is generally positive and that available evidence would indicate that
FUMAC subprojecis meet the program's stated objectives better than PAC subprojects. While
there is consensus that the reformulated NRDP as a whole and itc constituent elements PAC and
FUMAC are successful, there are also some areas that need improvement, mostly under PAC,
which are similar to those already listed, specifically: the need for improved targeting and
greater transparency; design problems, particularly with regard to insufficient technical criteria,
excessive bureaucracy, and lack of adequate community participation in subproject selection and
execution; unsustainability of project investments and of beneficiary associations; lack of
counterpart fands; and, tack of subproject supervision and follow-up. However, the reports also
concur that these problems have not affected the majority of subprojects and can be corrected
or ciizumvented with improved design criteria aimed specifically at these issues.
F. Lessons for Project Design and Implementation
26.       The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil, starting with the POLONORDESTE Program (1975-84)
and more recently under the NRDP (Northeast Rural Development Program, 1985-93). The
NRDP, following a reformulation in 1993, focused on small, client-driven subproject
investments implemented by the communities themselves, with decentralized project management
at the state and local levels and more transparent decision-making and accountability for project
performance. Implementation since 1993 has provided important lessons for the proposed
project:
(a)  Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from federal to state and
local governments tends to result in more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to rural
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly-defined and
well-disseminated system of checks and balances to discourage the misuse of funds;
(b)  Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and a
willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance of
project investments.   Beneficiary participation in the selection, execution,
supervision and financing of project investments ensures that investments respond
to a true need, generate cost savings and increase accountability at the local level;
(c)  Sustainabilitv of project investments has greater potential when the municipalities
and communities contribute to the subproject financing in a cost-sharing
arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation. For example,
the participatory process introduced in the FUMAC component of the reformulated
NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries;



- 42 -                         Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
(d)  Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be based
on objective criteria; foster greater transparency and minimize political interference
in project resource allocation; and ensure that project resources reach the poorest
communities;
(e)  Technical assistance should be facilitated to rural communities to enable them to
identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their
capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance should also be
targeted to project Municipal Councils to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity;
(f)   Standardization of subproiect documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies
the subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of
goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects,
encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks
in the subproject cycle; and
(g)  A  user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system  facilitates the subproject
evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and serves as an effective management and planning tool.
G. Conclusions
27.        The lessons learned from the NRDP, especially since reformulation, show that after
several years of experience with rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measure of
success has been achieved in effectively reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions.
While the analyses have also shown some deficiencies in a minority of specific subprojects, these
can be easily rectified by modifications to the project design. The design of the proposed Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project has explicitly taken into account all of these lessons, which are
consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions
with similar community-based development programs:
(a)  The project will expand FUMAC and initiate a pilot municipal funds program, to
promote further decentralization of decision-making to municipal and community
levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the
minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of
subprojects;
(b)  The project will employ a poverty targeting methodology based on a series of
poverty-related criteria at the municipal, community and beneficiary levels, backed
by a strong system of operational checks and balances to thwart mistargeting and
misappropriation of resources;



- 43 -                         Annex 2
Page 13 of 13
(c)  As a condition of loan effectiveness, the project will enhance its monitoring and
evaluation system to reinforce the targeting mechanism and to facilitate better
control and project management throughout the subproject cycle by the State Project
Coordinating Units;
(d)  For simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and supervision,
as we'l as for minimizing design deficiencies, the Project Operational Manual will
establish standard engineering designs, technical aDd financial parameters, and cost
indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects.  Also, environmental
assessment criteria will be part of the Operational Manual;
(e)  Funds for technical assistance and training will be facilitated to rural communities
and Municipal Councils to enable participation of the poorest areas, foster
communit;r capacity and empowerment, and encourage the active participation of
able and competent NGOs and local development agencies;
(f)  In addition to the measures above, participation and transparency will be further
enhanced by setting clear rules for the composition and modus operandi of project
Munizipal Councils, with more than 80% of members coming from community
representatives and the local civil society; and
(g)  A  system  of operational checks and balances will be included to promote
transparency.   Disincentives and penalties against departures from  project
guidelines--misappropriation, mistargeting, faulty project design, lack of
participation or lack of proper O&M--will accompany the increased decentralization
of resources and decision-making responsibilities to beneficiaries and project
Municipal Councils, with ex post control by the State through auditing of accounts,
and supervision and monitoring.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State, US$ million
(as of February- 15, 1995)
State          Original Loan    Disbursement at    Cancellations 2)       Actual            Already          Outstanding
Amount       Reformulation "                        Disbursement      Committed after       Balance 4)
after        Reformulation 3
Reformulation
Sergipe                        61.3              39.9                1.0                7.4                6.7                6.3
Rio Grande do Norte            61.4              36.1               10.0                2.7                3.9                8.7
Pernambuco                     92.0              51.8               20.0                4.1                1.6               14.5
Bahia                         171.0              59.4               60.0               28.2                9.5               13.9
Ceara                          78.0              34.0               25.0                7.4                1.9                9.7
Piaui                         122.0              45.1               30.0                5.8                4.3               36.8
Paraiba                        60.0              24.0                0.0                5.1                2.7               28.2
Minas Gerais                   55.0              14.1                0.0                2.4                2.7               35.8
Maranhao                       84.0              25.0                0.0                7.0                2.3               49.7
Alagoas                        42.0              12.6                0.0                1.5                1.3               26.6
Total                         826.7             342.0              146.0               71.6               36.9              230.2      a <
Notes: " Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.                                                                             x
2) Cancellation became effeclive oni December 21, 1994.                                                                           _
3) Figures do not include a large number of community subprojects for which the first installment has been made but which are awaiting transfer of
more loan funds, nor subprojects already approved but which have yet to be implemented.
4) As of February 15, 1995.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by State, at Various Stages of Processing
(as of February 25, 1995)
State              Number of subprojects                          Subproject distribution according to stage of processing'D
Total      PAC        FUMAC                0           1          2           3          4           5          6
Sergipe                 430         370          60                0           9          88          3           1        173         156
Rio Grande do Norte   1,152       1,035         117                 0        607           0         62         156        327           0
Pernambuco            1,894       1,682         212             1,094        184         172         12           0        250         182
Bahia                11,575      10,099        1,476               0           0       8,231        237          22      2,259        826
Piaui                 1,385       1,329          56             1,001          0           0          0         140         49         195
Ceara                 1,243       1,106          137             231         144         315         52           0        367         134
Paraiba                 721         607         114              477           1           2          0          13        150          78
Minas Gerais            580         442         138              302           0           1          8         46         194         29
Maranhao              1,703       1,497         206              742         302         116         61           1        363         118
Alagoas                 403         389           14             295          26           0          1           0         76           5
Total                21,086      18,556       2,530             4,142      1,273       8,925        436         379      4,208       1,723
Note:  '" Processing stages:
0 = proposals received by UT waiting for appraisal
1 = proposals being appraised by UT                                                                                                       :
2 = proposals approved, negotiating with beneficiary associations/conmmunities on terms of agreements to be signed                           x
3 = rejected proposals
4 = proposals approved, agreements prepared, awaiting for loan funds
5 = proposals approved, funds released to associations, projects being implemented
6 = completed projects
Total demand = 0+1 +2+3+4+5+6



- 46 -                                Annex 2
Table 2.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Community Demand -- Distribution of Subprojects Submitted by Type, NRDP
(as of February 25, 1995)
Total NRDP                 NRDP
Type of Project            (All states)               Ceara
% 
Infrastructure                          55.2                     23.2
Productive                              41.9                     70.5
Social                                   2.9                      6.3
Total                                  100.0                    100.0
Water supply                            19.3                     10.0
Rural electrification                   17.6                      3.4
Farm tractor                             9.7                     15.6
Manioc flour mill                        8.0                      4.4
House improvement                        3.5                      1.0
Irrigation                               2.6                      3.5
Sanitation                               2.3                      3.9
Clothes making                           2.2                      3.0
Bridges                                  2.1                      1.4
Brick making                             2.1                      1.0
Rice processing                          1.5                      2.1
Localized road                           2.7                      0.8
rehabilitation
Maize processing                         1.2                      0.3
Child day care centers                   0.5                      0.6
Cashew processing                        0.5                      1.9
Other                                   24.2                     47.1
Total                                  100.0                    100.0



- 47 -                               Annex 2
Table 2.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Average Cost of Subprojects under hnplementation and/or Completed
(US$)
State                    Number of Subprojects                     Average Cost')
(Stages 5 & 6)1)                         (US$)
PAC       FUMAC         Total             PAC         FUMAC
Sergipe                             278          51          329             27,328       24,157
Rio Grande do Norte                 266          28          294             24,706       23,537
Pemambuco                           147          21          168             34,517       36,064
Bahia                              1,484         119       1,603             16,103       16,390
Piaui                               237            7         244             14,647       12,312
Ceara                               423          78          501             27,465       28,488
Paraiba                             157          71          228             11,711       12,588
Minas Gerais                        175          48          223             30,529       24,729
Maranhgo                            386          95          481             19,731       20,487
Alagoas                              49            6          55             21,302       21,717
Total                             3,602         524        4,126             21,714       21,838
Notes:                        " Projects under implementation and/or completed
2) Includes beneficiary contributions



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and by State
Average Cost by Type ) 2)
STATE                                                                   (UsS)
Manioc    Farm      Water      Rural      Small    Tube     Rice       House    Small-scale          Clothes
Type of Project: flour mill  tractor   supply  electrification   dam  well   process.  improvement  irrigation   Bridge   making
Sergipe               11,688    33,038   19,800       25,387      ---                ---      25,542        ---  28,332       ---
Rio Grande do Norte    20,489    35,752   15,991      19,605   25,145      ---       ---         ---    29,371       ---  19,841        oo
Pernambuco           26,488    38,939   21,369        32,758   30,595      ---       ---      37,633    35,352       ---      ---
Bahia                 10,705       ---   17,286       22,995   12,012   10,697   12,377       20,509    19,837   18,888   20,537
Piauf                 3,927    27,312   10,317        21,940   16,745    6,782    9,285       22,198    14,168   28,301    4,207
Ceara                 14,796    38,576   20,760       32,412   28,321   12,946   29,043           ---   30,504       ---  28,278
Paraiba               11,190    39,648   10,307       16,584      ---   2,932    2,147            ---    14,033      ---   7,843
Minas Gerais         29,570    35,862       ---       30,947    7,326    4,619      ---          ---    16,892   37,110       ---
Maranhao              10,277    35,925   17,824       30,145   24,142   21,042   11,004       39,083    22,113   15,265   15,633
Alagoas               16,176    27,751      ---       33,608      ---       ---      ---      16,439       ---       ---      ---
Total                 12,123    36,520   18,274       25,279   13,943   10,049   11,925       30,023    21,963   22,350   19,835
PAC                   11,847    36,340   19,078       25,716   13,927   10,123   11,910       31,994    22,606   22,168   19,855
FUMAC                 14,956    37,194   15,078       22,878   14,208    7,622   11,978       17,488    18,227   23,613   19,671     g
Notes:                  " Costs include beneficiary contributions
2) Nature and technical specification for the same type of project vary within and among states



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP
(as of February 25, 1995)
Number of Municipalities 1)
Stae       SImplemented/completed projects per
In the State   In the    With implemented/completed projects                   municipality
Aroect       ToI         PAC        FUMAC              Total        PAC       FUMAC
Sergipe                  75           74          68          61            7                4.8          4.6         7.3
Rio Grande do Norte      159         158          56          50            6                 5.3         5.3         4.7
Pernambuco               174         167          99          87           12                4.4          4.2         5.5
Bahia                   415          264         252         234           18                12.2        11.6        21.1
Piaui                    143         124          77          75            2                3.2          3.2         3.5
Ceari                    178         120         100          89           11                5.0          4.8         7.1
Paraiba                  171         109          71          61           10                3.2          2.6         7.1
Minas Gerais             50           50          54          40           14                4.1          4.4         3.4
MaranhAo                 136         135          98          88           10                4.9          4.4         9.5
Alagoas                  97           57          23          18            5                3.5          3.9         2.0
Total                  1,598       1,258         898         803          95                 4.8          4.7         5.9
Note:                 ") The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the project area
because some original PAC municipalities later became FUMAC



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Socio-economic Benefits of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
Project Type     Total No. of    Total No. of    Cost per      Total No.      Total Net         Net            Total          Social                 Cost
Subprojects    Beneficiaries    Beneficiary    of Jobs     Incremental    Incremental    Incremental       Internal             Effectiveness
being                         (USS)        Created       Income per    Income per       Crop Area        Rate of
hnpumented                                                     Year         Beneficiary       (ha)          Return           Total           Social
and/or                                                   (USS '000)       per Year                         (          hivestment per     Benefit-
Completed                                                                    (US$)                                       Job Created        Cost
(USS)          Ratio"
Infrastructure                                                                                                                                                                    LA
Rural water
supply                976        138,592            142           ----           ----
Rural
electrification       758         36,384           400            ----           ----           -.--
Productive
Manioc mills          380         39,520           297         11.460         14,890             377          7,900          > 50              1,273           >3.0
Tractors for
communal use          198          15,048          438          9,900         11,587             770         36,080          > 50               816            >3.0
Rice nills             62          2,932           234           398             968             330           1,220         > 50              2,895           >3.0
Clothes
making                 88          7,360           109          1,583          1,400             190             --          > 50               925            >3.0
Social
House
improvement           116          8,236           461            ----           ----            ----            ---           --                                               ,
Child care
centers                29          2,639           290            ----           605             229             ----        > 50                ----          >3.0
Note:      Real discount rate is 10%.



- 51 -                                Annex 2
Table 2.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Financial Sustainability Analysis of Productive Subprojects
Item/Project                          Manioc Mill             Rice Mill           Farm Tractor
Number of associations                    380                    62                     198
Average net income per                   3,737                  2,131                  6,631
association (US$)')
Average cost of subproject (US$)         20,000                11,000                 33,300
Aversge number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)            12                    12                     10
To build replacement fund (years)2)        5                      5                      5
Notes:  " Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2N Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original
investment, which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment. The real interest
rate is assumed to be 10%.



- 52 -                            Annex 3
Page I of 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities
1.         Targeting of the rural poor is of critical importance in the project particularly as
justification for the use of grants for subproject financing. Under the project, it is proposed that
targeting occurs at four levels:
(a)   geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the municipalities;
(b)   geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and communities;
(c)   community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups
by the project Municipal Councils; and
(d)   project-based selection through the incentive structure and the cost-sharing matrix.
2.          Municipalities. Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area. All
municipalities, with exception of the metropolitan area of Fortaleza,' are included in the project
area. Targeting of the 176 project municipalities takes into consideration the concentration of
income and economic activity in the metropolitan area and the high incidence of poverty in the
municipalities of the interior, manifested by such as indicators as the rate of indigence,2
availability of municipal resources, and other socio-economic indicators (Annex 1).  For
example, the average income per capita for the project municipalities is estimated at US$427,
while in the metropolitan area of Fortaleza this average estimate reaches US$2,640.3 In
addition, according to IPEA (1993), all the project municipalities suffer a rate of indigence
greater than 50%, 73% register over 60%, and 21 % harbor an indigence rate greater than 70%.
Also, since rural poverty in Ceara is closely correlated with the poor natural resource base, the
harsh agro-climatic conditions and concentration of land ownership, the project municipalities
are situated in the semi-arid region of the state and include the area currently served by the
reformulated NRDP, characterized as small farm areas. A list of the project municipalities is
included in this Annex.
1.    Within the metropolitan municipality of Caucaia, small rural settlements created by agrarian reform will
enter into the project area.
2.     Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by IPEA
divided by the total number of families in the municipality. See 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, March 1993.
3.     Perfil da Renda dos Municipios do Ceara (preliminary estimates), SEPLAN-IPLANCE, 1991.



- 53 -                         Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
3.         Within the project municipalities, the selection of PAC and FUMAC municipalities
will be based on criteria such as past performance under the reformulated NRDP, estimation of
the organizational capacity of communities within the municipality, and "progressiveness" of the
mayor and municipal administration, among other criteria.  The criteria for selection of
FUMAC-P municipalities is included in Annex 5.
4.         Rural Settlements and Communities. The second level of targeting, that within
municipalities, focusses on rural settlements and communities.  Beneficiary settlements or
communities are limited to those with a population under 7,500 people.
5.         Community-based Selection.  The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based selection. The project assumes that local communities can best judge which
community groups are poor and what investment priorities are in each municipality. The role
of consensus-building at the local level by project Municipal Councils aims to ensure that only
poor communities benefit from the project. During the open meetings to set priorities, criteria
such as the socio-economic situation of the participating communities, including existing
infrastructure and availability of services, would be discussed as part of the ranking of
subprojects within the municipality. The composition of the Municipal Councils, in which 80%
are representatives from rural communities and the local civil society, as well as the clear and
transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning, are important elements which
facilitate targeting poor beneficiaries. Finally, indicative targets set for social projects and
projects which benefit women in particular, should be considered by the Municipal Councils as
criteria for subproject selection, insofar as the principles of need and perceived benefits guide
ranking decisions.
6.         Project-based Selection. A fourth level of targeting relates to the incentive structure
which favors certain types of projects and to standard project designs which would permit
Municipal Councils and the PCU (in the case of PAC) to readily appraise and approve
subprojects. A cost-sharing matrix would be employed which would distinguish between four
different types of subprojects:  social, infrastructure, productive and leisure subprojects.
Modification of the incentive structure to require different amounts from communities will favor
some types of subprojects. The following cost-sharing matrix is proposed:
Project Type      | Beneficiaries/   Municipality    State         Bank
Community                    Government
Social infrastructure               > 10%                 > 30%          < 60%
Economic infrastructure             > 15%                 > 25%          < 60%
Productive projects          > 20%          > 0%          < 20%          < 60%
Leisure projects, e.g.,             > 25%                 < 25%          < 50%
conummunity halls



- 54 -                              Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
7.          The effectiveness of the targeting methodology would be assessed through the project
monitoring system and through ex-post evaluation studies. For example, annual physical
performance reviews (Annex 7) would monitor the targeting of project benefits. Also, the Mid-
Tern Review (Annex 7) would measure the ability of the project to target and reach the poor.
Adjustments and fine-tuning of the targeting methodology would be based on these ex-post
reviews, in agreement with the Bank.
List of Municipalities in Project Area
1. Abaiara                      36. Caridade                      71. Ic6
2. Acaraui                      37. Carire                        72. Icapui
3. Acarape                      38. Caririacu                     73. Iguatu
4. Acopiara                     39. Carnaubal                     74. Independencia
5. Aiuaba                       40. Cascavel                      75. Ipaporanga
6. Alca.ntaras                  41. Catarina                      76. Ipaumirim
7. Altaneira                    42. Catunda                       77. Ipu
8. Alto Santo                   43. Caucaial                      78. Ipueiras
9. Amontada                     44. Cedro                         79. Iracema
10. Antonina do Norte            45. Chaval                        80. Irau,uba
11. Apuiares                     46. Choro                         81. Itai,aba
12. Aracati                      47. Chorozinho                    82. Itapage
13. Aracoiaba                    48. Coreau                        83. ltapiuina
14. Ararenda                     49. Crateus                       84. Itapipoca
15. Araripe                      50. Crato                         85. Itarema
16. Aratuba                      51. Croata                        86. Itatira
17. Arneiroz                     52. Cruz                          87. Jaguaretama
18. Assare                       53. Deputado Irapuan Pinheiro.    88. Jaguaribara
19. Aurora                       54. Erere                         89. Jaguaribe
20. Baixio                       55. Farias Brito                  90. Jaguaruana
21. Banabuiii                    56. Forquilha                     91. Jardim
22. Barbalha                     57. Fortim                        92. Jati
23. Barreira                     58. Frecheirinha                  93. Jijoca de Jericoacoara.
24. Barro                        59. General Sampaio               94. Juazeiro do Norte
25. Barroquinha                  60. Gra,a                         95. Jucas
26. Baturite                     61. Granja                        96. Lavras da Mangabeira.
27. Beberibe                     62. Granjeiro                     97. Limoeiro do Norte
28. Bela Cruz                    63. Groairas                      98. Madalena
29. Boa Viagem                   64. Guaraciaba do Norte.          99. Marco
30. Brejo Santo                  65. Guaramiranga                 100. Martin6pole
31. Camocim                      66. Hidrolandia                  101. Massape
32. Campos Sales                 67. Horizonte                    102. Mauriti
33. Caninde                      68. Ibaretama                    103. Meruoca
34. Capistrano                   69. Ibiapina                     104. Milagres
35. Carius                       70. Ibicuitinga                  105. Milha
1. Only rural settlements resulting from agrarian reform.



-55-                                  Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
106. Miraima                       138. Potengi                       170. Umari
107. Missao Velha                  139. Potiretama                    171. Umirim
108. Momba,a                       140. Quiterian6polis               172. Uruburetama
109. Monsenhor Tabosa              141. Quixada                       173. Uruoca
110. Moraujo                       142. Quixelo                       174. Varzea Alegre
111. Morada Nova                   143. Quixere                       175. Varjota
112. Morrinhos                     144. Quixeramobim                  176. Vicosa do Ceara
113. Mucambo                       145. Reden,ao
114. Mulungu                       146. Reriutaba
115. Nova Olinda                   147. Russas
116. Nova Russas                   148. Saboeiro
117. Novo Oriente                  149. Salitre
118. Ocara                         150. Santa Quiteria
119. Or6s                          151. Santana do Acaraui
120. Pacajus                       152. Santana do Cariri
121. Pacoti                        153. Sao Benedito
122. Pacuja                        154. Sao Gon,alo do Amarante.
123. Palhano                       155. Sao Joao do Jaguaribe.
124. Palmacia                      156. Sao Luis do Curu
125. Paracuru                      157. Senador Pompeu
126. Paraipaba                     158. Senador Sa
127. Parambu                       159. Sobral
128. Paramoti                      160. Solon6pole
129. Pedra Branca                  161. Tabuleiro do Norte
130. Penaforte                     162. Tamboril
131. Pentecoste                    163. Tarrafas
132. Pereiro                       164. Taua
133. Pindoretama                   165. Teju,uoca
134. Piquet Carneiro               166. Tiangua
135. Pires Ferreira                167. Trairi
136. Poranga                       168. Tururu
137. Porteiras                     169. Ubajara



- 56 -                        Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Institutional Development
Project Coordinating Unit
1.        The Departamento de Programas Especiais (DEPES), a department of the State
Secretariat of Planning and Coordination (SEPLAN), will act as the Project Coordinating Unit
(PCU), with overall responsibility for project coordination and administration.   The
Department's long-standing experience with rural development has been acquired through
overseeing, since 1974, the implementation of a series of Bank-supported projects in the State,
including POLONORDESTE and the NRDP. At the central level, working within the integrated
framework of Government actions as outlined in the new State strategy, SEPLAN closely
coordinates with other Secretariats (e.g., Labor and Social Action, Agriculture and Agrarian
Reform, and other concerned Secretariats) on rural development and sectoral strategies of
relevance to the PCU's activities.
2.        The structure of the PCU  includes, under the Director, three Divisions
(Programming, Technical Support and Financial Control) which have a professional staff
totalling 38--including the three Division Chiefs--plus related administrative and support staff.
The professional staff include mostly agronomists, economists and "administrators." The
Programming Division is principally in charge of analyzing community demand for priority
investments and for appraising subproject proposals both in technical and financial terms. The
Technical Support Division is responsible for assisting community associations and FUMAC
Municipal Councils throughout the whole subproject cycle, including on legal aspects, for
providing technical advice to the associations and for monitoring and supervising subproject
implementation. These two divisions collaborate in the preparation of annual operating plans
for the project, and undertake periodic field supervision. The Financial Control Division is
charged with administrative and financial aspects related to disbursements, accounts and audits
of subproject funds.  At the field level, the PCU operates with 12 Regional Units or
Coordenadorias covering the whole state with 20 coordinators and/or technicians, who are rural
development specialists trained in agricultural planning. Some of the Regional Units are
strikingly understaffed, such as that of Itapipoca where one technician alone covers 32
municipalities. Effective field coordination and supervision of project activities by the PCU
requires that these Units be reorganized and strengthened, in order to achieve a more balanced
and adequate coverage of project municipalities (e.g., one technician to serve no more than five
municipalities). Strengthening of regional units could be done, in most cases, by requesting
existing local staff of other public entities such as EMATERs to work with the PCU, Support
from other institutions would be provided for the identification and appraisal of community



- 57 -                        Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
subprojects as well as for technical assistance to, and training of, beneficiary communities in
their respective fields--in particular, the Secretariat of Labor and Social Action for small-scale
income-generating activities for both men and women (clothes making, handicrafts, etc.), the
Secretariat of Water Resources for community rural water supply and irrigation projects and the
provision of technical advice on water use, the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce for small-
scale agro-industries, and the State Superintendency for the Environment and the Brazilian
Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) on environmental
aspzcts.
3.        While the PCU's monitoring and supervision functions would be increased under
the proposed project, its executive role would be considerably reduced given the expansion of
the FUMAC subcomponent and the delegation of many decision-making and project
implementation responsibilities to project Municipal Councils, particularly that of evaluation,
approval and supervision of subprojects under FUMAC and FUMAC-P. The PCU will prepare
the project annual operatin, plans (POAs), having reviewed and consolidated the POAs
submitted by the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, and will ensure timely and adequate
availability of loan and state colmterpart funds for project implementation. It will appraise and
approve PAC community subproject proposals facilitated by the use of standardized technical
designs and cost indicators for subprojects; administer and release the funds to beneficiary
associations for subprojects approved by FUMAC Municipal Councils; and allocate and release
annual budget envelopes to FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. The PCU will also provide
technical advice and training to project NMunicipal Councils.
Municipal Councils
4.        FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils will carry the primary responsibility
for subproject approval and for technical and organizational assistance to beneficiary associations
in their respective communities. The project Councils comprise representatives from the rural
communities, civil groups and local organizations such as NGOs, churches and labor unions, and
publicly-elected representatives and municipal government officials. While their composition
may vary from one municipality to another, representatives from rural communities and the civil
society must make up at least 80% of the Councils' members. The PCU will be represented in
the Municipal Councils but only in an advisory capacity. The Municipal Councils receive
subproject proposals from the communities and through open public meetings, previously
announced, build consensus at the local level on priority investments to be financed under the
project. Council decisions for the approval of subprojects are subsequently made by majority
of votes during the open meetings. The project Councils then monitor and supervise the
implementation of the approved subprojects. Detailed criteria and guidelines for the structure
and operation of the project Municipal Councils will be included in the Project Operational
Manual, and assurances were obtained from the State Government at negotiations that these
criteria and guidelines would be fully observed during project implementation.
5.        The composition and operating procedures of the Municipal Councils are the same
both under the FUMAC program and the FUMAC-P pilot program. Nevertheless, in addition



- 58 -                         Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
to the regular functions of project Councils, the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils will be
responsible for administering subproject funds and releasing them to their community
associations. On the basis of POAs which they prepare for review and approval by the PCU,
the FUMAC-P Councils receive an annual budget envelope from which to finance subprojects.
They would program and monitor the use of the funds from this annual budget, and their
consensus-building and priority-setting tasks therefore take on the added dimension of allocation
and rationalization of fixed amounts of resources.
6.         Project Municipal Councils will come under the umbrella Councils for Development
which are being established in all municipalities in the State.
Institutional Capacity Building
7.         Within the decentralized framework of the project, particular efforts will have to be
made to build up or reinforce, through appropriate technical assistance and training, the
implementation capacity of the various participating entities: beneficiary associations, Municipal
Councils and the PCU. For example, beneficiary associations will need accessible support for
community organization and subproject preparation and execution, as well as training in
operation and maintenance techniques to derive optimal benefit from subproject investments.
The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to orient their decision-making on
resource allocation among community investments and, in the FUMAC-P pilot program, to build
capacity for investment planning and financial management. In addition to providing or making
available from other sources a wide range of skilled technical and managerial advice to the
project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, the PCU--both at the central and
regional levels--will need training to enhance its own project management and supervision skills,
as well as specific skills such as environmental assessment.   I
8.         The instruments for achieving this capacity building would include a combination
of on-site training, workshops, technical exchanges and more traditional technical assistance,
drawing upon local expertise within the state: other public institutions (e.g., Secretariats of
Labor and Social Action, Agriculture and Land Reform, Water Resources, Industry and
Commerce, etc.), technical and management consultants, universities, NGOs, other successful
local service providers and possibly, international organizations. As not all entities need the
same specific skills, the PCU--together with cooperating Secretariats--will develop a Capacity
Building Program in a menu format which lists potential areas of technical skills and other
training and potential service providers for each. The menu would package technical assistance
and training into four categories: (a) a basic introductory capacity-building program for project
Municipal Councils, including intensive training on the project philosophy, subproject cycle, role
of the Municipal Councils and Operational Manual guidelines, aniong other themes;
(b) specialized skills training for the PCU and the project Councils on a demand basis, including
"on-the-job training" in areas such as environmental assessment, monitoring techniques and
financial administration; (c) assistance to commurnities and associations in identification of needs,
subproject preparation, implementation, and operation and maintenance; and (d) workshops and
seminars to exchange experience and disseminate project results.



- 59 -                        Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
9.        From this menu, the PCU would develop and cost an annual technical assistance and
training program for its own staff, for project Municipal Councils and, under PAC, for
beneficiary associations. Also on an annual basis, the project Municipal Councils would plan
specific skills training and beneficiary training, using the menu as a guide but supplementing it
with particular needs when necessary, and submit this plan to the PCU for costing and approval.
For each item in the program, the PCU would assist the Municipal Councils to develop
appropriate terms of reference and program outlines, and in the identification and contracting
of service providers. In those instances in which a large number of beneficiary associations or
Municipal Councils need similar skills--for example, accounting and budgeting for FUMAC-P
Councils, or cperation of irrigation subprojects for several beneficiary associations--the PCU
would organize intensive short training workshops at the state or regional level on that subject
or hire technical experts on a retainer contract to assist in a series of training events across the
state.
10.       Technical assistance and training programs under the project would be elaborated
on the basis Df experier ce obtained from an experimental technical assistance program (Plano
de Assistencia T&enica e Extensao Rural - ATER), to be started in the second part of 1995 under
the on-going NRDP. Implemented in four pilot areas (Sobral, Limoeiro do Norte, Jaguaribe and
Iguatu), ATLR will aim to develop technical and administrative capacity both at the municipal
and community levels by setting up, in each municipality, integrated technical support teams in
which technicians of various public and private agencies, including NGOs, would provide
technical assistance and rural extension services to municipios, Municipal Councils and their
communities.
11.       The funds for institutional development will be administered by the PCU. The latter
will contract all technical assistance and training for the PAC program and in cases of packaging
or upon request by the Municipal Councils within the FUMAC program. FUMAC and
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils will contract technical assistance and training for themselves or
beneficiary associations and communities, with the assistance of the PCU and on the basis of
approved terms of reference. The PCU would monitor the use of institutional development
funds by the project Municipal Councils through review of statements of expenditure (SOEs) and
periodic supervision.



NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Project Organizational Chart
|State Governor   I
Secretary of Planning
and Coordination
(SEP LAN)
|DCabinetS Leg                                                          al Counselt
F Communications                            P                   Technical Counsel
C   Coordinationrt
l Committee       |
IUnder-Se cretary
|Integrated   ||Budget                                    S   pecial Programs       AdmFinnistative parmnd
Adinistration       Department                           Department (DEPES)       FnnilDprmn
Department
Financial    Programming              Technical
Control       Division                Support
Division                              Division
REGIONAL UNITS (12)
* REGIONAL UNITS:         Baturite           Crato                     Itapipoca                  Sobral
Igatu              Ubajara                   Brejo Santo               Crateuis
Limoeiro           Quixadd/Caninde           Tau&                       Jaguaribe



- 61-                         Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
The FUMAC-P Pilot Program
Background
1.        Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project implementation
responsibilities from the State to the local (municipal and community) levels, started under the
reformulated NRDP with the introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC programs,
will be furtier advanc !d in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will expand
significantly under the project. Second, a further step towards decentralization will be reflected
in a pilot program, FUMAC-P, which will promote the transfer of financial management
responsibilities to several FUMAC Municipal Councils.
2.        Generally, municipalities which have participated in FUMAC to date tend to be
those in which the environment for participatory decision-making is more favorable, which
distinguishes them from traditionally-run municipalities with a strong "clientelistic" approach.
This environment has been the result of a conjunction of cultural/political factors such as the
emergence of a movement for the development of civil society (usually induced by religious
organizations, NGOs and more recently by some political parties) and of a new generation of
more open-minded political leaders.
3.        Several important lessons have emerged from the FUMAC experience in the
reformulated NRDP. First, it has proved to be an efficient, transparent approach for identifying
and prioritizing, through local-level consensus building, multiple demands for investments by
needy communities. Second, it has provided the opportunity to experiment not only with
increased transfer of decision-making, including approval of subprojects, from the State-level
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to Municipal Councils representing communities, but also with
the management of community subproject funds by these very Councils. This experience is
reflected in the proposed project in the design of FUMAC and, in particular, FUMAC-P, where
the feasibility of financial management at the grassroots level will be tested.
FUMAC-P: Main Features
4.        The FUMAC-P pilot program would account for at least US$20.7 million--or 18%
of the total base cost of the project--over the five-year implementation period. If the approach
proves successful with the communities and meets its objectives of local-level investment
selection, execution and financial management, FUMAC-P would be expanded during project



-62 -                        Annex 5
Pa,e 2 of 3
implementation with funds initially earmarked for the FUMAC and PAC sub-components (see
para. 10).
5.        Initially, the PCU would select FUMAC-P municipalities/communities from among
the best FUMAC performers under the on-going NRDP, i.e., those with the best record in
administering and executing community subprojects. Additionally, other municipalities which
have a favorable environment for participatory work (extensive community, organization,
municipal officials open to participative decision-making, etc.), and are interested and can
commit themselves to following project guidelines, could be included. There should also be
some indication that local capacity exists to manage financial resources, for instance in
communities or existing associations already managing small-scale businesses (on an individual
or group basis) and whose members could potentially form part of FUMAC-P Municipal
Councils.  As the proposed project gets underway and the FUMAC-P approach proves
successful, other well-performing FUMAC municipalities could gradually be upgraded into
FUMAC-P municipalities.
6.        Once the municipalities are selected, allocation of funds would be done based on a
number of criteria to which different weights will be assigned:
(a)  size of the municipality, in terms of both population and area;
(b)  ratio of rural to total population;
(c)  rate of indigence;
(d)  number and degree of dispersion of poor rural communities;
(e)  availability of public resources per capita;
(f)  number of subprojects approved under the reformulated NRDP (small discriminatory
factor);
(g)  performance in the previous year; and
(h)  willingness of the mayor (prefeito) to participate.
7.        FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition and modes of
operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils (Annex 4). They would be responsible for:
(a)  assisting rural communities in identifying priority needs and translating them into
investment proposals;
(b)  screening and reviewing these proposals, and ensuring that they meet eligibility
criteria as contained in the Project Operational Manual;



- 63 -                        Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
(c)  mqnitoring and supervising, together with the PCU, the implementation of approved
sub-projects;
(d)  providing, directly or through contracting, technical assistance and training to
beneficiary associations in the design and operation and maintenance of project-
financed investments;
(e)  managing subproject funds and transferring funds to beneficiary associations with
approved subprojects; and
(f)  preparing indicative annual operating plans (POAs) for review and approval by the
PCU. The POA would contain a list of community investment priorities, indicative
targets to be met, a tentative timetable, the indicative budget and the technical
assistance required to implement the proposed program. The PCU would review
and approve the POA at the end of the year preceding implementation.
8.        An agreement (co'ivenio) between the PCU and the Municipal Council would
establish the terms and conditions as well as rights and obligations of each party with respect
to the release and use of the approved funds. These (both loan and state counterpart funds)
would be deposited into an account in a commercial bank, and would be withdrawn solely upon
formal order by the Municipal Council. The Council would screen community subproject
proposals on the basis of the approved POA and the funds made available by the PCU. An
agreement (convenio) between the Municipal Council and the beneficiary association would be
required.
9.        Supervision of the operations of the Municipal Councils would be the responsibility
of the PCU. ,
10.       A Mid-Term evaluation of the FUMAC-P program would be carried out by
independent evaluators. The basic purpose of this evaluation will be to assess performance
under the pilot program and, if necessary, to adjust its design and mechanisms in order to
inprove its procedures and impact on beneficiaries. If the pilot program is found successful and
its expansion is justified, part of the PAC and FUMAC funds under the project could be
transferred to the FUMAC-P program.



- 64 -                         Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Subproject Operation and Maintenance
1.        Although the reformulated NRDP has financed many of the same types of
community investments (e.g., manioc mills or small-scale rural water supply projects) that have
been supported under past programs or projects in the Northeast, one of its innovative features
has been to ensure that these investments are operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves, thereby enhancing their sense of ownership and the prospects for sustainability of
the investments. Under the proposed project, this feature will be maintained and strengthened.
2.         Community associations will bear the primary responsibility for O&M for most
project-funded investments, and this provision will be included in the agreements (convenios)
with the associations. The relative responsibilities of the associations for O&M would vary
according to the type of investment. As a general rule, beneficiaries would be fully responsible
for operating and maintaining their own productive subprojects and some social subprojects, such
as day care centers or home improvements for health purposes (e.g. for chagas control). In the
case of schools or health posts rehabilitated under the project, and most infrastructure
subprojects, the responsibility for O&M would normally be shared between the communities and
the relevant State or municipal institution.  In exceptional cases of relatively complex
subprojects, beneficiary associations might contract private firms or NGOs to assist them in
O&M tasks.
3.         Based on experience under the reformulated NRDP, several types of arrangements
would be implemented in order to ensure the financial sustainability of project investments, as
follows:
(a)        Productive Subprojects (e.g., manioc and rice mills, clothes making, small-scale
irrigation schemes, farm machinery, etc.):
4.         Once a subproject has been approved for financing, the beneficiary association elects
a committee to be in charge of subproject implementation and management. This committee has
the task, among others, of determining the different dues and user fees to be charged to
association members (as well as to non-association members using project facilities), based on
estimated requirements for O&M and capital replacement or eventual expansion. User fees have
to be approved by all association members, and may be paid in cash, labor or kind, depending
on the particular situation. The committee is responsible for collecting the fees, placing them
in a "reserve fund", managing the reserve fund, and making payments for recurrent expenditures
such as electricity consumption, fuel, inputs, repairs and employees' salaries.



- 65 -                         Annex 6
Paee 2 of 2
(b)       Social Subprojects (e.g., day care centers, housing improvement, school or
health post rehabilitation):
5.        The degree of community involvement in the O&M of social subprojects depends
on the type of investment. In the case of subprojects related to public services, such as health
posts or schools, the municipality or relevant public/private entity could undertake O&M
following an agreement with the community. For other types of subprojects such as day care
centers or house improvement, the community will be responsible for O&M, each of the
community members contributing either financially or in the form of labor.
(c)       Infrastructure Subprojects (e.g., small bridges, water supply systems, fords,
road repairs):
6.        Different arrangements are to be followed for O&M of infrastructure subprojects.
In the case of services (e.g., water supply) connected to individual households, beneficiaries
could transfer the corresponding assets to the relevant state or municipal utility company, which
then undertakes O&M and recovers costs through user fees. Simplified water supply systems
(without connection to households) will be operated and maintained by the community itself,
which makes arrangements for collection of dues or fees from individual community members
to pay for O&M expenses. These arrangements are commonly found in the rural water supply
subprojects financed urder the reformulated NRDP. For infrastructure subprojects such as
roads, bridges and street paving, which serve a larger public, responsibility for O&M would
normally be shared with the municipality under agreement with the beneficiary association.



- 66 -                         Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
Monitoring
1.        The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system will be instrumental in
following the progression of the investment program and ascertaining its consistency with project
objectives. Project implementation relies heavily on a decentralized system of decision-making
and management, and is driven by demand from rural community associations which is filtered
through a selection process based on established criteria. This process involves a large number
of small, diverse subprojects over an extensive geographic area. Hence, since the ex ante
determination of the pattern of project investment and other key parameters is not possible,
effective supervision depends on the existence of a capable monitoring system.
2.         The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)  provide information regarding the progress of the project and the status of the
subproject cycle in its different stages (e.g., subproject approval, procurement,
implementation and disbursement); and,
(b)  verify  that project activities are consistent with the guidelines, targeting
methodology and selection criteria included in the Project Operational Manual.
3.         The project monitoring system would depend on a Management Information System
(MIS), created under the reformulated NRDP and to be refined under the project. The project
MIS is a data base which contains pertinent physical and financial information for each
subproject, organized in the following format: by program (PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P);
by type (Infrastructure, Productive and Social subprojects); by category (e.g., water supply,
transportation, energy, etc.); by sub-category, in particular for water supply subprojects (e.g.,
dams, wells, tanks, etc.); and by location (municipality, community and beneficiary association).
Information for the MIS is inputted from data sheets for each subproject, separated into three
modules which correspond to key steps of the subproject cycle: Module No. 1 would include
information for the subproject regarding its location, identification, and technical, social and
financial characteristics, as well as a set of indicators such as cost/capita, cost/m2, and other
relevant parameters. Module No. 1 data sheets would be partially completed at the time of
presentation of the subproject proposal and finalized after its appraisal. Module No. 2 data
sheets would include information regarding procurement procedures and contracting, and would
be completed after signature of the contract/convenio with the beneficiary association. Module
No. 3 data sheets would present disbursement data and would be updated at the time of each
payment installment to beneficiary associations and completed at the time of final installment at



- 67 -                        Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
the conclusion of subproject execution. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be
responsible for operating and maintaining the MIS and for providing the input corresponding to
PAC subprojects. The project Municipal Councils would be responsible for completing the data
sheets for FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects and, upon completion of each module, would
present them to the PCU which would subsequently update the MIS.
4.        Given the estimated number of subprojects to be financed during the five years of
project implementation, the MIS is an essential tool for directing the course of project
investment. Infoniation from the MIS is also fundamental to measure compliance with and the
effectiveness of the project's targeting methodology. By monitoring the direction of project
benefits and types of subprojects being financed, the PCU and the Municipal Councils can
reorient investment incentives or make appropriate changes to the cost-sharing matrix, in
agreement with the Bank. Progress in meeting indicative investment targets set for certain types
of subprojects, such as subprojects with special environmental features, social subprojects and
subprojects which benefit women, will be tracked regularly with the MIS and the information
subsequently used to pr gram technical assistance or promotion to corresponding groups. Cases
of mistargeting or misappropriation of funds--resources channeled outside the project area or for
ineligible investments--will be verified using the MIS in order for appropriate remedies to be
applied.
5.         Within the framework of the project monitoring system, the PCU and the project
Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) are responsible for supervising the
application of the guidelines from the Operational Manual in the development and
implementation of all subprojects. Using the information from the MIS, combined with field
visits and inputs from project-contracted studies and audits, the PCU and the Municipal Councils
would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify implementation problems and
accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. The MIS will also serve as a basis from which to derive Annual Operating
Plans (POAs), regulate implementation, and make necessary adjustments to the POAs and
corresponding budgets during the course of each fiscal year. The delineation of monitoring
responsibilities between the PCU and the Municipal Councils would be clearly reflected in the
Project Operational Manual.
Reporting
6.        The PCU is responsible for reporting on project progress to the Bank. Four types
of reports would be generated by the PCU and presented to the Bank:
(a)  a copy of the content of the MIS data base on diskette would be provided on a
monthly basis to the Bank's Field Office in Recife. The information from the MIS
will facilitate Bank supervision efforts and monitoring of the investment program;
(b)  an MIS-generated report which would include the updated status of project
implementation (USPI) and an updated list of subprojects with their physical,
procurement and disbursement status would be provided to the Bank's Field Office



- 68 -                         Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
in Recife at the same time that the statements of expenditure (SOEs) are sent to
Bank Headquarters. The USPI and subproject list will permit the Recife Office to
review the eligibility of subprojects presented for reimbursement;
(c)  a Semi-annual Project Progress Report, using standard formats agreed with the
Bank, would be presented by July 31 of each year of project implementation; and,
(d)  an Annual Report would be presented by January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The Annual Report would use the standard formats from the semi-
annual report but would also include a comprehensive review of: (i) the status of
the project performance indicators and the specific activities of the institutional
development program; (ii) subproject appraisal indicators, the application of the
targeting methodology and subproject investment eligibility criteria, and other
implementation guidelines included in the Operation Manual;  and (iii) other
relevant analyses and recommendations from project-contracted studies and audits
which may be applied to improve project implementation.
Evaluation Studies
7.        The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure
the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve project
methodology and implementation. The PCU would be responsible for drafting Terms of
Reference (TORs), which would form part of the Project Operational Manual, and contracting
local and other consulting services, both steps in agreement with the Bank, for the following
studies:  (a) annual physical performance reviews; (b) a Mid-Term  Review; and (c) a
comprehensive impact evaluation. These studies are described below. During the course of
project implementation, the PCU may also identify other needed evaluation studies which can
be financed under the project in agreement with the Bank.
8.        Annual Physical Performance Reviews. The objective of the Physical Performance
Review (PPR) is to evaluate the success of investments financed by the project, in terms of their
achievement of specific subproject objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of
the investments. For each subproject included in the sample, the study would focus on the
following points:  (a) the adequacy of the physical design in relation to the subproject's
objective; (b) the quality and cost of subproject execution; (c) the efficiency of procurement
procedures used; and (e) the targeting of project benefits. The PPR would provide indication
of the effectiveness of community-based procurement; compliance with and/or needed
adjustments to cost indicators and other physical/financial appraisal indicators and to the
Standard Designs included in the Operational Manual; and the quality of project investments and
the profile of distribution of project benefits. The PPR will also be an important input to the
project's Mid-Termn Review and to project Arinual Reports.
9.        The PPR will be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and included
in the Operational Manual. The first PPR will be conducted in 1997 for a sample of subprojects



- 69 -                       Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
representative of the 1996 investment program (PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P). To conduct
the PPR, the PCU would: (i) establish, with Bank agreement, the sample of subprojects to be
reviewed; (di) supply counterparts to the independent consultants contracted by the PCU to
implement the study; (iii) participate in the diagnosis and generation of appropriate
recommendations; and (iv) incorporate the recommendations into the implementation of the
project. Subsequent PPRs would be conducted in 1998, 1999 and 2000, for the exercises
corresponding to 1)97, 1998 and 1999, respectively, and would review physical performance
issues identified during the first PPR and monitor improvements. TORs for the remaining PPRs
would be agreed v ith the Bank by no later than December 31 of each previous corresponding
year.
10.       Mid-Term Review. The purpose of the Mid-Term Review is to assist the State
Governmf nt, the PCU and the Bank in the identification of positive experiences and
implementation problems and bottlenecks, in order to recommend needed modifications to
project methodology and procedures for incorporation during the second half of the project
implementation period. Among the various aspects of project implementation to be reviewed,
the Mid-Term Review would evaluate the efficiency and impact of the different subcomponents
(PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P), the effectiveness of institutional development activities, the
level of community participation, and the ability of the project to target and reach the poor. The
Mid-Term Review would be carried out in 1998 by independent consultants, under TORs and
contracting procedures agreed with the Bank. Inputs to the Mid-Term Review would include:
the semi-annual and annual reports, MIS-generated analyses and reports, results of the PPRs,
recommendations from project external and internal audit reports, and additional reviews or
studies contracted by the PCU.
11.       Project Impact Evaluation. In addition to the previously mentioned two studies,
which focus primarily on issues of subproject implementation, the project would finance a series
of three (baseline, mid-term and final) evaluations which measure the socio-economic impact of
the subproject investments. This comprehensive evaluation, based on a random sample survey
of representative subproject types, would select important socio-economic indicators, such as
employment, income, health and education, and measure the impact of subproject investments
on these indicators and consequently the impact of the project on the quality of life of the
beneficiary population. The evaluation would also relate impact back to specific aspects of the
project in order to identify those conditions or activities which have resulted in positive impacts.
The indicators would be identified and measured during the baseline evaluation in the first year
of project implementation, and monitored thereafter in the Mid-Term impact evaluation (during
the third year of implementation) and in the final evaluation at the conclusion of implementation.
The impact evaluation would be carried out by independent consultants and contracted under
TORs and procedures acceptable to the Bank. If under the new project the same patterns
continue, as under the reformulated NRDP (Annex 2), it could be expected that the productive
subprojects would result in the creation of about 93,000 new jobs and could generate net
incremental income per beneficiary family of about US$800 per year. About 65,000 families
would have increased access to safe water. These projections are, however, only illustrative and
are not targets, since the project will be entirely demand-driven, and therefore community
preferences could vary significantly.



- 70 -                         Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
Implementation Plan and Project Performance Indicators
12.       The implementation plan and project performance indicators for each project
component over the five-year implementation period are shown in Table 7.1 at the end of this
annex. Given the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these indicators are mostly
indicative targets. They can be expected to be achieved at least in the initial year of the project,
but may well develop somewhat differently in subsequent years, particularly in terms of the
proportion that each main category of subprojects (infrastructure, social or productive) would
represent out of the total investments financed by the project.



NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Project Performance Indicators and Implementation Plana,
Project Components and Activities         Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO      PYI       PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5    Total
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects Implementedi'                     Beneficiary Associations                                  670       900      1130   1130      670      4500
-Infrastructure                                                            No.                      260       340      420    420       260      1700
-Social                                                                    No.                       60        80       110    110       60       420
-Productive                                                                No.                      350       480      600    600       350      2380
Beneficiaries
-Total3'                                                                 Families                 20        27        34        34       20       135
('000)
-Total                                                                   People                  100       135       170       170      100       675
('000)
-women as % of productive                                                   %                     30        30        30        30       30        30
subproject beneficiaries
Community Associations'                             Beneficiary
Associations           No. (cum.)                335       785      1350      1915    2250       2250
Municipalities Assisted                                PCU                  No. (cum.)               116       176       176       176      176        176
Municipal Councils
-FUMAC                                                                 No. (cum.)                 68       114       114       114      114       114
-FUMAC-P                                                               No. (cum.)                 20        34        34        34       34        34
B. Institutional DeveloDment
Preparation of annual program of technical        PCU, Municipal
assistance and training                               Councils
(i) PCU                                                                     No.                      I        I         I         1        1         5
(ii) Municipal Councils                                                     No.                     88       148       148       148      148       680
No. of workshops/seminars for
- Beneficiaries 5/                                                                               116        60         --       --       --       176
- Project Municipal Councils 6                                                                    18        12         --       --       --        30
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P)
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only F                                                                4         3                  --                  7



Project Components and Activities        Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO      PYI       PY2      PY3       PY4      PY5    Total
No. of courses Z" offered to:
- Beneficiary associations                                                no.                    34       79        135      192      225       665
- Project Municipal Councils                                              no.                    88       148       148      148      148       680
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P) 2'
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only 2'                                      no.                    20       34        34        34       34       156
- PCU staff                                                               no.                     2         2        2         2        2        10
C. Proiect Administration.
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Special Account                                        PCU                                  x
Publicity Campaign                                     PCU
-Presentation to Bank                                                                   x
-Campaign Launched                                                                               x                  xx
Operational Manual                                    PCU                     No.           x         x
-Preparation                                                                                               x         x        x         x
-Review and Adjustments (with Bank                                                                                                                            >
approval)
Standard Designs
-Preparation                                      PCU                    No.            6        15        --       --        -                  21
-Review and Updating                                                                                       x         x        x         x
Annual Operating Plans (POAs)
-Preparation of POA for FUMAC-P                FUMAC-P
Councils                                       20        34        34        34       34       156
-Consolidation and Preparation                    PCU                                             I         I        I         I        1         5
of Project POA
Monitoring Reports (sent to Bank)
-Monthly Disbursement                             PCU                    No.                     12       12        12        12       12        60
Summaries and updating of MIS
database
-Annual/Semi-annual Reports                       PCU                    No.                     2         2         2        2        2         10
-External Audits                                  PCU                    No.                      I        1         1         1        1         5        ;3
-I 



Project Components and Activities        Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO      PYI       PY2       PY3      PY4      PY5    Total
Evaluation Studies
-Physical Performance Reviews                     PCU                     No.                               1         1        1        1         4
-Mid-Term Review                                  PCU                     No.
-Impact Evaluation                                PCU                     No.
(i) Baseline                                                                                   I
(ii) Mid-Term                                                                                                   1
(iii) Final
1.  Because of the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these targets are indicative and will be re-assessed during the Mid-Term Review.
2.  Based on average costs of approved subprojects in each category in Ceari.
3.  Estimated on the basis of 40 beneficiary families per subproject.
4.  Assumes an average of 2 subprojects per association (based on NRDP-Ceara experience).
5.  At least I initial workshop for all communities within each project municipality.
6.  1 workshop for every 5 new Municipal Councils.
7.  Specialized skills training.
8.  1 basic training course initially and at least I specialized skills training course per year subsequently for groups of 10 associations.
9.  1 basic training course initially and at least I specialized skills training course per year subsequently for each Municipal Council.
-J



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Project Component                                      Totals Including Contingencies
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       Total
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                                              10.3       13.9        17.2       17.2       10.3       68.9                4
2. FUMAC-P                                             3.1        4.1         5.2        5.2        3.1       20.7
3. PAC                                                 2.6        3.4         4.3        4.3        2.6       17.2
......................................................................................................................... ..........................................
Sub-Total                                                 16.0       21.4       26.7       26.7        16.0      106.8
B. Institutional Development                               1.4        1.1        0.9         0.7        0.5        4.6
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation       0.5        0.6        0.9        0.7         0.7        3.4
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                       17.9       23.1       28.5       28.1        17.2      114.8
Physical Contingencies                                 0.1        0.1         0.1        0.2        0.2        0.7
Price Contingencies                                    0.0        0.1         0.1        0.3        0.7        1.2      x
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        18.0       23.3       28.7       28.6        18.1      116.7



- 75 -                              Annex 8
Table 8.2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                           Amounts to be Financed by
State
Government/
Total Cost   IBRD       Municipalities    BeneficiariesO
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC
Sub-projects                           68.9        40.5          21.5              6.9
Technical Assistance and Training        1.5        1.5           0.0              0.0
Sub-total                                 70.4        42.0          21.5              6.9
2. FUMAC-P
Sub-projects                           20.7        12.2           6.4              2.1
Technical Assistance and Training        1.0        1.0           0.0              0.0
.............................................................................................................................................
Sub-total                                 21.7        13.2           6.4              2.1
3. PAC
Sub-projects                           17.2        10.0           5.5              1.7
Technical Assistance and Training        1.0        1.0           0.0              0.0
Sub-total                                 18.2        11.0           5.5              1.7
B. Institutional Development                   1.1         1.1           0.0             0.0
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Monitoring          3.4         1.5           1.9             0.0
and Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                          114.8        68.8          35.3            10.7
Physical Contingencies                     0.7         0.5           0.2              0.0
Price Contingencies                        1.2         0.7           0.5              0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTk'                         116.7        70.0          36.0            10.7
a/ Minimum contribution.
b/ Including about US$4.7 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



- 76 -                             Annex 8
Table 8.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                        Item and % of Expenditures                       Total Amount
(US$ Million)
I.        Community subprojects
A. FUMAC                                                            36.5
B. FUMAC-P                                                          11.0
C. PAC                                                               9.0
59% of expenditures
II.        Institutional Development including Technical Assistance, Training
and Evaluation Studies                                               5.4
100% of expenditures
Ill.       Project Administration and Monitoring System                          1.1
20% of expenditures
IV.        Unallocated                                                           7.0
TOTAL                                                               70.0



- 77 -                               Annex 8
Table 8.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank           Quarter              Disbursement         Cumulative Disbursement    Balance
Fiscal          Ending                  During                                           of
Year                                   Quarter            Amount    % of Total         Loan
1996       March 31, 1996                                   --           --           70.0
June 30, 1996                   9.0a'           9.0          12.9          61.0
1997       Sept. 30, 1996                   2.6            11.6          16.6          58.4
Dec. 31, 1996                   2.7            14.3         20.4           55.7
March 31, 1997                  2.8            17.1          24.4          52.9
June 30, 1997                    2.9           20.0          28.6          50.0
1998       SepL. 30, 1997                   3.3            23.3         33.3          46.7
Dec. 31, 1997                   3.8            27.1         38.7           42.9
March 31, 1998                  3.9            31.0         44.3           39.0
June 30, 1998                   4.0            35.0          50.0          35.0
1999       Sept. 30, 1998                   4.0            39.0         55.7          31.0
Dec. 31, 1998                   4.2            43.2         61.7          26.8
March 31, 1999                  4.2            47.4         67.7           22.6
June 30, 1999                    3.6           51.0          72.9          19.0
2000        Sept. 30, 1999                  3.6            54.6          78.0          15.4
Dec. 31, 1999                   3.6            58.2          83.1          11.8
March 31, 2000                  3.5            61.7         88.1            8.3
June 30, 2000                    3.3           65.0          92.9           5.0
2001        Sept. 30, 2000                  3.0            68.0          97.1           2.0
Dec. 31, 2000                   2.0            70.0         100.0           0.0
a/ Including the authorized allocation of US$5.0 million into the Special Account.



- 78 -                           Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Project Operational Manual (Outline)
The Operational Manual would have the following table of contents:
I.    Introductory remarks
II.    The Organization of the Manual
Ill.   The Project
A.    Objectives
B.    Strategy
C.    Targets
D.    Project Area
E.    Components
F.    Eligibility criteria
1.    Compliance with poverty targeting methodology
2.    Consistency with standard technical designs
3.    Consistency with financial parameters
4.    Socio-economic evaluation
5.    Environmental Assessment
G.    Operational guidelines
1.    Project coordination
2.     FUMAC
3.    FUMAC-P
4.     PAC
5.    The subproject cycle: identification, preparation, submission, evaluation,
implementation, conclusion, technical assistance, operation and
maintenance
6.    Procurement
7.     Cost-sharing matrix
8.     Fund release and statements of expenditure
9.    Operational Checks and Balances
10.   Monitoring and evaluation



-79-                             Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Annexes:
A.    Standard subproject designs
B.    Standard agreements
C.    Standard forms (for proposal submission, ata de recebimento, etc.)
D.    Guidelines fo- FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
E.    Management Information System (MIS) and reporting
F.    Flow of funds and statements of expenditure
G.    Project administration
H.    Technical assistance, training and studies



- 80 -                        Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
Supervision Plan
1.        The principal responsibility for supervision of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
will rest with the State Government through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), and with the
Bank through its Recife Office in conjunction with staff from Headquarters. The Municipal
Councils will also supervise the execution of community subprojects within their respective
municipalities. International agencies, such as IICA or FAO, are expected to play an important
role in performing supervision activities which require specific expertise. Selected NGOs may
also be contracted by the State or the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils to assist with supervision
activities and evaluation of the status of community organization and mobilization.
2.        Supervision will be performed at two levels: at the project level, where the PCU
will monitor global trends across all project municipalities; and, at the subproject level, where
the PCU field staff and the project Municipal Councils will monitor the performance of
individual subprojects. The PCU will set up a team to supervise the subproject cycle on a
continuous basis. This team will consist of staff from the PCU Headquarters and the 12
Regional Offices (Coordenadorias) located in the Project Area. At the project level, the State's
responsibilities for project supervision are: (i) to focus on global project implementation and
administration; and, (ii) to review activities of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils.
Supervision of project Municipal Councils by the PCU will focus on: the Councils' composition,
to ensure satisfactory beneficiary representation; the frequency and openness of Councils'
meetings and their effectiveness in providing assistance to the beneficiary communities. In
addition to these points, the PCU's supervision of the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, in
particular, will focus on the criteria applied to screen and prioritize subproject proposals and the
administrative and financial arrangements made by the Councils to effectively control and release
project funds to the community associations.
3.        At the subproject level, the field staff of the PCU, together with the corresponding
Municipal Councils, will carry out the following subproject supervision tasks: (i) verification
of the status and quality of subproject implementation (PAC by the PCU and FUMAC and
FUMAC-P by corresponding Municipal Councils); (ii) assessment of community participation
in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects; (iii) evaluation of the extent to
which communities are organized to undertake the operation and maintenance of the investments;
and (iv) determination of whether communities satisfy the targeting criteria.  Information
collected during supervision, including indicators of subproject implementation performance and
identification of principal bottlenecks or problems, will be incorporated into the standard data
sheets completed by the PCU for each subproject (Annex 7).



- 81 -                        Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
4.        Based on the information collected at the project and subproject levels, the PCU will
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual and annual reports on the overall financial and
physical status of project implementation and performance. The PCU will also provide the
Bank's Recife Office with copies of all SOEs and reimbursement applications when these are
submitted to Bank Headquarters (Annex 7).  In addition, the PCU will present the Annual
Operating Plan (POA) and corresponding budget for each subsequent fiscal year of
implementation to the Bank for its review and comment.
5.        The Bank will carry out at least two regular supervision missions per year. Regular
supervision will entail: (i) a discussion of project implementation problems identified by the
PCU; (ii) field visits to a random sample of community subprojects; and (iii) a review of the
performance of all project components, and particularly an intensive assessment of the FUMAC-
P pilot program, to address problems and make appropriate recommendations. In addition,
based on frequent communication with the PCU, the Recife Office will conduct short supervision
missions to address problems which require prompt action. Also, in view of the diversity of
community subprojects, consultants of different expertise would be contracted to provide
occasional input and advice to Bank missions. Two full supervision reports will be issued
annually, as well as Back-to-Office Reports for each short supervision mission. It is estimated
that about 60 staff-weeks will be required for project supervision, or about 12 staff-weeks
annually during the five years of project implementation.
6.        The schedule of project supervision is as follows:
(a)  by July 31 and January 31 of each year, presentation of semi-annual and annual
reports from the PCU to the Bank;
(b)  by May and November of each year, full Bank supervision missions completed;
(c)  by October 30 of each year, presentation of the POA for the subsequent year to the
Bank for review and comment by November 15.



- 82-                         Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - CEARA
List of Documents Available in Project Files
1.   Anuario Estatistico do Ceara: 1993, IPLANCE.
2.   Boletim Conjuntural--Nordeste do Brasil: 1994, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste (SUDENE)/ Funda,co Joaquim Nabuco (FUNDAJ), 1994.
3.   Brazil: NRDP and a Possible Follow-Up Program, draft, FAO/CP, February 1995.
4.   Ceara em Nuimeros: 1994, IPLANCE.
5.   Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos as Caracteristicas da
Popula,o e dos Domicilios--Brasil, Nuimero 1, IBGE, 1991.
6.   Censo Demogrifico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos as Caracteristicas da
Populaco e dos Domicilios--Ceara, Numero 11, IBGE, 1991.
7.   Desenvolvimento no Ceara:  Ana&lise dos Indicadores Sociais Mais Recentes,
IPLANCE, March 1994 (Versao Preliminar).
8.   Evolucao do PIB  do Ceara em  1993:  Analise dos Resultados e Aspectos
Metodol6gicos, IPLANCE, 1994.
9.   0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, three volumes, 1993.
10.  Municipios Brasileiros--Crian,as e suas Condi,ces de Sobrevivencia, UNICEF/IBGE,
1994.
11.  Perfil da Renda Interna e Per Capita dos Municipios Cearenses em 1985 e 1991,
Fundacao Instituto de Planejamento do Ceara (IPLANCE), November 1992 (Resultados
Preliminares).
12.  Projeto de Desenvolvimento Municipal Sustentavel, ARIDAS, October 1994.
13.  Safety Nets and Social Funds to Alleviate Poverty: Performance Problems and Policy
Options, Issues Note, UNCTAD, October 29, 1993.
14.  A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP-PAPP), Conrad Kottak, February 7, 1994 (Draft).



Al'                    40'                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~~~~39'  ECUL 
B   R  A   Z   I L                        2' COLMBI  *\ -
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT   \C.ARA
CEARA.
0      20      I0       60      80      IT,-                                                             B   R  A       Z   I L.,
KILOMETERS                                                    PRLUr
A    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)I                                                      o,L, A
ILLALLOLL4Y         SBOLINARLES
If                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~363
p.b.~~~~~~~~~~~~     .~IL  
C    E    Aodkno'IR    A
d7/
GI &oood
P.d,.~ ~ ~ ~~~
Q
0- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
00'. ~       ~             ~           ~            __
LII            ~~AREA EXCIUCLED FROM  IHE PROJECT
7                                                                                                                   3        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL OFFICES
To .1 p-aMolS                                                                                  '                           0L  AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS
anlono             d N.t.CLIMAATIC ZONES
(  Aloop.   doCo'o.  C,oIo                   -~~~~~~~~~                                 HUMID
II,., F,,.,., I,,,L~~~~~0..,I,,I  1~~  --  -  *~~~~'  I,                               MOLULL. ~SEMI ARID
0Ll,,'',IOL,L,,,ILOLIIl'.OIIL,                              '..  PoIooo~~~        0,010 CILIA                     0         SETECIRD CITIES AND TOLWNJS
IlL, Al,,, 1,1 LL,o.L I0.LL,IL                                          Io,do,o                *~~~"j                            MAIN ROADS
    STATE CAFIIAL
.. .........  %                                       NA        BU      O                  *J             ..STATLRBOUNDARIES
dl       ,                        ALL                              I~ lOLL,.,    36                                           JR                                             L 









IMAGING
Report No:       14-95 BR
Type: SAR



