Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23397
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39 180)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$70.0 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF CEARA
FOR A
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
12/21/2001
ESSD
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.00 = US$ 0.44
US$ 1.00 = R$2.23
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCR               Program of Support to Small Rural Commnunities (original NRDP)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CEAC               Client Attention Centers
DCT                Technical Coordination Directorate (Project Technical Unit)
EMATERCE          Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency, Ceara
FAO/CP             World BanklFAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC              Municipal Community Schemes
FUMAC-P            Pilot Municipal Community Funds
IDACE                    Agrarian Development Institute of Ceara
IICA               Inter.-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
INCRA              National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform
IRR                Internal Rate of Return
MIS                Management Information System
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PAC                State Comnmunity Schemes
POA                Annual Operating Plan
PRONAF             National Program to Strengthen Family Agriculture
R-NRDP             Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
SDR                Secretariat of Rural Development
SEBRAE             Support Service for Small and Medium Firms
SEPLAN             State Secretariat for Planning, Science and Technology
SOE                Statements of Expenditure (Prestaao de Contas)
TU                 Technical Unit
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader:   Luis 0. Coirolo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
Rural Poverty Alleviation - Ceara
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P038884                                       Project Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Ceara
Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo                              TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 2], 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Ceara              L/C/TFNumber: CPL-39180
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/09/95                                Effective:                     04/22/96
Appraisal:  04/15/95                                  MTR: 09/30/98              03/08/99
Approval:  06/29/95                                Closing: 12/31/2000           06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  State of Ceara/Initially State Secretariat of Planning and from 1997, Secretariat
for Rural Development (SDR). Implementing agency is Technical Coordination
Directorate of SDR.
Other Partners:  Municipal Councils and Community Associations
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                               Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Mark Cackler                               Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:   Luis 0. Coirolo                           Luis 0. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:   Anna F. Roumani; supported by
project Task Manager (Joao
Barbosa de Lucena) and Brazil
Northeast Team
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP), as stated in the Loan Agreement
were to "assist the Borrower's efforts to alleviate rural poverty in the Municipalities by: (a)
providing basic social and economic infrastructure and employment- and income-generating
opportunities; (b) supporting rural communities in planning and implementing their own
subprojects; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization
at the community and municipal levels." The project was part of the Bank's Program of Targeted
Interventions. Accurate poverty targeting and the direct, reliable transfer of funds to the poorest
communities, combined with promoting decentralized decision-making to State, municipal and
local levels were important complementary objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three main components: (a) Community Subprojects (US$106.8 million or 93%
of total base cost), supporting small scale investments of up to US$50,000, selected,
implemented, operated and maintained by the beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional
Development (US$4.6 million, 4% of total base cost), providing implementing entities and
communities with technical assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve
implementation of the project; and (c Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$3.4 million, 3% of total base cost), financing project coordination and activities to generate
feedback on project performance and impact. These components represented an appropriate set
of actions to achieve project objectives and to benefit directly about 675,000 poor rural people
(about 27% of the target population in Ceara). Table 1 shows project components with cost at
appraisal and actual expenditure at Closing. Project cost was lower than estimated at appraisal
due mainly to the effects of the increase in Bank-cost sharing from 60% to 75% (see 3.4) and
devaluation of the Brazilian Real/US Dollar exchange rate starting from 1999.
Table 1. Comparison of Cost at Appraisal and Actual Expenditures
Rating             Component              Total Cost Est.   Expenditures at
at Appraisal      Closing
(US$ mill.)     (US$ mill.)
S         A. Community Subprojects          106.8 of which:    92.9 of which:
S            FUMAC                              68.9             59.6
S            FUMAC-P                             20.7            1.2
S            PAC                                17.2             32.1
S         B. Institutional Development          4.6              3.9
S         C. Project Administration, Monitoring  3.4             1.1
and Evaluation
Physical and price contingencies:      1.9
Total:      116.7            97.9
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised. However, the Loan Agreement was amended as follows:
(i) Bank's share increased, at the request of the State Government, from 60% to 75%, in line with
financing provisions of other participating RPAP states (effective May 14, 1998); (ii) new
sub-category of expenditures created for field supervision (US$700,000), financed 50% by Bank;
(iii) some US$8.9 million of resources were reallocated from FUMAC/FUMAC-P to PAC
(January, 2001); and (iv) Closing Date extended from December 31, 2000 to June 30, 2001
(January, 2001).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of this project pre-dated the QAG. Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory by this ICR.
In both conceptual and design terms, the project was the culmination of several decades of rural
development efforts in Northeast Brazil, the LAC region more generally and elsewhere. These
experiences are by now well-documented (see documents listed in Annex 7). The project featured
participatory, demand-driven mechanisms for the development of poor rural communities,
successfully piloted under the preceding reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program
(R-NRDP, 1993-1997).
Project objectives were appropriate in view of: (i) the severity of poverty and deprivation
affecting a high proportion of rural people in Ceara, the fourth largest state in the Northeast with
100% of its land area part of the "drought polygon", where agriculture is dominated by
subsistence farming of low productivity, and where some 66% of rural families live below the
official poverty line, earning one minimum wage or less per month (about US$70); (ii) the State
Government's declared strategy to combat rural poverty through economic and social
development, providing basic infrastructure to support productive activities and improve
standards of living, based on decentralization and participation; (iii) the success, observed and
measured, of the community-based mechanisms, tested at full-scale under the previous,
Bank-financed R-NRDP, in improving the well-being and social capital of the rural poor in Ceara
and other Northeast states; (iv) consistency with the Brazil CAS (1993), which called, inter alia,
for proper targeting and delivery of basic services to the poor, to reduce poverty and inequity; and
(v) demonstrated commitment of the State and exceptionally strong demand for project
investments from rural communities.
The approach represented a marked shift from several decades of rural development programs in
the Northeast which, while piloting important sector initiatives, had only limited impact on rural
poverty. Delivery mechanisms relied exclusively on Federal and state bureaucracies, counterpart
funding was erratic and barely one-third of project funds reached intended beneficiaries. The new
approach - piloted as a small component of the NRDP and converted, by reformulation of the
NRDP in 1993, to the template for poverty projects with greater impact, cost-effectiveness and
sustainability -- has five guiding principles: (i) place money for implementing approved
subprojects directly into the hands of the beneficiary communities; (ii) decentralize
decision-making and involve local authorities as participants;(iii) maintain transparent
decision-making at all levels; (iv) stress community participation in planning, fmancing, executing,
operating and maintaining the investments; and (v) use simple, explicit and monitorable poverty
- 3 -



targeting mechanisms. The approach is administratively simple, dispensing with intermediary
agencies and the bureaucratic/coordination stresses of its predecessors, thus ensuring that the vast
majority of project resources (about 93%) are used for direct subproject investment, with the
remainder focusing mainly on providing technical assistance and training for those same
communities.
The methodology employs three mechanisms of increasing decentralization to screen, approve and
implement community requests for financing - PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Under PAC
(State Community Schemes), rural communities submit investment proposals directly to the State
Technical Unit (TU), which screens and approves them, releasing funds to the beneficiary
associations; with FUMAC (Municipal Community Schemes) decision-making on investment
proposals is delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, representative bodies
comprising 80% community members and local civil society and 20% municipal authorities.
Councils discuss, establish priorities and approve community proposals. Reviewed by the STU
for consistency with the Operational Manual, proposals are then funded, with disbursement
directly to the community association bank account. Councils monitor and supervise subproject
execution. FUMAC-P (Pilot Municipal Community Funds) is a more decentralized variant of
FUMAC piloted under the RPAP. With an annual budget envelope established by the TU on the
basis of clear criteria (rural population, poverty levels, previous year's performance), Councils
submit an Annual Operating Plan (POA) for TU review. Approval releases budget to the Council
which is responsible for managing its distribution to beneficiary associations and assisting with
subproject implementation. The State TU (SDR/DCT in Ceara) concentrates on monitoring,
technical assistance and supervision.
Design of the Ceara project adhered to lessons from the R-NRDP, expanded successfully-piloted
features and introduced further innovations and improvements. The project mainstreamed the
FUMAC Municipal Councils, albeit within a different council model, (see 4.2) and introduced the
pilot municipal funds component (FUMAC-P) giving greater control over budget resources to
selected, high-performing FUMAC Councils; systematized beneficiary targeting and transparency
with incentives/penalties based on performance; introduced an improved MIS (with data sent
regularly to the Bank via internet) to support proper targeting, monitoring and evaluation, and
project management; introduced an Operational Manual with technical and financial parameters;
and funded technical assistance to support mobilization and organization, build capacity and
encourage participation of NGOs and other local entities. This was further reinforced by intensive
supervision, standardized subproject design and cost parameters, publicity/information campaigns,
cost-sharing requirements for the state government and beneficiaries and best practice exchanges
with other states and between participating entities (FUMAC Councils, community associations).
Experience in Brazil and elsewhere showed that the main sources of risk for rural poverty projects
were irregular funding, technical weaknesses/over-design and inadequate supervision,
mistargeting of resources and overly centralized decision-making. The Ceara project reflected
prudent measures to avoid or reduce those risks, which became standard practice in all
participating states, and have proven effective in practice.
- 4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is rated Satisfactory.
Objective - Providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and
income-generating opportunities:
The project met this objective, financing some 3,060 small-scale investments in basic rural
infrastructure, productive and social facilities, improving the lives of about 178,000 beneficiary
families or some 890,000 people, as well as the local economy throughout rural Ceara.
Investments have responded to beneficiaries' needs, provided basic social services, and established
the conditions for improving livelihoods through income-generating activities. Infrastructure
investments are the great majority (77%) of completed subprojects in Ceara, most notably rural
electrification and water supply which together account for about 70% of the total. As in other
participating states, this reflects communities' wish to obtain the "basics" before turning to
productive and social investments. Investments in agricultural mechanization (communal tractors
and implements) were also significant, with 326 subprojects benefiting about 19,000 families.
Rural electrification investments in Ceara are a good example of community-level capacity to
prepare and ensure/oversee the execution of needed public works, with 100% of these subprojects
executed by private fimns contracted by the community associations, who supervise installation
and pay the contractors with resources transferred to the association bank account by the
Technical Unit. Installation of electrification for some 91,000 families in over 1500 communities
has provided power to streets, homes, schools, village shops and small-scale processing units at
an average cost of about US$425 per family. Among their many benefits, these subprojects
provide access to information, means of communication, and to household appliances including
refrigeration; generate employment and incomes from operation of small business and
agro-industries ; and permit evening school for adults and children.
Investments in water supply, where the source may be surface or groundwater and the
infrastructure, tube/artesian wells or dams, benefited 58,000 families. Besides the clear benefits
for a drought-prone region, such investments facilitate women's work at home, reduce the
incidence of water-borne diseases to the benefit of the entire family, and reduce the healthcare
burden on municipalities. Assured water supply also stimulates irrigated agricultural production
which was found by the Mid-term Review (MTR) to have already occurred in about 25% of all
communities benefiting from water supply investments at that time. The MTR mission also
estimated that subproject benefits (time savings, disease reduction and cost of water trucks during
drought) amounted to about R$5.5 million annually for the 160 water supply subprojects already
financed and implemented.
Finally, communal tractors can significantly expand area cultivated by small farmers, ensure timely
preparation of land to exploit scarce rainfall, improve quality of soil preparation, and facilitate
cultivation and post-harvest activities, all of which contribute to better incomes.
- 5-



Objective - Supporting rural community groups in planning and implementing their own
subprojects:
At Closing, about 2,600 community associations had participated in the project and a large
proportion had received technical assistance and training. SDR/DCT trained the FUMAC
Councils (and by extension the communities whose representatives sit on the councils) in the
selection and prioritization of community needs and their translation into sound investment
proposals. The training methodology has been both client-driven and participatory. The project's
institutional development component has also funded TA for communities to prepare proposals.
Development of standardized subproject designs (projetos padrio) has helped associations with
technical aspects and construction of the most representative subprojects, e.g., manioc mills,
simple water supply systems and community house improvement. This has had many benefits for
the communities: promoted the participation of poorer communities by simplifying the preparation
and evaluation of subprojects, fostered greater competition and better quality in execution of
works, reduced subproject cost and communities' dependence on private firms, and facilitated
procurement. At MTR, some 96% of sampled subprojects were deemed good or excellent in
design quality. Finally, of equal importance, community-based research shows that the
mobilization, organization, training and technical assistance associated with the subproject
investment cycle fostered the gradual, substantial and measurable accumulation of social capital in
poor rural communities.
Objective - Providing a safety netfor the ruralpoor:
Together with other social programs funded by the State and Federal governments, project
investments have contributed to building a safety net to reduce the effects of governments' fiscal
adjustment efforts. Many of the RPAP subprojects complement traditional public investments in
rural infrastructure and are frequently executed by the community associations themselves or by
private firms contracted by them (30% and 70% respectively in the Ceara project). Unit costs
were compared for five types of subprojects (small-scale community dam, concrete bridge, rural
electrification, manioc mill and sewing workshop). Using secondary cost data as a benchmark for
comparison, unit costs for more than 50% of the components for these types of subprojects were
found to be lower, notably so in the case of the manioc mill and sewing workshop, where
significant labor cost savings were realized. The RPAP projects, targeting the poorest and
providing productive, infrastructure and social investment funds through matching grants to
targeted communities - and given the projects' decentralized and participatory methodology and
operation - represent a successful safety net program. These projects, under the R-NRDP and
subsequent RPAP, became the single most important source of funding for protection of the poor
in rural areas of the Northeast.
Objective - Leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and municipal levels:
The RPAP has been one of the few programs in Brazil which has successfully leveraged revenue
mobilization at the community and municipal levels. Beneficiary cost-sharing (family labor, cash
and/or materials) under the Ceara project's matching grant feature totaled US$10.6 million by
end-Project, or about 11.5% of the costs of all subprojects financed through Closing, and about
-6 -



11% of total project cost. Financial contributions by municipalities - not required under the
Project but encouraged by SDRADCT - were modest at about US$0.5 million. However,
municipalities frequently contributed to the overall project effort in the form of logistical support
to the FUMAC Councils (equipment, premises, transportation for meetings), time spent by
municipal staff participating in Council meetings, and other contributions to community
mobilization and technical assistance efforts.
4.2 Outputts by components:
A. Community Subprojects (US$106.8 million, 93% of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory
This component financed small-scale investments selected, implemented, operated and maintained
by the beneficiaries. Investments of up to US$50,000 each were financed through matching grants
(public grants "matched" with community contribution), with legally-constituted community
associations identifying their priorities and committing to their operation and maintenance through
their labor or user fees. The project was expected to finance 4,500 community-managed
subprojects over a 5-year period - reduced to 3,700 following the increase in the Bank's financing
share to 75% -- including basic infrastructure, productive and social investments, and benefit
some 135,000 families organized into 2,250 associations in 176 municipalities. An estimated 114
FUMAC and 34 FUMAC-P Councils were to be established. These targets were largely
indicative due to the demand-driven, flexible nature of the project.
In just over five years, the Ceara RPAP achieved the following: (i) implemented 3,057 subprojects
(83% of the changed target); (ii) financed at least one subproject for 178,000 beneficiary families
or some 890,000 people (132% of target) organized into about 2,600 community associations
(121%) in 177 municipalities (100%); (iii) established 137 FUMAC and 5 FUMAC-P Councils
(120% and 15% respectively). About 12% of associations were repeat participants, having
implemented two or more subprojects. These results are very satisfactory given a series of
disruptive events affecting the project in the first half, including changes in the Technical Unit and
its regional management along with short-term counterpart funding difficulties (see 7.4-7.6). The
strong commitment of the State Government and of the Governor himself, as well as the excellent
performance of SDR/DCT in recouping delays, are responsible for the impressive pick-up of the
project through Closing.
The physical implementation review conducted by SDR/DCT for its own MTR evaluation, and
sample subprojects assessed in the field during regular supervision missions, found a very high
proportion of subprojects sampled to have satisfactory implementation of good quality, and with
materials used considered to be good or excellent from the technical and quality standpoint of
materials, scale and operation. About 25% had been implemented by the beneficiaries themselves
and 75% by private firms contracted by the communities. Any involvement of the state electricity
agency was limited to technical aspects of electrification subprojects. Contrary to appraisal
forecasts (which were largely indicative in a demand-led process), some 77% of investments were
basic infrastructure, 22% were productive and 1% social. Community demand reflected the need
for the "basics" before embarking on productive and other investments. These categories of
infrastructure tend to have a broader beneficiary base and be higher cost - the result is fewer
- 7 -



investments but greater numbers of beneficiaries. Field observation showed that access to
operating subprojects was generally inclusive - covering residents outside the community limits
and non-members of associations as well as formal members of both.
About two-thirds of all subprojects in the first two years (1996/97), were implemented under
PAC. This shifted sharply in 1998 when about 75% of subprojects came under the rubric of
FUMAC in a period of rapid expansion. This surge in FUMAC-based investments occurred
during a period of intense rural infrastructure investment when close to 90% of approvals were
for infrastructure, and four out of every five were rural electrification. At Closing, of the 2048
subprojects executed under FUMAC and FUMAC-P (67% of the total), about 1,500 (73%) were
rural electrification.
The process of establishing FUMAC Councils in Ceara evolved within the context of the state's
broader municipal development strategy promoted by SDR/DCT. The state adopted a strategy of
sustainable development based on a "participatory management" model which translated into the
creation of municipal and regional forums with wide representation of socio-economic groups -
the Municipal Councils for Sustainable Development (CMDS) - of which there were already 160
by MTR. Initially, it was envisaged that the TU would establish commissions (called Sao Jose
Community Committees) under the CMDSs, functioning as FUMAC Councils. In practice, few
of these were created and subproject approvals devolved to the CMDSs themselves. The Bank
and SDR/DCT agreed that this fact should be recognized and that the project would operate with
the CMDSs as long as their composition conformed to project guidelines (i.e. with a dominant
cohort of rural communities and civil society). There were some 142 such Councils operating at
Closing (137 FUMAC and 5 FUMAC-P).
Average subproject cost at Closing was about US$31,000, well below the US$50,000 ceiling
established at appraisal. At mid-term, the average was US$33,500, having increased from about
US$20,000 in 1996, to US$38,000 in 1997 but declining steadily thereafter. The sharp rise from
1996 to 1997 was due mainly to a surge in agricultural mechanization subprojects (communal
tractors) which averaged around US$40,000. By 1998 rural electrification dominated the
portfolio, with an average cost of US$32,500. The per capita cost of rural electrification
investments in CearA was found, as a rule, to be about 50% lower than similar subprojects
undertaken by the public sector. Though less common, water supply subprojects showed a similar
cost-saving trend.
Targeting was effective under the Ceara project; beneficiaries generally belonged to the intended
profile, the poorest rural communities. After the MTR, a concerted effort was made to expand
and deepen coverage of more remote, disorganized communities which had yet to participate.
FUMAC Councils assumed the role of studying municipal communities to detenmine poverty
ranking, and hence priority for mobilization, organization and investment, and of mobilization and
information dissemination activities to bring the poorest into the process. At Closing, some 177
municipalities had benefited. Women's participation was high, directly as beneficiaries of specific
types of investments (sewing workshops, creches, laundries) and more generally (electricity and
water supply). Experience with the FUMAC Councils demonstrates that communities themselves
are the best-equipped/informed to target effectively. Field observations in Ceara (and other NE
- 8 -



states) showed that Councils were already encouraging communities with several investments and
which had improved their relative socio-economic standing, to seek alternative financing for other
priorities. Councils were reducing priority ranking of such communities and/or excluding their
requests from consideration, in favor of communities yet to participate.
Land reform pilot component: The Ceari project successfully piloted (starting March 1997) an
innovative community-based land reform component, leading to a Bank-financed Pilot Land
Reform Project in five Northeast states (Loan 4147-BR, closing June 30, 2002) and its follow-on,
the Land-based Poverty Alleviation Project in 14 states (Loan 7037-BR, effective October
2001). Under the pilot component, families financed land purchases over 15 years with five years'
grace, using State Government funds at the government-established long-term interest rate
(TJLP) plus one percent. The complementary on-farm investments were Bank-financed under the
RPAP. Some 44 community associations with a total 688 families acquired a total of 23,377
hectares of land at a cost per family of R$6,083 and a per hectare cost of R$179. With average
complementary investments of R$5,574/family, total per family costs were R$11,657. The
positive outcome in terms of cost-effectiveness, administrative efficiency and beneficiary response
prompted the Federal Government to request the first-ever free-standing land reform project
(Loan 4147-BR).
B. Institutional Development (US$4.6 million, 4% of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory
This component provided implementing entities and communities with technical assistance and
training for capacity-building and to improve project execution. Four categories of TA were
carried out as per project design: introductory seminars on the Operational Manual, the roles of
FUMAC/FUMAC-P Councils and related topics; specialized skills training for SDR/DCT and the
Councils in key issues such as environmental assessment, monitoring and financial administration;
technical assistance and training for participating communities in mobilization, organization,
subproject preparation, operation and maintenance and specialized advice; and finally, workshops
and seminars for Councils and associations to exchange experiences. Some 14,454 families and
involved entities (Councils, NGOs, CEACs) benefited from 384 training events provided by
SEBRAE, IDACE, EMATERCE and SDR/DCT (see list of abbreviations). Of special note,
SDR/DCT included in all its training modules, an environmental education segment designed to
foster a culture of environmental protection in the communities.
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.4 million, 3% of total base
cost) Rated Satisfactory
This component performed as expected, supporting project coordination and activities to
assess/measure project performance and impact; incremental operating costs (excluding salaries)
of SDRIDCT to enhance supervision and strengthen project operations; the project MIS,
evaluation studies and the state's initial and follow-up project publicity programs to raise
awareness of project rules and methodology.
-9-



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected on a larger
scale, from the RPAP including Ceara. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ
significantly in type from the R-NRDP. A similar analysis has therefore been done of the
program-wide investments under the RPAP for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the
financial viability of productive subprojects. An assessment is also provided of the fiscal impact of
the project in Ceara. See below and Annex 3.
The CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery to the poorest can work
cost-effectively in the Northeast, supported by several basic design features: (i) demand-driven
subproject priority-setting and selection within a democratic forum, the Councils; (ii) standard
technical designs and cost parameters, ensuring the use of least-cost models and providing
established patterns of initiating and completing subprojects; and (iii) delegating subproject
implementation directly to community associations, which generates cost savings relative to
similar works implemented by public agencies. The contracting procedures set down in the
Operational Manual require direct contracting through competitive processes on all subprojects;
associations solicit three price quotations and choose the least cost. Analysis of a random sample
of subprojects including ten categories representing about 80% of types financed, found RPAP
costs to be from 30-50% cheaper than subprojects of similar quality, implemented by the state. In
the six states survey, including Bahia, the majority of subprojects were rated technically
satisfactory and of good quality. Operation and maintenance has been good, with associations
charging appropriate user fees. A general evaluation in 2000 found that 89% of a sample of
8,123 R-NRDP (1995) and RPAP (1997/98) subprojects, had remained fuilly operational. There
was no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive or social
investments.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Internal Economic Rates of Return (IRR)
IRRs were estimated for the most common types of productive subprojects. These all exceed
30%, giving an indication of the overall profitability of the productive subprojects normally
financed under the RPAP. In addition to these positive impacts, benefits are largely concentrated
in the beneficiary communities. Analyses were done assuming constant benefits over a ten-year
subproject life.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) and investments are financially sustainable, based on
analysis of 12 selected, typical productive subprojects. While beneficiaries receive a one-time
investment matching grant from the RPAP, it is financially sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees is generally adequate to cover O&M and replacement of the original investment
- 1 0 -



long before the end of its useful economic life. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of
return some of them being high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all
cases and less than 3.5 years in half the cases. IRRs compare favorably with the real cost of
borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is about 11-12%.
Testing financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out on the
illustrative models which determined that: some subprojects - generally those highly dependent on
purchased inputs (fish farm, dairy plant, bakery) -- are more sensitive than others to changing
market conditions. In all cases, the worst scenario is one where prices decrease.
Fiscal Impact
Evaluations indicate that subproject investments make a significant fiscal contribution through
cost savings to state and municipal governments. In Ceara, the RPAP project is estimated to have
saved in a year of "normal" rainfall, over R$950,000 by eliminating -- through investments in
water supply -- the need for water trucks to supply communities. In a year of severe drought
(1998), this amount more than doubled. Meanwhile, provision of better quality, more reliable
water reduced the public health costs to municipal governments. Cost savings also derive from
the community-driven design of the project; subprojects implemented by communities, directly or
contracted, were 30-50% lower than prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type
and quality. Finally, in terms of revenue generation, the RPAP Ceara and other states showed that
there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became
available, significantly increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.* The MTR estimated
incremental ICMS revenue from the most common appliances to be about R$2.2 million in Ceara.
* ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where it is collected.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a participatory, demand-oriented mechanism, the Ceara project, like its peers in other states,
involved many actors and stakeholders. Evaluations, including a community participation study in
Ceara and five other RPAP states which analyzed social capital formation, have assessed
institutional impact on the community associations, Municipal Councils and Technical Units
including SDR/DCT, concluding as follows:
Community Associations: Community associations created under the program have generally
performed well. Members have typically met their collective responsibilities and the associations
have benefited from the efforts of mayors, the technical units and civil society entities to
disseminate information about the program and create the conditions under which communities
could benefit from it. Membership of associations has proven to be inclusive with women
increasingly and successfully assuming leadership roles. Importantly, the benefits of subprojects
have tended to reach non-members as well as members. Studies show that technical assistance is
critical for the success and sustainability of associations at their fornation/organizational stage,
throughout the investment cycle and longer-term.
Municipal Councils: As forums for democratic discussion, the project Municipal Councils have
increased transparency, reduced political interference, improved targeting, and contributed to
- 11 -



social capital formation in rural communities. There is little doubt remaining that the Councils are
much more effective than PAC in inducing social and cultural change. FUMAC-P Councils
perforned even better than FUMAC Councils, validating the benefits of deeper decentralization
of program delivery. Having an annual budget envelope fosters even more realistic
priority-setting, and this in turn increases communities' capacity within the Council, to identify,
plan and implement subprojects. The Municipal Councils are becoming an integral part of local
government planning, steadily overcoming the risk of being short-lived parallel structures by their
evolving fusion with local government. They are increasingly recognized by local populations and
their elected officials as valid representatives of communities and civil society, and as partners of
local administrations in fostering and sustaining municipal development.*
*Across the six states evaluated/studied, some 30% of Councils were making decisions on priorities for municipal resources, not only project-related
allocations.
Technical Unit: The TU administers the project, acts as vehicle for communication with the Bank
and State Government, and as principal liaison with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils and in
PAC municipalities, with the community associations. The state-supported TU in Ceari has
reasonable administrative and financial autonomy as an administrative unit of SDR. The unit
suffered significant disruption in the first two years of execution, with responsibility for the
project transferred from SEPLAN to the Secretariat for Rural Development (SDR) with a
substantial contraction in its staff and organization; phasing out of all 12 of its regional offices
which were replaced by 82 Centros de Atendimento aos Clientes (CEACs) belonging to the
newly-restructured state agricultural extension agency (EMATER-CE). Performance by the
restructured EMATER-CE/CEACs in providing intensified services to beneficiary associations
was initially weak but improved steadily up to Closing, gaining expertise in the project and
establishing good relationships in the field.
Social Capital: Fostering social capital in rural municipalities and communities has been a
watershed achievement of the RPAP projects, including Ceara. As participatory, transparent and
representative forums for setting priorities and making decisions, the municipal councils have
reduced political interference and clientelism; created partnerships between communities,
municipal councils and municipal governments; given communities a voice in public resource
allocation; fostered citizenship through greater awareness of social responsibilities; and
strengthened communities' and municipal governments' capacity to select, set priorities for and
implement, investment decisions. Social capital has expanded through the evolution of successive
rural poverty programs and through the increasing decentralization of the mechanisms themselves
- from PAC to FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Gains in social capital at the municipal and community
level are evidenced by the significant number of municipal councils which have moved beyond
subproject decision-making to be participatory venues for municipal planning and the allocation of
non-project resources; and community associations which are leveraging social capital acquired
under the program to obtain other, previously unavailable, investrnent resources.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of government or the executing agency was the severe
drought of the first two years, which affected a broad area of the Northeast. On the one hand, the
- 12 -



result was generalized productivity losses and reduced success of certain productive subprojects,
e.g., manioc mills and coffee processing plants idle due to lack of raw material, and tractors
unusable due to overall planting and harvesting conditions. On the other hand, the impact of large
numbers of project-financed small-scale community dams and wells in alleviating the effects of
drought - part of a deliberate strategy agreed with affected states to use the project to best
advantage in this period - was dramatic. Beneficiaries were able to avoid the deaths of thousands
of head of livestock and other small animals, and the cost to the state and municipalities of water
trucks was greatly reduced.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several factors subject to government control have already been described, namely: the transfer of
the project from SEPLAN to SDRtDCT; government-mandated slowdown of the project during
an election period and effects on the project of the subsequent settling-in period of new municipal
administrations. Counterpart funding shortages further exacerbated these difficulties. The
application of the state's development strategy (installation of CMDS councils rather than the
Bank's FUMAC model) also complicated project execution until solutions were found in
collaboration with the Bank. All of these factors complicated project implementation in the initial
years.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A number of factors within the responsibility/control of SDR/DCT were detected by supervision
and MTR missions. SDR/DCT, working with the Bank Task Manager, resolved them in a
satisfactory manner (see 7.2).
*The design of the RPAP and its successor the RPRP, ensures that no single bottleneck, short of counterpart funding deficits, which have not generally
been a factor, and possibly leadership/managerial tunover in TUs, is likely to cause serious damage/disruption to implementation and impact, and as
large numbers of communities and municipalities develop economically and socially through subproject investments satisfying critical needs, the TUs
become increasingly less important.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost was US$97.9 million compared to the estimated US$116.7 million due
principally to the effects of the increased share of Bank financing from 60% to 75%, and to
progressive devaluation of the RealUS Dollar exchange rate starting in 1999. An amount of
US$14.75 million was reallocated in October 2000, with US$8.0 million for FUMAC and
US$6.75 million to PAC (See Annex 2). Costs varied from appraisal estimates, with FUMAC-P
US$19.5 million lower, FUMAC US$9.3 million below estimate and PAC exceeding estirnates by
US$14.9 million; Institutional Development and Project Administration were about US$2.8
million above and W,S$2.3 million below estimate, respectively. The Loan of US$70.0 million was
fully disbursed.
Procurement:
The Project methodology for providing goods, works and services is innovative and worked well.
Acquisitions under the community subproject component were handled directly by community
associations in 100% of cases - by direct community implementation or through community
- 13-



contracting of private fimns for this purpose -- according to subprojects sampled by a physical
implementation review. Costs have generally been lower under direct acquisition. Procurement
was subject to at least three price quotations in the vast majority of cases. SDR/DCT handled
procurement of consulting services to provide technical assistance to the communities, and to
support its own responsibilities, with satisfactory performance and results. The use of standard
designs and unit costs, required by the Operational Manual, and providing associations with the
procedures for acquisition of goods, works and services, has simplified procurement, reduced the
incidence of over-sized subprojects and made supervision and monitoring easier.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely
Institutional: Analysis shows that by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local level
organizations and municipal entities, the Ceara RPAP successfully supported decentralized
allocation of resources and social capital formation in rural areas. The potential for linking the
FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils to municipal planning and budgeting processes and programs,
as well as alternative credit and financial services is promising, and has in fact already started.
The likely outcome of this process is the graduation of certain communities which have
accumulated sufficient assets and organizational capacity to obtain mainstream financing and other
services, under a strategy which includes facilitation assistance from various sources including the
Bank.*
*Such a strategy is built into the design of the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project in CeaTa (Loan 4626-BR).
Physical: The involvement of beneficiaries in all stages of the investment cycle, combined with
cost-sharing requirements (up to 25%) was shown to build ownership and contributed to ensuring
proper operation and maintenance of subprojects. In addition, the democratic processes
characteristic of FUMAC and FUMAC-P resulted in prudent priority-setting and selection of
subprojects by beneficiaries, increasing long-term sustainability. Only subproject proposals with
realistic, community-funded operation and maintenance plans - a project requirement set down in
the Operational Manual and for which there are performance incentives -- were approved and
financed. SDR/DCT monitored performance during subproject execution either directly or
through EMATERCE. Direct monitoring by the Councils themselves was evolving but was not
as intense as in other states.
Financial: The financial sustainability of investment subprojects was confirmed by analysis and
field assessment. Studies done in 1995 (under R-NRDP) and 1997/98 (RPAP) of 8,000
subprojects across all participating states, and during the Ceara MTR (1999), found that just
under 90% remained fully operational to date. Analysis of productive subprojects has repeatedly
shown that cost recovery through user fees paid by beneficiary associations adequately covers
both operation and maintenance, and replacement of the original investment long before the end
of its useful economic life.
- 14 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special transition arrangements to regular operations. Subprojects are executed,
released to the community association (which technically and legally owns the investment) and
become operational under pre-established rules/guidelines and procedures for this phase. Further,
a new Rural Poverty Reduction Project for Ceara was approved by the Board on June 26, 2001
and is awaiting effectiveness. The project introduces further improvements and innovations based
on the successes and lessons of the RPRP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's perfonnance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.
The Bank recognized that the R-NRDP represented a successful shift away from the traditional
rural development model, and that it merited follow-up, based on the lessons learned. The new
model generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and positive multiplier effects,
and had the capacity to mobilize/leverage additional funds from the communities. Well over 90%
of disbursements were reaching targeted beneficiaries, and the diversion of funds for non-intended
purposes was sharply reduced. The participatory approach increased community organization and
empowerment, increased transparency and demonstrated that poor rural communities could
influence the allocation and use of resources to alleviate poverty. Investments were generally
cost-effective, of satisfactory quality, and had positive impact on family well-being, income and
employment.
The new project was based on joint evaluation of the R-NRDP by the Brazilian Government and
the Bank. Design was calibrated to the lessons of the R-NRDP and the results of initial
preparation missions, which sought to further improve design through deeper decentralization,
refined targeting, more powerful monitoring and information/evaluation, systematic cost-sharing,
introduction of standardized subproject designs and cost parameters and an improved Operational
Manual. The preparation process was marked by openness to further innovation, which has
become a hallmark of the program.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. About 90 staff weeks were expended on supervision,
compared to the 75 estimated at appraisal. Project execution benefited from stable Bank task
management for the duration and regular supervision missions. The advantages of the Bank's
Recife Office in terms of proximity, experienced Task Managers and administrative personnel,
long-standing relationship with the State Government and knowledge of the CDD mechanisms
and their evolution in the Northeast, are clear. And by delegating supervision activities to this
local office (including procurement reviews' and field visits) Bank support is calibrated to the
decentralized structure of the Northeast program. The Bank defined and addressed
implementation problems as they arose, in cooperation initially with SEPLAN, and then with
SDR/DCT. Supervision missions were preceded by a detailed advisory document showing
- 15-



updated performance indicators from the MIS, highlighting any apparent issues and including a
suggested random sample of municipalities/communities for field visits. PSRs were prepared at
Headquarters on the basis of Aide Memoires, MIS data and complementary information,
essentially freeing the Recife-based Task Manager to focus on the project. The project was
correctly rated Satisfactory for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress throughout.
The principal supervision issues addressed by missions included: (i) In the first year of
effectiveness (1996/97) release of project resources for approved community subprojects was
suspended at the request of the State Government during the municipal election season (October
1996). Subsequently, the transition to newly-elected municipal administrations exacerbated the
initial slowdown by delaying incorporation of municipalities into the FUMAC program.
Counterpart funding was reduced, creating further difficulties. Bank supervision staff agreed with
State officials on an effective six-month Action Plan focusing on increased availability of funds,
and this was successfully carried out; (ii) Institutional difficulties affected the project in its first
two years. Transfer of coordination responsibility to SDR, as well as restructuring of the TU and
EMATERCE (the latter to assume field supervision through the CEACs), also slowed the project.
However, the beneficial effects of a simplified Technical Unit, personal support of the State
Governor and other senior state officials/agencies in securing counterpart funds, and very good
performance by SDR/DCT resulted in the project's strong recovery; and (iii) The prospect of El
Nino-induced drought focused the attention of state officials and the Bank on how the project
could help, resulting in an agreed strategy emphasizing labor-intensive subprojects to counter
unemployment pressures, and water supply investments.
Mid-term Review.
The Mid-term Review was conducted in March 1999 by an experienced and diverse group of
specialists. The MTR analyzed the project based on: the State's own project mid-term evaluation
(required under the Loan Agreement) comprising a Physical Implementation Review and an
Impact Evaluation, complemented by SR/DCT's periodic progress reports; a community
participation assessment by a Bank/FAO consultant familiar with the project's target population
and delivery mechanisms since the R-NRDP; the joint Bank/FAO MTR/supervision mission which
met with SDR/DCT managers and technicians and interviewed numerous beneficiaries and local
leaders during extensive field visits; and data from the project Management Information System.
The team found project implementation to be on target and performance satisfactory overall,
adherence to the project Operational Manual was good, the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
had been substantially achieved, evaluation data confirmed the state's solid performance, and
disbursements were well ahead of schedule.
As a result of agreements reached with and executed by SDR/DCT, project implementation was
further improved as follows:
(a) A program of information exchange seminars for CEAC personnel was conducted to build
awareness concerning all aspects of the RPAP in Ceara and to assist the CEACs in identifying
areas where they could provide services required by the communities;
- 16 -



(b) While the CMDS shared many of the characteristics of the FUMAC Councils, SDR/DCT took
on the task of training at least 135 such Councils, working with the CEACs, as recommended by
the MTR mission, to more fully comply with the FUMAC model;
(c) SDR/DCT established five FUMAC-P Councils, screening CMDS councils for suitability,
providing an annual budget envelope, and evaluating them yearly to assess whether their
performance merited their remaining as FUMAC-P or reverting to FUMAC;
(d) Attention was re-focused by SDR/DCT on communities which had not yet participated and a
process was initiated of considering a certain cohort of more advanced communities, for
graduation;
(e) Communities were required to present O&M plans with their proposals, including for
collection of user fees, receive training in subproject management, and provide verification that
they were capable of operating and maintaining their investment; and
(f) Special provisions were designed to improve the feasibility of productive subprojects were
introduced, including requiring that approval be contingent on analysis of subproject size in
relation to community needs and raw materials availability. Plans for procurement and marketing
would also be required up front.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rated Satisfactory
The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of eight projects received a LAC Region Performance
Award and a Social Development Award for Excellence in Project Quality in 2000, while the
project's community cost-sharing requirements were cited as best practice by a Bank procurement
audit team for fostering cost-effective and efficient procurement.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation.
Project preparation was straightforward and productive owing to the support of the State
authorities -- especially the Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN, then lead agency for the project) --
the experience and commitment of the Technical Unit, and broad recognition that the R-NRDP
had successfully changed the way rural development was done, with positive results in terms of
cost-effectiveness, timeliness and poverty impact on the ground.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
While the State Government's formal direct role in the project was to provide counterpart funds,
the Sate Governor followed the project with interest, taking decisions concerning any serious
problems, visiting the field and opening/participating in seminars. Several state agencies provided
technical assistance for subproject preparation and execution, mainly rural electrification and
water supply, and for development and marketing purposes. Counterpart funding encountered
difficulties in the first two years but was fully restored through the commitment and efforts of
SDR and the Secretariat of Finance. Also, as mentioned earlier, Government slowed the project
- 17 -



in the electoral year of 1996, to avoid any potential use of the project for political ends. The 82
CEACs significantly improved their overall performance, providing technical assistance of good
quality, developing a solid understanding of the project and participating in all events organized
by the TU for the Councils and communities.
Finally, the State's performance was noteworthy for integrating the project through partnerships
with other federal, state and municipal programs/projects. An important example was the
cooperation with INCRA (National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform) through
which that institution provided the counterpart funds (in lieu of the state) for RPAP subproj ects
implemented on its land settlements. This resulted in some 205 subprojects benefiting over
10,600 land reform families. Other examples are the federal PRONAF (National Program to
Strengthen Family Agriculture) credit program, as well as on-land investment activities under the
Pilot Land Reform Project (Loan 4147-BR), the Federal Government's umbrella poverty program
Comunidade Solidaria, credit programs of the Bank of the Northeast and other state and
municipal programs.*
*Integration with other programs, especially through the FUMAC Councils, is a design feature ofthe new Rural Poverty Reduction Projects.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The initial years were difficult for Technical Unit personnel given the unit's transfer from
SEPLAN to SDR in 1997, which, combined with counterpart funding problems and other events
(see above), seriously affected progress. The performance by SDR/DCT in reviving the project to
where it could meet and even exceed key targets, was an impressive performance. Special
mention is merited for SDR/DCT's diverse and successful training programs for the FUMAC
Councils, community associations and leaders, CEACs, NGOs and other entities involved in the
project, as well as its own technicians; and for its team-based, comprehensive field supervision of
subprojects.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons of this project reinforce and validate those from its predecessor, the R-NRDP, and
have influenced design of the new RPRP (Loan 4626-BR). Main lessons are:*
CDD projects, by assigning greater responsibility to local organizations and municipal
governments, can successfully support decentralized resource allocation and create social capital
in poor rural areas.
The equitable graduation of communities who have accumulated sufficient assets and
organizational capacity to access mainstream financing and other services, is expected to be (and
already is) an important product of this more integrated approach to FUMAC Council
roles/activities.
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation to the state and
local levels including community organizations, ensures administrative efficiency and superior
- 18-



results. Community-driven approaches can reduce bureaucracy and administrative obstacles, and
reinforce accountability for project performance by eliminating the "distance" between
decision-makers and beneficiaries, who have at many points in the subproject cycle, become
synonymous.
Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects
ensures that investments meet genuine community needs, leads to cost savings, and increases
community "ownership" and sustainability of investments.
Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria foster
transparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project
resources reach the poorest.
Supervision, pluralistic and involving local entities closest to the communities, remains an
indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. FUMAC Councils have the capacity to
assume greater responsibility for supervision, with appropriate training, TA and information
technology. The Bank's Recife Office remains vital for project coordination, supervision,
procurement reviews and field visits, with task managers dedicated exclusively to the Northeast
region. In this manner, Bank support meshes with the decentralized structure of the Northeast
program.
Environmental protection checklists are an important, beneficial practice even though the small
scale of investments virtually eliminates significant environmental effects in most cases. Standard
subproject designs have special importance where environmental concerns are relevant, while
environmental TA and training to FUMAC Councils and community groups, facilitated by
in-house environmental expertise in the Technical Unit, builds broad awareness. In Ceara,
SDR/DCT included in all its training modules, an environmental education segment designed to
foster a culture of environmental protection in the communities.
Systematic monitoring and evaluation supports project analysis, generates feedback including to
improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool. The RPAP
projects generally, showed that further revision and strengthening of the MIS would be beneficial,
introducing real time monitoring of the full project cycle and a more comprehensive impact
evaluation component to measure income, welfare and social capital gains.
Dissemination of "best practices" can speed learning and reward innovation. Expanded
exchanges between states, municipalities and communities, and by more frequent training
seminars and workshops, support this process.
Standardized subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs -periodically reviewed,
updated and expanded -- are valuable tools for simplifying subproject preparation and evaluation,
improving subproject quality, facilitating procurement and reducing cost, preventing over-design
and promoting the participation of poorer communities.
Technical assistance - of diverse type and delivery -- is an essential ingredient for projects of this
type but especially for productive subprojects to maximize impact. The appointment of "technical
advisors" (or "change agents" as they are known in Sergipe) recruited by each FUMAC Council
- 19-



and trained by the TU to manage and coordinate local technical and training needs, as initiated by
CAR under the RPAP, has tangible benefits. Meaningful involvement of civil society (NGOs and
other groups) in providing TA is also important.
Checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, are essential to ensure proper
targeting and use of resources and to boost and institutionalize transparency. This project
confirmed the practical utility of rules and procedures -- including guidelines for performance
incentives and penalties, periodically reviewed and updated - set down in a Project Operational
Manual.
PAC should be minimized, particularly since the FUMAC and FUMAC-P sub-components have
proven advantages with respect to targeting, sustainability and social capital formation in poor
rural communities.
Productive subprojects, which are likely to assume greater prominence under the new project,
should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision criteria
and linked to a graduation strategy which facilitates beneficiary communities' access to formal
credit. Rural communities need a better understanding of the nature and potential of productive
subprojects.
Municipal Councils can play a broader role in local planning, by promoting integration
between local governments and project Municipal Councils, and providing information to
Councils on other programs and alternative sources of grant and credit financing. There is great
potential for linking FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils to local municipal planning and budgeting
processes and programs as well as alternative credit and financial services. Carefully nurtured
with the right mix of technical assistance, information and funding support, and bolstered by clear
and transparent rules of operation, this democratic forum could become one of the most valuable
and durable institutions for rural development in the Northeast.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided the following comments on the Bank's draft ICR:
- 20 -



SM 4tWERNa"0W OM'TAO DO CRA
1ADU) rENV LVTh4E1%1=OLR-RA
SEChx,  ': ..E  DS> 
DmI3 TORAA1.C2CA
OficidlierlzNo b3o0110-Lt           FonaIu  1 de d.zsmbro de2001
Dr IlAl (t Cdoit
Sector Lead Speciai*
Ewrmwata1ly md Soe4alyS.*           ra *'lcpm*
Latin Amorica and u"bbfle  Resion
Subject: Comnxwvioa thnt lnnmt t, n C4xnpU6*n RApen
Loan 391 +-BR - Rz4. PwA   A UetioanPrtOct
Dca S;
At yuqLutl. wjh&ve revwed 1be b   a*iozd Pro.ct tRVor,% wcAd
by b Sulas of Cat IdLoan 391P-BR
We wourd like to     out                  twis, vtb tw comwm of thk
Repot whf*k ia out clpt Iytf  S    s Pt .ti purfornu   in tho &te
D*ator ts DVSESIR
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
No Log Frame Matrix was prepared for this project.
Project Components and Activities                Unit            Appraisal         Actual
Estimate
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects implemented                            No.                      4550            3057
- Infrastructure                                   No.                      1700            2354
- Social                                           No.                      420              673
- Productive                                       No.                      2380              30
Beneficiaries
- Total                                            Families '000             135             178
- Total                                            People '000)             675              890
Women as % of productive subproject beneficiaries  %                         30               30
Community associations                             No. (cum)                2250             2601
Municipalities assisted                            No. (cum)                 176             177
Municipal Councils
-FUMAC                                             No. (cum)                 114             137
- FUMAC-P                                          No. (cum)                 34               5
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of TA and training
- Technical Unit                                   No.                        5               5
- Municipal Councils                               No.                       680             280
No. workshops/seminars for:
- Beneficiaries                                    No.                       176             140
- Project Municipal Councils (FUMAC/FUMAC-P)       No.                       30              160
- FUMAC-P Councils only                            No.                        7               10
No. courses offered to:
- Beneficiary associations                         No.                       665             140
- Munic. Councils (FUMAC/FUMAC-P)                  No.                       680             160
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only                  No.                       156              10
- PCU staff                                        No.                       10               37
C. Project Admin., Monitoring, Evaluation
Standard designs                                   No.                       21               21
Annual operating plans (POA)
- FUMAC-P                                           No.                      156              70
- PCU (project POA)                                No.                        5               5
Monitoring Reports (to Bank):
- Monthly disbursement, MIS updates                 No.                      60               40
- Annual, semi-annual reports                       No.                      10               5
- External audits (project accounts)               No.                        5               5
Evaluation studies
- Physical performance reviews                     No.                        4               4
- Mid-term Review                                  No.                        I 1
- Impact evaluation                                No.
(i) Baseline                                                                  1               0
(ii) Mid-term                                                                 1                1
(iii) Final                                                                   I                I
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comp nent (US$ million equivalent)
Project Component        Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of
US$ million            US$ million            Appraisal
Community subprojects:     106.8 of which           92.9 of which             87
- FUMAC                         68.9                    59.6                  87
- FUMAC-P                      20.7                     1.2                   6
- PAC                           17.2                   32.1                   187
Institutional                   4.6                     3.9                   85
Development
Project Administration,         3.4                     1.1                   32
Monitoring, Evaluation
Physical/Price                  1.9                      --                   --
Contingencies
Total:                         116.7                   97.9                   84
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal/ActuaLWUS$ million equivalent)
Category                     Estimate at Appraisal           Actual at Closing
NCB       Other  Total        NCB      Other   Total
Cost                          Cost
Community Subprojects
Minor Works                 __      42.8**  42.8 (25.3)            66.8     120.8
(under US$50,000)                   (25.3)                        (n/a)    (78.5)
Goods and Materials (Under          42.8**     42.8       _      0.1 (n/a)   25.0
US$50,000)                          (25.3)    (25.3)     _                  (17.2)
Minor Works                 6.6       --       6.6                 7.5
(Over US$50,000)           (3.9)*             (3.9)                (n/a)
Minor Works                           4.0     4.0***                --
(Under US$100,000)                   (2.4)     (2.4)
Goods and Materials                  10.6    10.6***               18.5
(Over US$50,000)                     (6.3)     (6.3)
Consulting Services                6.0 (6.0)    6.0              3.9 (n/a)  7.0 (7.0)
(6.0)
Project Administration             3.9 (0.8)    3.9              L 1.I (n/a)  5.2 (1.0)
(0.8)
TOTAL                       6.6    110.1      116.7               97.9      97.9
(3.9)   (66.1)    (70.0)              (n/a)    (n/a)
*Amounts in parenthesis to be financed by the Bank ** Direct shopping ***Shopping
- 23 -



Project Financing by Sources and Components (Appraisal/Latest Est. US$ mill. equiv.)
Estimate at Appraisal                Actual at Closing
Total  Bank State Govt/ Benefic  Total Bank   State Govtl  Benefic.
Component         Cost         Municipal.          Cost           Municipal.
A. Community            106.8  62.7      33.4      10.7   92.9  65.9         16.4     10.6
Subprojects
1. FUMAC
Subprojects              68.9   40.5     21.5       6.9    59.6   44.7       8.4       6.5
Tech Assistance/ Training    1.5    1.5   0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal                 70.4   42.0     21.5       6.9    59.6   44.7       8.4        6.5
2. FUMAC-P
Subprojects              20.7   12.2     6.4        2.1    1.2    0.8        0.3        0.1
Tech Assistance/Training  1.0    1.0     0.0        0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal                 21.7   13.2     6.4        2.1    1.2    0.8        0.3        0.1
3. PACI
Subprojects              17.2   10.0     5.5        1.7    32.1   20.4       7.7        4.0
Tech Assistance/Training  1.0    1.0      0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal                 18.2   11.0     5.5        1.7    32.1   20.4       7.7         4.0
B.    Institutional Devt   1.1    1. 1    0.0       0.0    3.9    3.9        0.0        0.0
Tech Assistance/Training
C. Project Administration,  3.4    1.5    1.9       0.0    1.1    0.2        0.9        0.0
Monitoring, Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST   114.8  68.8        35.3      10.7   97.9   70.0        17.3       10.6
Physical Contingencies   0.7    0.5      0.2        0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies      1.2    0.7       0.5       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0        0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST    116.7  70.0        36.0    _ 10.7   97.9   70.0        17.3       10.6
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR did not include an economnic or financial rate of return for the project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected, on a larger
scale, from the RPAP, including Ceara. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ
significantly in type from the R-NRDP. A similar analysis has therefore been done of the
program-wide investments (Ceara and all other seven states of Northeast Brazil that were part of
the RPAP program) for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the financial viability of
productive subprojects. An assessment is also provided on the fiscal impact of the project in
Ceara.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
About 77% of subproject investments under the RPAP were for infrastructure, while social
subprojects comprised less than 3 percent. Most infrastructure subprojects fell under the rubric of
core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments) which, numerous studies
demonstrate, provide benefits that justify their universal provision.* The experience of the
R-NRDP and RPAP projects has shown that the CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service
delivery targeted to the poorest can work in a cost effective manner in the Brazilian Northeast.
Several aspects of project design help to ensure delivery of the least-cost, best alternative:
(i)    Standard technical designs (projetos padrao) for the most common types of infrastructure
and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensure that community
associations use least-cost models for subproject implementation; and they decrease search and
information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. Field analysis of these RPAP investments demonstrates that their
technical quality is good;
(i)    Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates
cost savings, relative to comparable quality works implemented by public sector agencies.
Contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct, competitive
contracting for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid.
(i)    Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates
cost savings, relative to comparable quality works irnplemented by public sector agencies.
Contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct, competitive
contracting for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid.
*World Bank: Public Expenditures for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and Improving Services. Report No. 18700-BR.
December 1998.
These characteristics have enhanced subproject cost-effectiveness. Analysis of a random sample of
subprojects (including ten categories which collectively represent some 80% of subproject types
financed) found that costs for RPAP infrastructure and social investments were 30-50% cheaper
than projects of similar quality, financed by the state. Evaluation of the RPAP in Ceari, Bahia,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe examined the quality of the materials used,
- 25 -



overall finish and of operation of the investments. In all states surveyed, the majority of
subprojects were found to be technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed
their satisfaction with subproject quality and regarded more than 90% of all investments as being
satisfactory overall.
Experience also shows that the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects
has been good, with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain
the investments. A general evaluation study of the Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000,
reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects funded by the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997/98,
finding that 7,240 of them, or 89%, were fully operational in March 2000. Furthermore, the same
study found no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive and social
subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and 239 social community subprojects,
89%, 87% and 88%, respectively, were fully operational at the time of the study. Bank missions
to other Northeast states confirmed this finding.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects
analyzed (Table A). Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments
are financially sustainable (Table B). Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time
investmnent grant from the RPAP, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees by the average beneficiary association is generally adequate to cover both O&M
and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful economic life.
For illustrative purposes, 12 productive subprojects representing some of the most typical
productive investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selected for financial analysis.
Activity models were constructed for them, based on field interviews with subproject managers
conducted during evaluation, supervision and project preparation missions, and consultation of
standard project designs (projetospadrao) prepared by the State Technical Units. The subprojects
analyzed are as follows:
Manioc Mill: Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment
required to process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to
and from the plant. The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The
plant operates around 100 days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately
30 tons offarinha and 4.8 tons of starch employing one person to operate the plant during those
days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15 percent of output. Association members normally
pay a smaller fee than non-members.
Communal Tractor: Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain sheller, grader and other equipment,
including a garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor
works for members and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport
services. It works approximately 1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members
are smaller than prices charged by private tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The
subproject employs a full-time driver/operator hired by the association.
- 26 -



Small Irrigation 1. Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to
irrigate a total of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the
introduction of a new technical package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two
high-priced Brazilian vegetables with good local markets), which replace the existing traditional
cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.
Small Irrigation 2: Sprinkler irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land
with water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the
irrigated land is used for traditional subsistence crops (corn and beans), although a cash crop
(watermelon) is planted on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.
Goat Production. Production of goats by a group of about 30 farmers, with an investment
consisting of 120 breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are
constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or
self-consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or self-consumption) of milk.
Animal Feed Production Equipment: Grinding machine and complementary equipment to
produce animal feed from crop residuals, together with a small structure to shelter the machine.
Farmers pay a small amount (R$ 1.50) per hour to use the machine. From these payments,
electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works
approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are supplied
by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is freely supplied by association leaders
Honey Production: Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture
and honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous
apiculture experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8
sites, are maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of
honey which is sold wholesale.
Local Bakery. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking
facilities to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day.
Employs a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding
communities.
Fish Farn: Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 Tilapia fish each. Ponds
are rotated, with 4 ponds being continuously used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond
in a year, with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One
person is employed half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman.
Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.
- 27 -



Cashew Processing Plant. Middle-size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200
tons of cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds,
which are then sold wholesale. Plant operates for ten months of the year, employing around 6
operators. Cashew nuts are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with 1 to
5 ha of cashew trees each.
Jam Production Plant. Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and
other inputs are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to
retailers. Employs a plant manager and three permanent workers.
Small Dairy Plant. Middle-size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling
chamber and other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 liters per day. The plant is
supplied by around 400 cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to some
60 dairy farmers within a radius of 6 km. Employs a plant manager and 4 permanent workers. The
results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table A.
Table A: Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity     Investment  IRR      NPV       Net      Years to
(R$)     (%)  (at 10%)  Annual   Recover
Income      the
(R$)     Capital
Invested
Manioc Mill                 18,450     15.8    5,377    3,970       5.6
Communal Tractor             39,752     37.6   35,141    18,075      2.4
Small Irrigation 1           44,054     >50   327,366   90,781       0,9
Small Irrigation 2           28,311    28.1   23,573    15,238       3.3
Goat Production              43,346     16.5   16,925    12,180      5.8
Feed Production Equipment    6,730      15.4   1,831     1,149       5.9
Honey Production             26,102     16.8   9,112     7,252       5.5
Local Bakery                 43,352    35.0   56,868    29,575       2.8
Fish Farm                    46,104     15.6   13,739    13,162      5.6
Cashew Processing Plant      64,964     >50   288,790   72,195       1.1
Jam Production Plant         41,123    41.7   69,062    35,008       2.4
Small Dairy Plant           62,583     19.7   30,223    34,591      4.7
The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical
for RPAP productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some
of them being very high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and
less than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net incremental annual income or value-added generated by
the subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149 for the feed preparation equipment to
R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average value of around
R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000.* The IRRs of the subprojects
compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is of the
order of 11 to 12 percent.** The IRRs also compare favorably with the interest rates that would
have to be paid in concessionary rural credit programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste and
- 28 -



Banco do Brasil. Only two subprojects --the cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation
subprojects -- would be able to pay the high interest rates charged by commercial banks for term
lending.
Simple averages
** Measured by the difference between the SELIC rate and inflation rate.
Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample:
(a) Communal processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and
well-known to farmers, meet community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in
the community. The manioc mill, communal tractor, feed production equipment and goat
production subprojects fall into this category. The results summarized in Table A illustrate that
these types of investments can be profitable. Their financial returns, however, are not high
because benefits are passed on to farmers in the form of moderate user fees or because the activity
in question is intrinsically not very profitable as in the case of small-scale goat rearing. These
subprojects have the advantage of building on activities familiar to farmers, and have therefore
little training requirements and simple management needs. They also have low marketing
requirements since the community itself is the market for the service, and the outputs produced
with the help of the service normally have regular marketing channels or are self-consumed;
(b) Subprojects promoting off- or on-farm productive activities which generate full time
employment and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community. The
small irrigation subprojects and the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery
subprojects belong in this category. New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold
in markets outside the community, exemplified by the honey production, fish farming and jam
production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source of income and employment to some
members of the community; however, these subprojects tend to be demanding in terms of
marketing and managerial skills.* These subprojects are normally part of industries where the
entry cost is low and competition high, leaving small operating margins. The lack of working
capital and the difficulty to establish a brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the
best-paying markets are two common constraints;
* Other popular subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production of various artisanal goods such as embroideries.
Local bakeries, which are popular subprojects in some states, have few training and marketing
requirements, and are similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater to
local need and therefore have a local market, although in this case the market is for a final good
rather than a productive service, but they only offer employment and income to a reduced number
of community members. The irrigation subprojects illustrate well that, whenever possible,
irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and an improved technical package is a
profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment in the semi-arid areas of
the Brazilian Northeast, and can be successfully operated by local farmers on a very small scale.
The contrast between the very high returns to investment of the first subproject, where new cash
crops and technology were introduced alongside irrigation, and the moderately high ones of the
second subproject, highlights the impact of profiting from the availability of irrigation water by
introducing wider changes in the cropping system;
- 29 -



(iii) Processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investnent, which operate on a scale
bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting also farmers outside
the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and cashew
processing plants exemplify this type of subproject.
To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out of the
illustrative activity models. Three scenarios were considered. In the first, production was
assumed to be 20% below the base case, because of, say, marketing problems. A 20% percent
decrease in output caused a 20% decrease in revenue, but this was, to some extent, matched by a
reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs. In the second scenario, the price
decreased 20% and revenue also decreased by the same proportion without any compensating
element. Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20% in the price of vanrable costs was
assumed. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table B.
Table B: Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Subproject             Base Case      Scenario 1     Scenario 2      Scenario 3
- 20% output   - 20% price    + 20% costs
Manioc Mill
IRR (%)                           15.8          11.5             10.1          14.4
NPV (R$)                         5,377          1,385            132           4,124
Communal Tractor
IRR (%)                          37.6           17.2             < 0           16.8
NPV (R$)                        35,141          10,836          -23,602       10,221
Small Irrigation I
IRR (%)                           >50           >50              39.4          >50
NPV (R$)                        327,366        163,375          77,015        154,646
Small Irrigation 2
IRR (%)                          28.1            7.4             4.6           13.0
NPV (R$)                        23,573          -2,965          -6,057         3,546
Goat Production
IRR (%)                           16.5          12.8             11.5          15.2
NPV (R$)                         16,925         7,097           3,847         13,395
Feed Production Equipment
IRR (%)                           15.4          112              10.2          14.4
NPV (R$)                         1,831           397              62           1,496
Honey Production
IRR (%)                          16.8           10.0             7.2           11.6
NPV (R$)                         9.112           42             -3,635         2,162
Local Bakery
IRR (%)                          35.0           20.1             < 0           15.8
NPV (R$)                        56,868         22,451           -21,559       12,859
Fish Farm
IRR (%)                           15.6           9.3             < 0            < 0
NPV (R$)                         13,739         -1,732         -39,886        -26,024
Cashew Processing Plant
IRR (%)                           >50           > 50             48.3           >50
NPV (R$)                        288,790        210,642          132,561       201,015
Jam Production Plant
IRR (%)                          41.7           24.0             <0            12.7
NPV (R$)                        69,062         29,690           -33,720        5,652
Small Dairy Plant
IRR (%)                           19.7           2.0            n.d. (*)      n.d. (*)
NPV (R$)                        30,223         -23,493         -138,697       -84,981
(4) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.
- 30 -



Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general,
subprojects which are highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the
bakery, the fish farm, the jam production plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to
deteriorating market conditions than those with minor dependence on purchased inputs, e.g., the
manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and honey production subprojects. In
all cases, the worst scenario is that of a decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario
depends on the type of subproject; for subprojects highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the
increase in variable production costs (scenario 3), while for those with little dependence on
purchased inputs, it is the fall in output (scenario 1).
To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average of the IRRs of
the activity models included in the sample was calculated. The shares of each of the twelve types
of illustrative models (which were taken to represent other, similar ones) in the total amount
invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program until the end of April 2001 were used as
weights.* The resulting average IRR is 30.2%. This figure gives an indication of the overall
profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP.
* IRR of the "Small Irrigation I" and "Cashew Processing Planf' subprojects, which is higher than 50%, was taken to be equal to 50% in the
computation of the weighted average.
Fiscal Impact:
Evaluations indicate that subproject investments make a significant fiscal contribution through
cost savings to state and municipal governments. In Ceara, the RPAP project is estimated to have
saved in a year of "normal" rainfall, over R$950,000 by eliminating -- through investments in
water supply -- the need for water trucks to supply communities. In a year of severe drought
(1998), this amount more than doubled. Meanwhile, provision of better quality, more reliable
water reduced the public health costs to municipal governments. Cost savings also derive from
the community-driven design of the project; subprojects implemented by communities, directly or
contracted, were 30-50% lower than prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type
and quality. Finally, in terms of revenue generation, the RPAP Ceara and other states showed that
there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity became
available, significantly increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.* The MTR estimated
incremental ICMS revenue from the most common appliances to be about R$2.2 million in Ceara.
Aggregate Impact of the RPAP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area
The July 2000 impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States
including Ceara, provided an estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, income and
cultivated area of the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program.
The study, based on a sample from the most representative types of subprojects in each of the
States, with an error of less than 20%, provides summary figures for incremental jobs created,
incremental income generated and incremental number of hectares cultivated per unit invested in
productive subprojects.
- 31 -



Total investment in community subprojects:                           US$362.0 million
Incremental employment created:                                             40,000 jobs
Incremental net annual income/savings generated:                       US$80.0 million
Incremental cropped area:                                              40,000 hectares
These estimates are subject to several caveats, including that the sample's level of significance is
not large, and that the estimates reflect both direct impact of the investments on employment,
income and cultivated land as well as some indirect impacts, e.g., expansion of cultivated area,
employment and income denrved from the introduction of a tractor or a casa defarinha in a
certain community. The above figures should thus be viewed as indicative of the magnitude of
benefits involved. Finally Table D shows a variety of socio-economic benefits for main subproject
types implemented under the RPAP.
Table C: Socio-Economic Benefits of Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
Project Type      Total No. of    No. of   Cost per    Net No. of   Net Annual  Incremental   Economic
Subprojects   Benefic.    Subproject  Jobs Created  Incremental   Crop Area  Intemal Rate
Completed*  Families per    (US$)      per    Income/saving   Cultivated    of Return
Subproject             Subproject**   s per        per        (%)
Subproject   Subproject
(US$)     (hectares)
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply        4,025         71        30,149         -        12,369        1.4
Rural electrification     4,080         49        22,400                   1,942        1.6
Small bridges              538          139       26,350                   1,040        2.3
Community telephones       435          140       22,944         -          422          0      _
Productive:
Manioc mills               412          68        18,451       10.8       17,148        16.3        >30
Community Tractors         573          95        30,870       29.3       28,137       22.6         >30
Small-scale livestock      110          40        16,354        2.5        6,214        2.8         >30
Small-scale irrigation     146          36        25,158       25.4       23,800       37.9         >30
Social:
Road paving/rehab.         675          82        31,930         -          242         1.7
Sanitation systems         171          72        29,727                    0            0
- 32 -



Project Type            Total         Total    Economic Benefit-Cost
Investment per  Investment         Ratio
Beneficiary    per Job
Family       Created
(US$)         (US$)
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply             425             -
Rural electrification          457             -
Small bridges                  190             -
Community telephones           164             -                -
Productive:
Manioc mills                   271          1,708             >2.0
Community Tractors             325          1,054             >2.0
Small-scale livestock          409          6,542             >2. 0
Small-scale irrigation         699           990              >2.0
Social:
Road paving/rehab.             389             -                -
Sanitation systems             413
* As of March 2000. By January 2001, some 19,000 subprojects had been completed under the RPAP. Subproject distribution did not vary greatly.
** Many jobs created by the infrastructure and social subprojects come from additional economic activities made possible by the investments, but not
directly involved with the project after its construction/establishment.
-  The incremental crop areas associated with infrastructure and social subprojects come from the cultivation of additional areas, made possible by
the projects.
**** Obtained by using a real rate of 10% for the opportunity cost of capital.
- 33-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/95                         2   Economist
2   Agricultural Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/95                         3   Economist
2   Agricultural Economist
I   Civil Engineer
2   Agricultural Specialist
I   MIS Specialist
Supervision
06/95                    Update                                        HS             HS
06/96                    Update                                         S              S
08/96                         1   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
04/97                         1   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
10/97                         1   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
05/98                         2   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
Sociologist
11/98                         1   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
03/99                         3   Agricultural Economist                S              S
I   Sociologist
3   Agricultural Specialist
11/99                         1   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
06/00                          1   Agricultural Specialist              S              S
12/00                         I   Agricultural Specialist               S              S
01/01                          I   Agricultural Specialist              S              S
ICR
08/01                         1    Agricultural Specialist              S              S
(2) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation                 17.7                          34.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                       8.5                          18.0
Supervision                                90.3                         192.6
ICR                                         3.0                           6.0
Total                                     119.5                         251.5
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
a Macro policies                          OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Oi Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OiEnvironmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
EL Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                             OH  *SUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specfy)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development             0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specifv)                 O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.  Bank petJormance                                  Rating
n  Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
J Supervision                                         O HS      S   OKu  OHU
O Gverall                                             OHS *S OU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
Kj Preparation                                        O HS * S   K u   O HU
K Government implementation perJbrmance               O HS * S  0  U  0 HU
O Imiplementation agencyperformance                   0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
F Overall                                             OHS OS  O U O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
State of Ceara MTR Evaluation (Physical Implementation Review)
State of Ceara MTR Evaluation (Physical Implementation Review and Impact Evaluation).
Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil, (Draft), van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000.
Assessment of Community Participation, A. Costa, Bank/FAO, 1999.
Mid-term Review of RPAP in Ceara, 1999.
Bank Supervision Reports.
Project Audit Reports.
*Includes electronic files
- 37 -



- 38 -



