DOcuMnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 0
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2326-YU)
September 29, 1987
Operations Evaluation Department
This dtoamt hra a resited d1subdoms and -ay be med by recipent only in the perfornamee of
tdhr offiial dud   Its eontets may so otheuw;e be discloead withou World Bank uthborirlon.



LIST OF COMMON ABBREVIATIONS
EDF       -       Export Development Fund
LTPES     -       Long-Term Program for Economic Stabilization
SAL       -       Structural Adjustment Loan
UBB       -       Udruzena beogradska Banka
YBA       -       Yugoslav Banking Association
YBIEC     -       Yugoslavia Bank for International
Economic Carporation (YUBMES)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
1982 Average        -      US$1    50.28 dinars
1983 Average        -      US$1 =  92.84 dinars
1984 Average        -      US$1 = 152.82 dinars
1985 Average        -       US$1 - 270.16 dinars
1986 Average        -       US$1 = 379.22 dinars
December 1986       -       US$1 = 453.10 dinars
Marcti 1987         -       US$1 = 532.48 dinars



FOR OMfCIAL US ONLY
THE WOI(LD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
04k, af DwwCtw-GuwaI
OpfakwoEms £valum
September 29, 198;
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report on Yugoslavia -
'tructural Adjustment Loan (Loan 2326-YU)
Attached, f^r information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Performance Audit Report on Yugoslavia - Structural
Adjustment Loan (Loan 2326-YU)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perf ce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsted without World Baok autborkatbo,



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2326-YU)
Page No,
Preface ........... ................ *0*@*@*.......... *.* **.*e    i
Basic Data Sheet ..................................                        ii
Evaluation Sumnmary ..................................             , ii i
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMDRANDUM                               PPAM Page No.
i.   BLACKGROUND - PERIOD OF GROWTH .. ................. ....          1
II.   THE ECONOMIC CRISIS AND THE PREPARATION OF THE SAL * .......    2
A.  The Emergence of the Macroeconomic Imbalances * ........    2
B*  Designing the SAL            4...........................o    4
C.  Main Elements in the Action Program         ...................    6
D,  The Mechanism for Resource Transfer  ..,.......,.......    8
III.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE ..........       .. ........*    9
A.  Macroeconomic Performance  9...**...*..**        .....*       9
B.  Compliance with SAL Conditionality         ....................   10
C.  The Operations of the EDF  *..................*.......^,     10
IVo    ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF TIlE SAL ...........................   14
A.  Main Elements of Adjustment *                                14
B.  The Impact of the EDF *.........,.....         .             17
C.  Social Issues *................*.......o....^.e..o.@    19
D.  Relations with the IMF  ...........................   19
E.  Relationship of SAL to the Lending Program ............   20
V.   MAIN LESSONS LEARNED  ............... ...... .. .o.........e*    21
A.  The Design of the SAL ............*........,0 **0000,,0,    21
B.  The Operations of the EDF .............................   25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
PRWOECT COMPLETION REPORT                                           PCR Page No.
I.  Introduction      ... . ........ .                               29
II.  Background *.o,.e.s..soee.*..o...e.oos..ee...oee.o   29
III.  Progress in Areas Monitored Under the SAL Program **a*****.  33
A.  Investment Policy and Resource Allocation ............  33
B.  Foreign Exchange and External Trade                         35
C.  Price Policy . ....... .............. ........              36
D.  Financial Discipline                                        37
E.  Sector Reviews                                              38
IV.  Loan Administration                                             39
F. EDF Operations  ....39
G.  Loan Monitoring ...................................  39
V.  Summary and Conclusions                                         40
Annexes:
I - Letter of Development Policy                                    45
II - Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement/Tranche
Release Conditions                                            69
III - List of Criteria and Monitorable Actions                         70
IV - Summary of SAL-Related Missions                                  76
Tables:
1 - Distribution of EDF Funds as of June 11, 1986                     78
2 - Summary List of SAL Conditions and Undertakings                  79
Attachments:
I   Comments received from the Federal Secretariat of Finance . 80
II - Comments received from Udruzena Beogradska Banka ..........  84



W  1 j
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2326-YU)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Bank's structural adjustment
loan (SAL) provided to Yugoslavia for the amount of US$275 million. The loan
(Loan No. 2326-YU) was approved on June 28, 1983, was signed on July 7, 1983
and was fully disbursed in July 1985.   The loan was made to the Udruzena
Beogradska Banka with the guarantee of the Yugoslav Government.
The Program Performance Audit Report (PPAR) consists of a Program
Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM) prepared by the Operations Evaluation
Department and a Project Completion keport (PCR) prepared by the Bank's
operational staff. The PPAM is based on a review of the President's Report,
the Loan .greement, the summary of Board discussion, the project files,
economic and sector reports and special studies, and interviews with Bank
staff. An OED mission visited Yugoslavia in October-November 1986 to inter-
view Government officials and to receive additional information.  The kind
cooperation and assistance of the authorities is gratefully acknowledged.
The PCR provides a satisfactory review of the policy content of the
loan, the various conditions which were agreed upon by the Bank and the
Yugoslav Government, and the extent of compliance.  The PPAM focuses on the
factors which influenced the design and content of the policy package, the
procedures for processing the loan within the Bank, and provides a brief
description of the political and institutional structure of the country which
influenced implementation.   It also provides additional information on the
performance of the mechanism for resource transfer which involved the estab-
lishment of an Export Development Fund by the borrowing agency.
Comments received  from  the  Federal Se,.retariat of Finance and
Udruzena Beogradska Banka on an early draft of this report are reproduced as
Attachments I and II to this report.  These comments have been taken into
account in the PPAM.



- Li -
PROGRAM PERPOMRANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGVILAVIA,
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2326-YU)
BASIC DATA SHEET
LOAN STATUS
(Amounts in US$ million)
As of 05/31/87
Outstanding
Original     Disbursed    Cancelled       Repaid   Obligations
Loan 2326-YU    275.0          275.0         -            11.5       396.7 /a
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY84            FY85
(i)  Planned                  275.0             -
(ii)  Actual                   121.2           275.0
(iii)  (ii) as % of (i)          44X              _
OTHER LOAN DATA
Original                  Actual or
Loan Dates                Re-estxmated
Initiating Memorandum              02/17/83                    01/17/83
Negotiations                        05/09/83                   05/09/83
Board Approval                      06/28/83                   06/28/83
Loan Agreement                      07/07/83                   07/07/83
Effectiveness                      09/06/83                    08/24/83
Loan Closing                        06/30/84                   05/30/85
Actual Completion                   06/30/84                   05/30/85
MISSION/STAFF INPUT DATA
Month/       No. of       Staff
Year         Persons      Weeks /b       Date of Report
Preparation/
Preappraisal         01/83            2            9.3             --
Appraisal          02-03/83           6           77.0         06/02/83
Supervision
Missions:          10-11/83           5      )                 01/09/84
05/84           3      )   109.6          06/06/84
10/84           1      )                  11/08/84
03/85           3      )                     __
Completion           06/86            1            3.8          10/24/86
/a   Includes 133.1 exchange adjustment.
7S   Includes total staff weeks devoted to SAL based on the Time Recording
System.



- iii -
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2326-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
In the period following World War II through the mid-1970s,
Yugoslavia experienced a remarkable economic expansion.   Accompanied by a
sharp decline in the rate of growth of population, per capita income more
than tripled, absolute poverty was eradicated and a predominantly agrarian
society  was  transformed  into  a  modern  diversified  economy.         These
developments took place within, and were influenced by, the unique political
and institutional framework which was undergoing continuous evolution.
(PPAM, paras. 1 and 2).
A socialist economy, Yugoslavia in 1965 abandoned rigid central
planning and the orientation shifted toward decentralization of domestic
economic decision-making with greater integration into the world economy.
Self-managed  enterprises and the banks which they controlled became the
primary decision makers and many responsibilities of the federal government
were transferred to the six independent republics and two autonomous
provinces  which  comprise  the  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia
(SFRY).    A new  constitution  adopted  in  1974  increased  the  extent  of
decentralization.     The  republican  structure  has  long  historic  roots
reflecting cultural, religious and social differences among the populations
in  the  various  regions  of  the country.    Moreover,  the republics  are
characterized by significant variations in economic characteristics, the area
of the more developed north having per capita income levels substantially
above those prevailing in the less developed south (PPAM, paras. 1-4).
The Economic Crisis and the Preparation of the SAL
During   the   1970s,   Yugoslavia   experienced   sharp   cyclical
fluctuations in economic activity.   At the  end of  the decade,  it waa
confronted by serious domestic financial, and external imbalances and there
was growing realization that a major reorientation of macroeconomic policies
was required to deal with the situation deriving from the changed external
environment and internal stresses; critical reforms were needed to correct
the distorted set of incentives facing economic agents.   A comprehensive
stabilization program was initiated in 1979 which, after May 1980, was
supported by an IMF-standby sgreement.   Some improvement in the external
balance was subsequently achieved but the adjustment process was made more



- iv -
complex by adverse developments in international capital markets during 1982
and emerging liquidity problems in major Yugoslav banks (PPAM, paras. 8410;
PCR, paras. 4-7).
At the end of 1982, an attempt was made to put together an
international financial rescue package, the IMF helpirg to coordinate the
efforts of the private commercial banks while several OECD countries
assembled official commodity, export and financial credits.  To round out a
package expected to amount to about US$6 billion, the desirability of Bank
participation was indicated.   In December 1982, after consultation with the
Bank, the Yugoslav Government formally requested that consideration be given
to the preparation of a SAL (PPAM, paras. 10-14).
Earlier during 1981, the Yugoslav Government had organized a high
level body of policy makers and academics, a Commission on Economic
Stabilization, to formulate an adequate stabiliZation Drogram and to frame an
appropriate medium term development program which would entail significant
policy reforms.  At the same time the Bank had intensified its own economic
work program in the country, preparing a major ecotiomic study, and a close
working relationship was developed with the members of the Commission.  The
Bank's  report,   providing  a  comprehensive   analysis   of  macroeconomic
developments and of the strucLural imbalances, represented a merging of views
on the major elements underlying the crisis. The Commission in 1982 issued a
series of working papers and presented its conclusions in the Long-Term
Program for Economic Stabilization (LTPES) issued in 1983 (PPAMJ, paras.
11-13).
In the early stages of review of the Government's request, some
consideration was given to a more iimited sectoral adjustment program, given
a perceived ambivalent attitude in the Board regarding the content of SALs.
However, in an apparent attempt to provide support to the Stabilization
Gommission which was proposing major structural reforms, as well as to
impress upon the participants in the rescue package the seriousness of the
Yugoslav effort, a broad based SAL program was drafted, embracing critical
macroeconomic aspects as well as sectoral issues.   Given the economic work
already completed by the Bank and the on-going dialogue with the
Stabilization Commission in Yugoslavia, the Bank was able to proceed rapidly
in the processing of the loan for US$275 million which was presented to the
Board in June '1983. (PPAM, paras. 15-20).
As outlined in the Letter of Develor,ment Policy submitted by the
Federal Secretary of Finance, the action program under the SAL focussed on
three principal areas: (a) investment planning and resource allocation; (b)
foreign exchange allocation and external trade policies; and (c) price
policies and enterprise decision-making.   The actions defined in each area
ranged from the formulation of specific policy measures to the preparation of
studies or reports which could serve to determine the future orientation of
work.  The loan would be tranched, US$175 million becoming available on the
date of effectiveness and the balance to be made available subject to the
Bank being satisfied, after an exchange of views with the Government, with
the progress being made in the execution of the program; it was expected that



this would occur three to four months after effectiveness  (PPAM,, paras.
22-29; PCR, Annex I).
In the preparation stage, the Bank did not focus on the mechanism
for resource transfer which in most other SALs had financed a defined set of
imported commodities. The Government had indicated that at least some part
of the resources would be used to set up on a revolving basis an Export
Development Fund (EDF) tc provide short-term foreign currency financing for
the imported input requirements of exporting enterprises; similar mechanisms
were to be established to utilize some of the bilateral suppliers' credits
being made available within the financial rescue package. At the concluding
meeting of the Bank's appraisal mission, the Government indicated its
decision to use the entire proceeds of the SAL f or an EDF (PPAM, paras. 31
and 32).
Implementation Experience
Macroeconomic Performance. The external balance in 1983 continued
to show some improvement, largely due to a decrease in imports as well as
some increase in exports to convertible currency areas.   Domestic demand
fell, particularly investment, and total GDP declined sllghtly; nevertheless
inflation continued unabated.  In 1984 economic performance was essentially
unchanged; the short-term stabilization efforts appeared to have eased the
external imbalance but output remained stagtiant and inflation accelerated.
In 198S, some of the constraints on domestic demand were eased and there was
a revival in domestic activity; however, the current account surplus with the
convertible currency areas was reduced and the inflation rate contir.ued
unchecked. The growth rate of the economy in 1986 was the highest in several
years but it was accompanied by accelerated inflation and a deterioration in
the external balance. At the beginning of 1987, the country once again faced
serious external and internal imbalances (PPAM, paras. 33-35).
Operations  of the EDF.    In accordance  with  the  institutional
characteristics of the banking system and of Yugoslavia's operations with the
Bank, the Yugoslav Banking Association chose the Udrezena Beogratska Banka
(UBB), one of two associated banks in the Republic of Serbia, to operate the
EDF and it became the borrower with the guarantee of the Federal Government.
After an initial period of low level of applications, the pace of
commitments accelerated rapidly and the Bank's funds were fully disbursed in
two years, by August 1985.   By the end of October 1986, total approvals
amounted to US$660 million, roughly two and one-half times the original
funding. Assuming an import content of one-third, EDF funds resulted in some
US$2 billion in exports.   It is not possible to determine the extent of
"additional" exports but interviews with a sample of EDF clients indicated
that their trade was, at the least, facilitated by the existence of the fund,
given the complexity of the administrative regulations governing imports and
foreign exchange allocation at the time and the untied nature of Bank
finance. In spite of efforts made to achieve country-wide distribution, some
60% of the funds were used by enterprises in the Republic of Serbia which
accounts for some 20% of exports to the convertible currency areas.   The



- vi -
performance of EDF compares favorably with that of the various funds set up
under bilateral official suppliers' credits.  None were fully utilized and
almost one-third of the total resources available was cancelled by the end of
1985; a major factor in the lower rate of utiitzation was the tied nature of
these credits.
In the course of 1986, EDF experienced a decline in demand for its
funds and began to accumulate unutilized balances. EDF funds, available at a
spread above the Bank's lending rate, were no longer competitive with
commercial bank short-term credits (in foreign exchange) based on LIBOR. In
addition, it appears that the prevailing allocation system was making
available adequate foreign exchange to established exporters; to the extent
that these enterprises required credit for the dinars to purchase that
exchange, prevailing domestic interest rates were also favorable.  However,
at the beginning of 1987, there was a recovery in demand for EDF funds; it
appears likely that increases in domestic interest rates, the persistent
foreign exchange shortage and the untied nature of the resources all
encouraged renewed use of the Fund.
EDF now faces a serious problem due to the recent weakening of the
US dollar.  Under the currency pool arrangements for disbursing Bank loans,
the dollar value of UBB's obligations to the Bank in January 1987 was abeut
45% above the nominal value.   As a consequence,  UBB's interest and loan
repayments at that time were about 45% more in dollar terms than originally
expected (PPAM, paras. 37-46).
Compliance  with  SAL  Conditionality.    The  SAL  contained  24
monitorable con3itions, including the establishment of the EDF.  The review
in mid-1986, in connection with the preparation of the PCR, indicated that
six conditions had been implemented more or less as originally defined, 11
partially met and the remainder largely not implemented (PCR, paras. 13-33
and Table 4). Details are given below.
Assessing the Impact of the SAL and Main Lessons Learned
The Adjustment Process. In its broadest sense, the SAL has failed
to  achie-ie  its  objectives.    The  recent  poor  macroeconomic  performance
reflects in great part the regression which has occurred as regards the com-
mitment to achieve a more open and market-oriented economy; the regression
underlies the limited adherence of the Yugoslav authorities with the action
program.   While the short-term stabilization efforts and import controls
reduced for a time external deficits, inadequate progress in achieving the
necessary structural reforms leaves the country once more facing serious
internal and external imbalances.
Lack of progress in moving towards positive real lending rates and
in establishing an adequately functioning foreign exchange market, as well as
the persistence of import controls,  remain the principal  concerns.   The
permissive monetary management leading to record inflation, the limited
success in imposing financial discipline, has reduced the possibility of
taking corrective actions in the first two areas at the present time (PPAK,
paras. 47-50).



- vii -
Nevertheless, significant institutional changes supported by the
SAL have begun to take root, albeit at a slower pace than expected.  A key
element le the growing acceptance of a project evaluation methodology
focussing on economic rates of return.  When properly applied in investment
decisions, the methodology can help avoid the selection of uneconomic
projects.   The recent law on social  planning  is designed  to promote an
inter-republican approach to investment in several infra-structure fields to
avoid duplication of facilities.
To develop financial discipline, additional measures have been
taken to strengthen bankruptcy laws, to restrain banks from maintaining
support to bankrupt firms, and to establish accounting sta'dards to ensure
realistic evaluations of the  financial  positions of enterprises.    These
reforms represent important constraints on the behavior of enterprises as
well as the banks,
Important advances had also been made in the area of price
liberalization but changes continue to occur.   The 1987 economic program
contained measures reflecting a more positive attitude towards use of the
price mechanism to achieve allocative efficiency than prevailing in previous
legislation. However, in February 1987, measures were taken to limit price
increases as well as wage increases,
As regards sectoral issues, in some instances (e.g. agriculture,
energy and transport) the monitorable conditions largely pursued policy
matters which had emerged in the implementation of ongoing projects or in the
preparation  of  projects  in  the  pipeline;   compliance  was  generally
satisfactory and related conditions were incorporated into the respective
projects.  However, in the case of the industrial sector, the Bank had had
limited exposure and the studies to be undertaken withia the action program
were essentially designed to deepen its lzaowledge of different manufacturing
activities  with a view  towards  possible  project  financing.    It  proved
possible to organize only one (for textiles) of the five or six study groups
expected and that with considerable delay. Many factors contributed to this
result, including the reluctance of firms to submit to review by external
groups and the complex institutional characteristics of the subsectoral
organizations (PPAM, paras. 50-57).
Main Lessons Learned. With hindsight, the co tent of the Yugoslav
SAL, the 24 monitorable conditions, was overly ambitious and unnecessarily
complex.  The issues on which attention was focussed covered not only the
principal macroeconomic areas but also a number of sectoral problems which
might have been more effectively dealt with separately. It included a number
of conditions which had limited operational content while, in several other
instances, the Bank had not been adequately prepared in formulating the
provisions and difficulties were encountered in implementation (PPAM, para.
72).
Nevertheless, the question may be raised whether, even if the
quality of the product delivered by the Bank had been improved, would it have
been any more effective in achieving the desired results.   There is little



- viii -
doubt that at the end of 1982 the need for major reforms was recognized and
advocated by many individuals within the technical circles of the Government
and the academic community. Unfortunately, however, the Yugoslav authoritias
involved in elaborating the SAL program with the Bank, as well as the Bank
staff, underestimated the political difficulties in implementing the main
elements of the reforms proposed (PPAM, paras. 69 and 70).
Each of the administrations which has been in office since the SAL
was initiated has also recogrnized the need for basic economic policy
changes. To elaborate and implement the necessary measures requires a set of
political compromises; all macroeconomic reforms involve some element of
compromise  among  the  various  domestic  political  forces.    The Yugoslav
situation is unique because of the extent to which these political aspects
have been institutionalized. As a consequence, it can be expected that the
pace of reforms which are needed to improve economic performance will be slow
and the record has been one of irregular progress.   By their nature these
compromises can only be reached through highly visible and open transactions
among the parties concerned. It is not unreasonable to ask whether the
process has been helped or hindered by the appearance of external
intervention.
SAL programs seek to provide solutions to medium term development
problems and are complementary to stabilization programs, for example those
supported by the IMF.  One characteristic of this SAL was that the resources
made available, at least for the first of what was considered to be a series
of operations, were deemed necessary to fill out a large financial assistance
package designed to meet immediate needs. Had this pressure to complete the
operation quickly not existed, and had some other lending form been available
to effect the resource transfer, the complexity of the political situation
might have been explored in more detail and a more realistic assessment could
have been made of the prospects (PPAM, paras. 78-80).
The adjustment process in Yugoslavia has not ended and it is likely
that  the  pace  will  continue  to be  at a  speed  slower  than originally
expected.   Moreover, it now appears likely that there will be need for
additional resource transfers to the country in the immediate future, an area
in  which  the  Bank  could  provide  additional  support.    With  hindsight,
Yugoslavia at the time was not an appropriate candidate for a SAL; while the
need for adjustment was widely accepted the process was likely to require
considerable time for implementation given the political complexity.   Is
there a basis for considering non-project lending to Yugoslavia in the
future?   The lessons from this experience suggest that, at the least, it
would have to be substantially front-loaded (PPAM, para. 82).
Other lessons relate to the possible inclusion of sectoral
conditions in a SAL. Where there has been previous accumulation of knowledge
through earlier projects, links between SAL conditionality and on-going
operations  can  be beneficial.   On  the other  hand,  it does not appear
desirable for the Bank to use SALs as a means of promoting projects where it
has not already accumulated a substantial background of work (PPAM, paras.
75-77).



- ix -
Impact of the EDF,  During this period, the EDF has fulfilled its
objectives.   After some decline in demand for its funds in the course of
1986, the rate of loan approvals increased again at the beginning of 1987,
reflecting essentially the impact of a number of the policy adjustments made
at that time. However, it is likely that the demand for these resources will
be volatile. There remain problems in competing with commercial credit which
is available at more favorable rates.   EDF is lending long-term resources
(from the Bank) for short-term purposes; at the time of establishment, long
term rates in international markets were lower than those for short term and
that situation, not the normal pattern, has now been reversed.  A return to
more normal conditions in the foreign exchange and domestic credit markets in
Yugoslavia  could  lead  once  again  to  a  shitt  away  from  the  fund.
Consideration should therefore be given to other uses for unutilized
balances, including the possibility of fixed asset financing (PPAM, paras.
83-86).
The changes in currency parities, most recently the weakening of
the dollar, affect all of the Bank's borrowers and the Bank has been
reviewing its procedures to determine if there are ways it can assist its
cl.ients, as well as to increase its efforts at familiarizing borrowers with
the workings of the system and measures to minimize risks.   It is also
important that governments themselves review the situation, particularly in
cases such as Yugoslavia where borrowers are many different institutions or
banks (PPAM, para. 61).
The use of the EDF as the mechanism for resource transfer was
rather unique in a S&L and gave the operation project content, since the Bank
in a number of countries has directly supported such institutions with
"free-standing"  projects.   Some of the lessons relevant  to this type of
operation are summarized in the PPAM, paras. 87-90.  The experience in this
instance also indicates the importance of focussing on the mechanism of
resource transfer as early as possible in the preparation of a SAL (PPAM,
para. 91).



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2326-YU)
I. BACKGROUND - PERIOD OF GROWTH
1.        During the 1960s and 1970s, Yugoslavia experienced an impressive
record of economic development, the rate of GNP growth in the latter decade
averaging about 7 percent. At the same time there was a significant reduc-
tion in the population growth rate from 1.7 percent in 1950 to 0.9 percent at
the end of the 1970s; as a consequence, real per capita incomes more than
tripled between the mid-1950s and the beginning of the 1980s and absolute
poverty was eradicated.   From a predominately agrarian society, Yugoslavia
was transformed into a modern diversified economy, the share of agriculture
in GDP declining from 36 to 14 percent between the mid-1950s and the end of
the 1970s.
2.        The political and institutional structures of the country are rath-
er unique and the changes and modifications introduced during the years of
rapid growth played important roles in generating that growth as well as in
the subsequent period of crises aad stagnation.  A socialist economy, Yugo-
slavia in 1965 abandoned rigid central planning and the orientation shifted
toward decentralization of domestic economic decision-making with greater in-
tegration into the world economy. An increasing role was assigned to market
forces in determining prices and resource allocation.   Self-managed enter-
prises and the banks which they controlled became the primary decision makers
and many responsibilities of the federal government were transferred to the
six independent republics which (along with two autonomous provinces)
comprise the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY).   The set of
instruments used at micro levels became part of a system of macroeconomic
management enabling the participation of all economic agents in the
formulation of major economic policies.
3.        In 1974, a new constitution was adopted which greatly increased the
scope of the workers' self-management system in the formulation and implemen-
tation of economic policy. Moreover, steps were taken for further devolution
of powers to the regional bodies within the republican framework.
4.        The republican structure has long historic roots reflecting cultur-
al, religious and social differences among the populations in the various re-
gions of the country. At the same time, the republics are characterized by
rather sharp variations in economic characteristics, particularly per capita
income levels; for example, the ratio between per capita GNP in the Republic
of Slovenia, the most developed region bordering on Italy and Austria, to
that of Kosovo, the least developed autonomous province in the south, was es-
timated at six to one in the 1970s. These regions are equally represented in
the federal legislative system.



5.        In line with the general expansion of Bank lending in the years
since the late 1960s, Yugoslavia's borrowing from the Bank, which cumulative-
ly had amounted to US$377 million at the end of FY69, increased rapidly; in
the four-year period from FY70 to FY73, a total of US$374 million was lent,
virtually the same as in the previous two decades.   During the subsequent
four-year period, FY74 to FY77, Bank operations amounted to over US$200 mil-
lion per annum and during the period FY78 through FY82 the average reached
about US$335 million per annum. As a consequence, the country became one of
the largest clients of the Bank, representing slightly less than five percent
of the total portfolio throughout this period,
6.        In view of the unique economic and political decision-making struc-
ture of the country, and particularly the disparities in incomes among the
republics, the Bank focussed much of its lending, as well as its economic and
sector work, on channelling resources to the less developed regions which lie
predomfaantly in the southern part of the country.   For example, in the
second half of the 1970s about two-thirds of lending was targetted to that
area. At the same time, in several sectors, notably transport and power gen-
eration, the regional objective was combined with institutional development
and sectoral coordination objectives, seeking an inter-republican approach to
investment in those fields to benefit rrom economies of scale and to avoid
duplication of investment in necessary facilities.
7.        Bank economic and sector work dealt largely with analyzing the im-
plications of the particular set of political and economic institutions.
While these analyses pointed up the need for modifications in macroeconomic
policy, the limited authority of the Federal Government in the economic area
tended to reduce the possibilities for a systematic macroeconomic policy dia-
logue particularly after the 1974 constitutional changes. Two major studies
were prepared by the Bank in the 1970s dealing with the self-management
system of enterprise control and the republican nature of the political
system;I/ these studies were given wide distribution, designed to promote
within the international community a better understanding of how the systems
functioned, These efforts were closely linked to the lending program which
sought to develop through a number of projects financing arrangements with
external official and private financial institutions, and, in more general
terms, to increase Yugoslavia's access to international capital markets.
Considerable success was achieved in this respect.
II. THE ECONIOMIC CRISIS AND THE PREPARATION OF THE SAL
A,   The Emergence of the Macroeconomic Imbalances
8.        The decade  of  the  1970s  was  characterized  by  sharp  cyclical
variations in economic performance. The previous period of expansion and of
basic structural transformation had occurred in the a.ontext of high world
1/   See Yugoslavia:   Development with Decentralization, (Baltimore: Johns
Hopkins University Press, 1975) and Yugoslavia: Self-Management Social-
ism - Challenges of Development, (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 1979).



- 3 -
economic growth; the movement towards opening the Yu oslav economy had per-
mitted  it to zake advantage of  that  development. /   With  the  loss  of
dynamism in the external environment following the first oil price shock at
the end of 1973, structural imbalances which had emerged during the period of
growth but which had not impinged on that growth began to have adverse impact
on the performance of the economy.   At the same time internal adjustments
were required to accomodate the changes which had occurred in the world
economy. An adjustment strategy was proposed in the 1976-1980 economic plan
but it was not until the end of the decade that the course of economic events
began to indicate the need for a substantial reorientation of macroeconomic
policies. Major reforms were needed to correct the distorted set of incen-
tives facing economic agents (see PCR, paras. 4-7).   Pervasive price con-
trols, fixed ir-irest rates (largely negative in real terms) for both
borrowers and lenders, lack of financial discipline among the self-managed
enterprises and the banks they controlled, a highly protected domestic
industry, and foreign exchange controls all imposed severe constraints on the
proper functioning of product, capital and currency markets.
9.        In 1979, an overheated domestic economy with domestic inflationary
tendencies exacerbated by the second oil price shock, an earthquake affecting
tourism receipts and poor agricultural conditions led to a current account
deficit of US$3.7 billion, around 6 percent of GDP.  A comprehensive stabi-
lizatior, program was initiated, supported after May 1980 by an IMF stand-by
agreement; this resulted in a reduced external deficit in 1980 and a further
reduction in 1981, the latter attributable to both an expansion in exports
and reduction in imports.  However, in 1982, export volume declined but the
deficit was again reduced mainly through a very sharp curtailment of imports
which had an adverse impact on output and employment.
10.       Attempts at formulating adjustment efforts were complicated by ad-
verse developments in the international capital market in 1982 and, at the
same time, some Yugoslav banks also faced serious liquidity crises.   These
events led to sharply higher interest payments on the outstanding debt, as
well as difficulties in obtaining both roll-overs of maturiing loans (parti-
cularly short-term) and new credits needed to meet the country's liquidity
needs. With the aid of the IMF, meetings were held with the major creditor
banks to arrange continuing financial assistance while, simultaneously, a
number of OECD countries assembled an aid package of commodity, export and
financial credits to be made available in 1983 and 1984.  As noted in the
President's Report for the SAL,31 representatives of the OECD countries and
the commercial banks indicated that a World Bank contribution would be a
2/   Thus, the share of exports of goods and services in GDP rose from 7.3%
in 1960 to 19.3% in 1970 while the share of Yugoslavia in the total
exports of non-oil developing countries rose from 2.1% to 3.5% in the
same period. reflecting a fourfold increase in the value of the
country's exports.
3/   Report No. P-3606-YU, dated June 2, 1983.



- 4 -
desirable element in the major financial programs being organized which were
expected to total in excess of US$6 billion.
11.       The macroeconomic difficulties which had begun to emerge in the
late 1970s had led the Bank to increase its attention to these issues, a ten-
dency which was in line with the general policy being pursued at the time to
devote more of the Bank's staff resources to such work.  A report dealing
with export petformance and policies was issued in 1980 and in June 1981 a
major economic mission visited Yugoslavia.  The rep'rt of this mission, en-
titled Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (Report
No. 3954-YU), was issued in November 1982; a draft had been discussed with
the Government in June 1982.
12.       The work of this mission coincided with the strong efforts being
undertaken by the Yugoslav Government to analyze the origins of its economic
difficulties, to formulate an adequate stabilization program and to frame an
appropriate medium term development program. A high-level body of Yugoslav
policy makers and academics, known as the Commission on Economic Stabiliza-
tion, was formed in the second half of 1981 and during 1982 it issued a
series of working papers. The Bank's economic staff maintained close working
relationship with members of the Commission in the development of its work
and the Bank's report was able to reflect a merging of views on major
elements underlying the crisis.
13.       The 1982 economic report thus provided a comprehensive analysis of
macroeconomic developments, in particular the structural imbalances in the
external sector reflecting inadequate encouragement to export activity, an
excessive rate of investment characterized by serious misallocation of re-
sources, and the deep-rooted lack of financial discipline among enterprises
and the banking system, also contributing to the poor resource allocation.
In addition, it provided indications of the basic distortions in sectoral
structures.
14.        In December 1982, the Yugoslav Government formally requested the
Bank to consider a structural adjustment loan and urged ttiot, in the context
of the international financial assistance program then being assembled, every
effort be made to finalize the loan before the end of the Bank's fiscal
year.  Given the extent of -he knowledge which the Bank had accumulated on
the economic crisis, a preappraisal mission was quickly mobilized in
January-February  1983 to develop  the main  principles  of  the  adjustment
program to be supported and an appraisal mission was in the field in March to
work out in more detail the program.
B.  Designing the SAL
15.      Prior to the 1982-83 crisis, consideration had been given within the
Bank to the possibility of developing such a loan (or a series of loans) for
Yugoslavia.   It was recognized from  the outset  that the nature of the
country's political and economic institutions which were seen as integral to
the problems in turn made it extremely difficult to generate the consensus
and commitment which were essential to the design of such a program.   The



- 5 -
extensive work which the Bank had undertaken in 1979 and 1980 with regard to
export performance suggested at the time that a limited or sectoral approach
to non-project  lending might be readily  acceptable.   At  the  time,  the
Government had not indicated interest in non-project lending and, with a
relatively strong project pipeline, this was not pursued.
16.      At the end of 1982, after consultations with the Bank, the Govern-
ment formally requested a SAL; at the same time, the participants in the
official and private financial packages indicated their desire to obtain a
contribution from the Bank. It was possible, as noted above, to move quickly
to set out the major issues which would be dealt with in the context of the
SAL program. Following the analysis of the 1982 economic report, three main
areas emerged both from the point of view of meeting stabilization needs, as
well as for promoting medium term development efforts.   These were:  (a)
investment planning and resource allocation; (b) foreign exchange allocation
and external trade policies; and (c) price policies and enterprise decision
making. These were, moreover, the major policy areas which the Stabilization
Commission had itself focussed on and where its own conclusions, formalized
in the Long-Term Program for Economic Stabilization (LTPES) issued in the
second half of 1983, provided a framework as to content and timing of the
policy reforms.   Given the economic analysis which it had undertaken, the
Bank could also provide important details to assist in implementation in
selected areas.
17.      At an early stage of discussion of possible assistance from the
Bank, the question of a limited sectoral approach was again raised, given
that much of the suggested program might be elaborated within such a
framework. In part this consideration was motivated by what appeared to be
at the time an ambivalent attitude of the Bank's Board to the concept and
scope of SALs.  Although more than 15 SALs had been approved by the end of
1982, on the occasion of each Board approval there had been considerable
discussion on the diversity of the content covering such matters as the
scope of policy reforms, the degree of coilditionality and timirg. Within the
Bank efforts had been made to establish criteria for these types of opera-
tions but, given the very nature of the issues to be dealt with, these tended
to be general and subject to varied interpretation.4/
18.      After some discussion and consultation with the Yugoslav authori-
ties, the decision was made to proceed with elaborating a SAL program.  In
part this appears to have been motivated by the desire to lend support to the
far-reaching effort being undertaken by the Stabilization Commission which
was involved in proposing major structural reforms in the country and to
strengthen its hands  in the domestic decision-making.    In addition,  it
appeared useful to highlight the reform program to the other participants in
the international financial package. There was, moreover, the possibilty of
4/   Some of these problems are explored in the recent report of the OED
entitled Structural Adjustment Lending - A First Review of Experience,
Report No. 6409, dated September 29, 1986, particularly Chapter 1.



developing a much stronger and longer lasting policy dialogue between the
Bank and the Yugoslav authorities, particularly since the SAL process was
generally expected to involve a series of loans. Moreover, in ait environment
of limited experience with SAL lending and the uncertainty as to precise
scope, a broad approach to the design of the Yugoslav SAL was adopted,
embracing sectoral problems as well as macroeconomic areas.
19.      The action program as regards macroeconomic areas to be included in
the first SAL operation could be based upon the initiatives of the Stabiliza-
tion Commission, including the measures already taken in such matters as cur-
tailment of investment and more rational investment decision-making, interest
rate policy, exchange rate valuation and export promotion. Further measures
were proposed by the Bank and accepted by Yugoslav authorities in these areas
in the light of the recommendations of the 1982 economic report, as well as
of the 1980 export promotion study.
20.      As regards sectoral problems, in a number of sectors, such as trans-
port, agriculture and energy, Bank project work had already identified key
issues and appropriate measures or studies were underway in the context of
ongoing operations or in the preparation of projects in the pipeline; these
were considered to be complementary to the measures being proposed at the
macro-economic level.   Thus, the specific components contained in the SAL
largely reinforced the understandings already reached in the ongoing project
work.
21.      On the other hand, in the case of the industrial sector which, by
its size, had to be considered a priority, there had been limited involve.-ent
of the Bank, mainly for DFC-related lending to medium and small-scale indus-
tries in the less developed republics and provinces.   Since interest rate
policy was of concern in those instances, there had been some attempts to
deal with the Government's overall approach to lending rates. While indus-
trial development problems had been analyzed in broad sectoral terms in
earlier Bank economic reports, the structural characteristics of the sector,
particularly of large-scale industries, had not been examined in detail. As
a consequence there was interest in using the opportunity provided by the SAL
to explore some of those issues and to deepen the Bank's knowledge of the
characteristics of Yugoslav industry.  In this case, therefore, the need to
build up the Bank's knowledge led to the elaboration of a new program of
stu'ies for inclusion under the SAL. The specific elements of these studies
were nresented to the Government on the grounds of their relevance to the
issu   and to the medium term development needs of the country, given the
impc-:au.e of industrial activities in the economy, and of the possibility of
identifyit  and preparing future projects for Bank lending.
C.   Main Elements in the Action Program
22.       The main elements of the action program agreed upon were outlined
in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) submitted to the Bank by the Feder-
al Secretary of Finance,  reproduced as an annex to the PCR.   The letter
spelled out the measures which had already been taken as well as those pro-
posed within the specified time frame.   As noted in para. 16, three areas



- 7 -
were highlighted:    (a)  investment  planning and resource allocation;  (b)
foreign exchange allocation and external trade policies; and (c) price
policies and enterprise decision-making.
23.       Actions were defined in each of these areas, ranging from the for-
mulation of specific policies to the preparation of studies or reports which
could serve to determine the future orientation of work.   The loan was
tranched, US$175 million becoming available on the date of effectiveness.
The second tranche, the remaining US$100 million, was to be made available
subject to the Banl being satisfied, after an exchange of views with the Gov-
ernment, with the progress being made in the execution of the program; this
was expected to take place about October 1983.
24.       Policy actions in the area of resource allocation included an
agreement to reach positive real interest rates for lending intermediated
funds within two, three or five years depending upon sectoral priorities
through gradual increases in minimum nomina, lending rates.  As a further
means for improving resource allocation, it 'as agreed that a Social Compact
on Uniform Investment Criteria would be formulated with the participation of
the key institutions involved in investment decision-making. These criteria
would be based on economic rates of return principles developed by the Bank
in its methodology for project evaluation.
25.       As regards price policies, the Government indicated its intention
over the medium term to increase the proportion of commodities whose prices
would not be subject to control or review by the Federal Price Agency.   In
the case of certain energy related items, it was agreed to formulate a long-
term policy to achieve parity with economic prices over a period of four to
six years.
26.       Measures to strengthen the legal framework for enforcing financial
discipline within enterprises and the banking system were also set forth with
action to be taken in the course of 1983. In addition, the Government was to
initiate a program to limit payments from common reserve funds which had been
used to cover the operating losses of enterprises.
27.       As regards the operation of the foreign exchange market, note was
taken of the commitment made to maintain a competitive exchange rate as part
of the IMF standby. A study of the existing foreign exchange allocation sys-
tem, with a view towards eventual liberalization, was to be undertaken and
discussed with the Bank and the Fund in late 1983.
28.       A number of other studies in the area of foreign exchange and ex-
ternal trade were also spelled out.   The topics included export marketing,
export incentives and export credit facilities; the studies were to lead to
the formulation of action programs in the course of 1984. In the case of im-
port controls, the Government indicated its intention to develop by September
1983 a program for phased import liberalization parallel to the liberaliza-
tion of the foreign exchange market, to be implemented in the course of 1984
and 1985. In this connection, a study of effective protection, tracing the
effects of trade and payments restrictions on domestic prices, was to be un-
dertaken for completion by April 1985.



- 8 -
29.       Sectoral conditions, aside from price policies noted above, cen-
tered on investment reduction and the undertaking of studies of subsectoral
structures and/or efficiency. In the agricultural sector, a study of primary
production was formulated drawing largely on the on-going project work (see
PCR, para. 30).   It was also agreed to undertake studies for restructuring
selected industrial subsectors parallel with studies on energy conservation
at enterprise levels; details of this work were to be worked out in subse-
quent discussions with the Bank. It was contemplated that a proposed techni-
cal assistance  Bank loan would be used  to finance the latter group of
studies.
30.       Finally,  as an input to the economic dialogue between the Bank and
the Yugoslav Government, a report would be prepared for discussion with the
Bank (first on a semi-annual basis, subsequently on a quarterly basis) show-
ing in particular sectoral allocation of investment expenditure, reflecting
the revisions in the 1981-85 Plan which had been introduced in mid-1982, and
analyzing the priority nature of individual large projects. In the particu-
lar case of energy, a program of priority investment projects for the period
1983-85 (the core investment program) would be defined.
D.   The Mechanism for Resource Transfer
31.      In the preparation stage, the Bank did not focus on the mechanism of
resource transfer, preferring to leave the decision on this matter to the
Yugoslav authorities. Some early indication was given by the Government that
at least part of the proceeds of a first SAL would be used to constitute a
revolving export development fund (EDF) to finance through short-term lending
the foreign exchange needs of exporters, and thus to ensure their access to
necessary imported inputs during a period of curtailment of import privi-
leges. The establishment of a number of such funds with similar character-
istics was being contemplated at the time which would use the bilateral
official (suppliers') credits being offered under the international rescue
package.  It was considered, however, that a Bank-supported EDF with untied
procurement would provide particular advantages. The proposal of the Govern-
ment to use all of the proceeds of the Bank loan for the establishment of an
EDF was presented to the appraisal mission at the wrap-up meeting it had with
Government officials prior to its departure.   In order to work out the
details, it was necessary to send a special post-appraisal mission.
32.      The creation of this type of fund within the context of a SAL opera-
tion is rather unique, in effect giving project content to a non-project
loan. Resource transfer in most SALs has been accomplished through financing
a pre-defined set of imports in order to achieve the objective of quick dis-
bursement,  On the other hand, the Bank has supported the creation or expan-
sion of EDFs in a number of countries through direct lending for that pur-
pose.  The speed at which the funds had been disbursed in those cases was
generally at a much slower pace than under direct import financing, being de-
pendent upon the level of demand from eligible exporters (thus in part upon
the criteria for eligibility) and the operational efficiency of the mechanism
established for processing and approving applications.  In helping to draft
the operating procedures for the fund, Bank staff sought to draw upon the ex-
periences of similar projects in this field.



III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
A.   Macro-Economic Performance
33.      The SAL was approved by the Board on June 28, 1983, was signed
shortly afterward and became effective orx August 24, 1983. The measures
which had been introduced in the latter part of 1982 and during 1983, in com-
pliance with the LTPES, the IMF stand-bys and subsequently the SAL it-lf,
led to some improvement in the macro-economic situation during 1983. The
trade deficit was further reduced, largely through a reduction in imports
leading to a surplus on current account. While total exports declined,
exports to convertible currency countries rose sharply. Measures to restrain
domestic demand, particularly curtailment of investment, led to a small
decline in total GDP. At the same time, however, inflationary tendencies
were not reduced, and the rates of increase of the retail price and cost-of-
living indices were slightly above that recorded for 1982. Economic perform-
ance in 1984 showed little change. A small expansion in exports, again
'argely to the convertible currency areas, helped increase the surplus on
current account. Thus the efforts at short-term stabilization appeared to
have eased the external imbalance but output remained stagnant while infla-
tion accelerated.
34.       In 1985, the measures which had been taken to restrain domestic
demand were loosened and there was some rise in domestic activity, largely
due to a rise in consumption, which was accompanied by a further increase in
the rate of inflation. While the current account surplus was increased, this
reflected a rise in exports to the non-convertible currency areas as the
balance with the convertible currency countries deteriorated slightly because
of a rise in imports from those countries. Total output rose 3.7% in 1986,
the largest rise since 1979, reflecting not only a continued increase in con-
sumption but also an expansion in investment for the first time in several
years. However, this was accompanied by a furtner deterioration in the
macro-economic imbalances as inflation accelerated and there was a widening
of the trade deficit.5/
35.       The situation at the beginning of 1987 presented numerous difficul-
ties. Concern with the rise in inflation and the deteriorating trend in
economic activities in the second half of 1986 prompted the authorities to
introduce a number of measures in late 1986 and early 1987.6/
5/ The Government has indicated its disagreement with this assessment; see
its comments contained in Attachment I. A fuller discussion of economic
performance in 1986 and early 1987 is contained in the recently pub-
lished economic memorandum entitled Yugoslavia: The Challenge of
Adjustment, Report No. 6353-YU, dated July 10, 1987, paras. 2.50-2.54.
6/   The views of the Government on the situation at the beginning of 1987
are also contained in its comments, Attachment I. Further details on
the measures adopted at the time are contained in Report No. 6353-YU,
op. cit, paras. 3.135-3.141.



- 10 -
B.   Compliance with SAL Conditionality
36.       The compliance of the Yugoslav authorities with the conditions of
the SAL is reviewed in detail in the PCR (paras. 13 through 30). Twenty-four
monitorable conditions have been identified, including the establishment of
the Export Development Fund. It is concluded that six of the conditions have
been met more or less as originally defined, while 11 have been only partial-
ly met, with substantial time delays in most of these instances.7/   Some
conditions were not met at the time of preparation of the PCR (June 1986)
although certain measures recently introduced by the authorities (at the end
of 1986 and early 1987) could be considered as complying with these earlier
commitments, particularly in the area of energy pricing. A fuller discussion
of compliance is undertaken in the next section which attempts to assess the
impact of the SAL.
C.   The Operations of the EDF
37.      As noted earlier, the Yugoslav SAL was unique in that the resources
to be transferred were to be used to establish a revolving export development
fund rather than to be disbursed against imports, This type of mechanism was
chosen by the Yugoslav authorities as a means to ensure that exporters would
be able to get relatively quick access to foreign currencies for their neces-
sary imports in the context of the extreme shortage of foreign exchange at
the time.   The advantage in using Bank funds was the untied nature of the
resources provided by the Bank since most of the official suppliers' credits
were tied to the sources of finance.
38.      Because of the decentralized nature of the banking system,8/ man-
agement of the various credit lines, both bilateral and multinational, was
allocated among the principal regional banks by decisions of the council of
the Yugoslav Banking Association (YBA). The Udruzena Beogradaka Banka (UBB),
one of the two associated banks in the Republic of Serbia, was chosen to
execute the Bank loan and, in conformity with the prevailing federal-republic
relationships, it became the borrower with the guarantee of the Federal
Government. However, at the insistence of the Bank, various procedures were
established to ensure to the maximum extent possible that enterprises
throughout the country would have ready access to the resources.
39.      A special unit of UBB to manage the fund was created in August 1983
and its operations began at a rather slow pace, given the time required for
setting up procedures and a slow build up in demand, given the time required
7/   The Government, in its comments on the PPAM, has indicated a number of
areas where it believes that progress has been made and also notes the
tendencies in international economic conditions which have affected
implementation; see Attachment I.
8/   A brief description of this system is provided in a Project Performance
Audit Memorandum, Yugoslavia - First Industrial Credit Project (Loans
1012/1013-YU), Report No. 5119, dated June 11, 1984.



- 11 -
to familiarize potential borrowers with the nature of the fund .  In sub-
sequent supervision missions, Bank staff assisted in streamlining the pro-
cedures in an effort to speed up approvals.9/  Bank funds were fully dis-
bursed in August 1985, some one year after the date expected in the
President's report.   However,  that expectation was clearly tunrealistic in
view of the need to create a completely new system.  Given the characteris-
tics of a revolving fund, the total value of the loans approved by EDF at the
end of October 1986 amounted to almost US$660 million, more than twice the
value of the original Bank loan.  On the assumption of an import content of
about one-third, the fund has therefore financed about US$2 billion in
exports.   While it is not possible to determine the extent of "additional"
exports provided by this mechanism, interviews with users of the fund indi-
cated that, at the least, their exports were facilitated i:hrough quick access
to the foreign exchange, particularly due to the untied nature of the Bank's
resources and the complexity of the administrative regulations which, at the
time, limited access to foreign exchange.
40.      Following the start-up period through the end of 1983, EDF approvals
rose rapidly, averaging some US$20 million per month in 1984 and somewhat
less than that during 1985 (see Table 1).  At the beginning of 1986, the new
foreign exchange control regulations. as originally elaborated, did not per-
mit this type of revolving fund and these had to be amended; as a consequence
no approvals were made in the period January through March of that year.
Table 1: EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND
SUMMARY OF APPROVALS /a
Amount
(US$ millions)
Through December 1983                               63.3
January - June 1984                                151.0
July - December 1984                               114.9
January - June 1985                                127.6
July - December 1985                                96.0
January - June 1986                                 57.0
July - October 1986                                 50.0
Total                                      659.8
/a   Including recycled funds.
Source:  EDF Unit, UBB
9/   See PCR, para. 31.  It is also noted that the original estimate of the
speed of disbursement was unrealistic.



- 12 -
41.       The prevailing institutional structure, as noted earlier, largely
dictated the decision to assign the EDF, as well as the bilateral official
suppliers credit lines, to individual republican banks whose clientele tend
to be located in the respective regions. But it was not intended to restrict
the uWe of any of these funds to existing clients of the participating
banks. The Government and the banking system make strong efforts to publi-
cize widely the availability of all of these resources and measures were also
taken to encourage inter-bank relationships to increase such use. Neverthe-
less, at the end of October 1986, some 60 percent of the EDF funds were used
by enterprises in Serbia (see Table 2 and PCR, para. 32); exports of
enterprises in that republ4c represent about 20 percent of total sales to the
convertible currency areas.
Table 2: EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND
REGIONAL PATTERN OF APPROVALS /a
(at end October 1986)
Amount         % of
(US$ millions)     Total
Serbia                                     393.9         59.7
Croatia                                     53.6           8.1
Bosnia and Herzogovina                      66.5          10.1
Macedonia                                   73.3          11.1
Slovenia                                    34.7           5.3
Montenegro                                   4.2           0.6
Vojvodina (province)                        21.4           3.3
Kosovo (province)                           12.2           1.9
Total                                   659.8        100.0
/a   Including recycled funds.
Source: EDF Unit, UBB
42.      On balance, the fund can be considered as having achieved considera-
ble success.  None of the bilateral suppliers' credits provided during 1983
and 1984 was fully utilized (see Table 3) and one-third of the total availa-
ble was actually cancelled. Exporters who were interviewed, who theoretical-
ly could have used either the EDF or one of the bilateral credits, indicated
that prices for goods financed under the latter systems tended to be higher
than under the EDF.10/
10/ The Stopanska Banka Skopje which managed a Canadian credit not included
in the group in Table 3 cancelled Can$45 million of a total of Can$50
million and reported that price differentials for the eligible products
were cited by its clients as the major factor in discouraging them from
using that fund.



- 13 -
Table 3: DISBURSEMENT OF TRADE-RELATED SUPPLIERS' CREDITS
UNDER BERNE ACCORD
(in thousands of US$)/a
Disbursed Until
Creditor Country              Granted     December 31, 1985
Austria                        54,386           51,352
Belgium                         2,017            2,006
Denmark                         3,680            2,203
Fed. Republic of Germany       95,972           72,345
France                         45,998           37,456
Italy                         198,402           55,952
Japan                           1,002            1,000
Netherlands                     9,996            7,718
Norway                         15,765            8,746
Sweden                         15,424            4,818
Spain                             222               77
Switzerland                    38,815           32,758
United Kingdom                  4,450              815
USA                           259,527          216,104
TOTALS                     745,656          493,350
/a   Statistical exchange rates ($1   185.70 din,
$1 = 2.93 DM) are used in calculating dollar amounts
of non-dollar credits.
Source: National Bank of Yugoslavia
43.       At the current time, however, EDF is encountering sharp fluctua-
tions in demand for its funds. At the end of October 1986 it had un-utilized
balances of about US$50 million and the demands for its resources had dropped
to about US$12 to US$15 million per month (see Table 1 above).   Two factors
appear to underlie that situation. In the first place the lending rate for
ED? funds has not been competitive with other short-term credit lines which
are now available to finance imports. EDP is charging to the final user two
percentage points above the Bank's lending rate in accordance with the loan
agreement. In other words, at the present time the subloans under the EDF
carry an interest rate to the final borrower of approximately 10 percent.
Foreign commercial banks have made available short-term credit lines to
finance imports at LIBOR plus from .5 to 1.5 percentage points, i.e. a total
cost currently of about 6.5 to 7 percent.
44.       Secondly, the prevailing system of foreign exchange allocation
appears to have provided adequate access to such resources for established
exporters. To the extent that they needed to borrow local currency to
purchase that exchange, domestic lending rates were much more favorable and



- 14 -
the borrowers could avoid foreign exchange rate risks.   Nevertheless, it
appears that EDF remains an important source of foreign exchange for new
exporters or those who expect to incr ase substantially their exports in the
future.
45.       At the beginning of 1987, however, ther: was a recovery in the
demand for EDF funds and approvals have been averaging some US$30 million per
month.11/  While it is not possible to analyze at this time all of the
factors involved in this development, it appears to reflect a number of
policy changes introduced at the beginning of the year. In the first place,
domestic interest rates were increased sharply, reducing the spread in favor
of borrowing local funds at the same time that the constraints in the foreign
exchange market continued to limit the availability of foreign currencies.
Moreover, enterprises who need to import equipment for their operations are
being encouraged to make use of existing credit lines to finance part of
their foreign exchange requirements.    In  1986 EDF,  with  Bank approval,
revised its lending regulations to permit financing of imported machinery by
exporting firms (see PCR, para. 31) and there appears to have been some
increased use of this facility. Finally, EDF funds which are not tied remain
attractive to potenti;;l borrowers.
46.       Perhaps the most serious problem facing the EDF is the impact of
the recent weakening in the US dollar in view of the currency pooling
arrangements for disbursing Bank loans.  The nominal value of disbursements
at the time they were made was US$275 million. With the currency relation-
ships prevailing at the beginnintg of 1987, the dollar value of UBB's obliga-
tion (the borrowers liability to the Bank) was some 45 percent higher than
the nominal value. As a consequence, the interest payment which fell due in
January 1987 was some 45 percent higher than expected and the first repayment
due at the same time was also 45 percent higher than expected ($16.7 million
as compared to $11.5 million).   With the further changes in currency rela-
tionships, UBB's obligation to the Bank at the end of May 1987 was 50 percent
higher than the nominal value of the balance of the loan, $396.7 million as
compared to $263.5 million.12/
IV. ASSESSING THE IMPACT OF THE SAL
A.   Main Elements of Adjustment
47.       The difficulties in assessing the impact of a structural aAjustment
program have been set out in the first OED overview of these operations. It
is clearly not appropriate to attempt to establish a one-to-one relationship
11/ See the comments on the draft PPAM submitted by UBB which appear as
Attachment II to this document.
12/ See also the comments of the Government, Attachment I, and of UBB,
Attachment II.



- 15 -
with macro-economic performance in either the short or long-term. Nor, given
the influence of exogenous factors as well as an imperfect knowledge of eco-
nomic relationships, would it be appropriate to suggest that substantial eco-
nomic development with both equity and growth require an inflexible adherence
to a pre-defined program.   Moreover, by definition these programs are ex-
pected to have impact in the medium-term and generally to involve more than
one operation so that definitive assessments may only be undertaken after
some lapse of time.
48.       The PCR has concluded that there has been limited adherence of
Yugoslav authorities with the action program agreed to under the SAL (para.
36).  Moreover, it observes that the recent poor macro-economic performance
reflects in great part the regression which has occurred as regards the
commitment to achieve a more open and market oriented economy.   Failure to
pursue that objec.ive is at the heart of the limited adherence to the SAL
program; preparation of a second SAL has been delayed, as discussions between
the Government and the Bank continue in relation to the scope of a possible
further operation.
49.       The main policy concerns center on the lack of more rapid progress
in moving towards positive real lending rates and in establishing an ade-
quately functioning foreign exchange market.   It is recognized that, at the
present time, the failure to exercise proper demand management, in particular
a permissive monetary management which has led to record inflation, has
reduced the possibility of taking corrective action in those two areas.  In
the broadest sense, therefore, the SAL has not achieved its fundamental
objectives.   The short-term stabilization efforts and import controls wer2
successful in reducing the external imbalances through 1984 which encouraged
the Yugoslav authorities to shift subsequently to growth-oriented policies
(see PCR, para. 11).   Because of 'he inadequate progress in achieving the
necessary structural reforms, however, the country now finds itself once more
facing serious internal and external imbalances.
50.       Neverthelees, some significant institutional changes supported by
this SAL have begun to take root, albeit slower than expected.13/   One key
element is the progress which has been achieved in increased acceptance by
institutions responsible for investment decisions of a social compact on the
evaluation of projects, with its methodology focussing on economic rates of
return.   While use of .he precise methodology has not been ratified by all
participants, particularly the institutions at republican government levels,
the banking system under the leadership of the YBA has now agreed to its
application in 1987; a number of these banks have already been using and
13/ See also the comments of the Government, Attachment I, concerning a
number of areas when progress has been made.



- 16 -
applying the methodology.L4/   If properly applied in investment decisions,
the methodology can help avoid the selection of uneconomic projects.
51.       A second major element is the progress made in developing financial
discipline.    Enterprise  self-management  is  one  of  the  most  important
principles in the Yugoslav social and political system, having evolved over
the last 35 years,   It can be expected  that modifications will require
patience and careful monitoring. While bankruptcy laws have long existed and
have recently been strengthened, it remains the case that few banks have been
willing to force such action on enterprises which are in turn their share-
holders (see PCR, paras. 27-29). Nevertheless, tegulations have been enacted
which make clear the responsibilities of the banks for curtailing financial
support to what are essentially bankrupt and unsustainable enterprises.
52.       Moreover,  accounting  standards  are now being established which
require enterprises to make more realistic estimates of costs such as
depreciation, thus limiting the capacity to record profitable operations
(hence, to generate profits for distribution) when in fact there are losses.
Along with other recent laws on income distribution, these measures introduce
important constraints on the behavior of enterprises designed to develop
financial discipline.
53.       As regards other elements of reform, the process of regional decen-
tralization has led to situations where important economies of scale in many
infrastructure areas have been ignored, in fact to actual duplication of in-
vestment. The recent law on social planning is designed to promote an inter-
republican approach to investment in such fields as electric power, transport
and gas distribution. A first attempt at elaborating a long-term integrated
development plan for electric power generation, with investment decisions to
reflect a- iptimal program, did not meet that objective and a revised draft
is now being prepared by the energy agencies.
54.       The PCR (prepared in June 1986) has noted that, overall, perhaps
the most significant advances had been recoried in the area of price
liberalization although some retrogression had occurred in early 1986 (PCR,
para.  25).    There have  been  several more  recent  developments  in  this
particular area and it is likely that further changes will occur in the next
few months. The 1987 economic program announced at the end of 1986 contained
measures with the intention to provide a more liberal price policy than
prevailing in previous legislation; a substantial reduction in the number of
items  whose  prices  are  subject  to review  by  the Federal  Price  Agency
reflected a more positive attitude towards use of the price mechanism to
14/ In particular, banks which have participated in industrial credit lines
provided by the Bank, primarily in the less developed regions, are
required to use this methodology in appraising loan requests from final
borrowers; these have been mainly small and medium sized industries.
Other banks had also become familiar with the procedures which they were
applying for their own internal reviews.



- 17 -
achieve allocative efficiency. In February 1987, measures were introduced to
limit increases in prices of individual items to the general inflation rate;
at the same time, increases in nominal wages were limited to the gains in
productivity and/or "real material possibilities .15/
55.       As regards the sectoral issues, it was noted earlier that, in most
instances (i.e., agriculture, energy and transport), the monitorable condi-
tions largely pursued policy matters which had emerged in the implementation
of on-going projects or in the preparation of projects in the pipeline. The
SAL conditions thus permitted a more intensive follow-up by the Bank based on
the accumulated experience and the working relationships which had already
been developed.
56.       In the case of industry, where there had been little prior expo-
sure, one of the principal objectives was to develop a project pipeline in
this sector and 1'e action program called for undertaking a number of
subsectoral  studies  to that end.   Limited success has been recorded  in
achieving that objective.   Some of the reluctance of the different industry
groups to participate in these studies may have stummed from their concern
over the possible implications on their operations of recommendations which
might emerge from the analyses in areas such as restructuring (PCR, para.
16).   At the same time, however, it must be recognized that many other
factors contributed to this sitiation.   In the first place, there was (and
continues to be) great reluctance on the part of enterprises to incur addi-
tional debts in foreign exchange. This pertained not only to loans for pro-
ductive purposes but also to loans to finance studies needed for preparing
projects which is required under present Yugoslav practice.   Secondly, many
enterprises had already begun to analyze measures required to improve their
efficiency.  In this connection, the institutional structure with which the
Bank had to deal, industrial chambers organized by suDsectors, was complex,
each involving a highly heterogeneous membership. It was possible to obtain
agreement for only one sub-sector as compared to the five or six that were
expected.
57.       Finally, it also appears that in some of the institutions and en-
terprises involved there were negative feelings regarding the origin of the
effort, the fact that the initiative had not come from the Yugoslav side but
rather from the Bank and that compliance was an element of conditionality
attached to the SAL. On the other hand, many of these groups did welcome the
technical inputs which the Bank was prepared to provide.
B.   The Impact of the EDF
58.       The review of the operations of the EDF presented above indicates
that overall it has achieved its objectives.   The main problems now being
faced by EDF are its uncompetitive interest rate to sub-borrowers and the
exchange losses imposed on borrowers by the recent currency realignments.
15/  See the comments of the Government, Attachment I.



- 18 -
The first problem raises questions for the Bank as to the design of such
funds; the second raises questions for the Yugoslav government as the guaran-
tor regarding the ways it can help the borrowing enterprise deal with those
risks; it should also be noted that following the recent sharp movement in
currency parities the Bank is reviewing the system with a view to helping
countries deal with this problem.
59.       On the interest rate issue, the fundamental problem is the use of
resources generated from a borrower's long-term obligation for short-term
lending operations. In tne early 1980s, when many of the EDF operations sup-
rorted by the Bank were initiated, interist rates for the type of short-term
lending for which the EDF is designed generally tended to be higher than the
rates paid for the longer term credit lines such as those provided by the
Bank which financed those funds.  In that situation, the main concern was to
ensure that the sub-borrowers did not receive a subsidy and that the EDF
rates were at least as high as comparable rates for trading operations in
international markets.   That situation was rather abnormal and the current
pattern, with long-term rates exceeding short-term rates, is a more usual
one.    As  a  consequence,  EDF  had  large  unutilized  balances  in foreign
exchange; even if the UBB had placed these resources in highly liquid
interest-earning assets (i.e. in the London Inter-Bank market), the return it
would earn would have been less than the cost of funds borrowed from the Bank
which at present is around 8%.
60.       The sharp recovery in demand for EDF resources at the beginning of
1987, reflecting mainly policy changes at the time (see para. 45), has
reduced the need for seeking other solutions for the present. Nevertheless,
it appears likely that, as more normal conditions are established in domestic
credit and foreign exchange markets, EDF will once again have difficulties in
competing with conventional commercial credit lines. One alternative to make
use of unutilized balances would be to set aside some of the funds for
longer-term lending to export-oriented industries for purposes such as
rehabilitation, modernization or de-bottlenecking; a number of the Bank-sup-
ported EDF projects contain such fixed-asset financing components. Interest
rates charged for those loans could be set at levels consistent with current
market conditions for longer-term lend1ng and could at least cover UBB's cost
of the funds involved.
61.       The workings of the currency pool arrangements for Bank disburse-
ments raise questions beyond the scope of this audit. As noted, the Bank is
currently reviewing its practices to determine the ways in which it can help
its borrowers to deal with this problem.   There is, moreover, increasing
recognition that in the past the Bank may not have sufficiently alerted its
clients to the full implications of the system and that further steps need to
be taken in the future to ensure that borrowers understand better the nature
of the risks and advantages it offers.   At the same time, however, it is
important that governments themselves undertake an analysis of the situation
so that they can also take appropriate actions.16/ This is particularly the
16/ See the comments of the Government and of UBB, Attachments I and II.



- 19 -
case with Yugoslavia where all of the Bank's loans are currently made direct-
ly to enterprises or banks with the guarantee of the Federal Government.
While from the point of view of the entire economy, losses and gains from the
operation of the system may in the long run balance out, these would, in the
absence of any countervailing policy, be randomly distributed.17/
C.   Social Issues
62.       Common to other  SAL operations  prepared at the time,  explicit
attention to social issues was not given in the preparation of the Yugoslav
SAL.  It was recognized that the adjustment process would be a painful one,
that total product was unlikely to rise more than one percent for a number of
years and that as a consequence there would be little if any increase in av-
erage per capita incomes over this period.  At the same time, the LTPES sup-
ported by the SAL stressed the longer term growth potential of the economy
and attempted to allay fears of more fundamental deterioration in living
standards.   Moreover,  Yugoslav governments have consistently argued that
their political and social system is geared towards more equitable distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth as well as of the costs of adjust-
ment; as noted in the introduction, absolute poverty is considered to have
been eliminated by the 1970s.
63.       While there are substantial differences in urban and rural incomes,
the major imbalance arises from the regional differences, between the more
developed republics of the north and the less developed of the south. It is
not clear what impact the LTPES measures could have on that distribution.
There is evidence that the policies which were adopted during the 1960s and
early 1970s, ostensibly designed to improve the regional pattern of incomes,
had little impact on the situation, although the relative deterioration which
had characterized the earlier post-war period was halted.18/
D.   Relations with the IMF
64.       Extensive exchange of information and regular consultation between
the Bank and the IMF characterized the preparation of both the standby pro-
grams beginning in 1980 and the SAL, as well as of the work involved for the
inter-governmental and commercial bank meetings which led to the internation-
al financial package of 1984.  For example, Bank staff members participated
in the IMF review missions for both the first and second years of the standby
17/  In some countries where an enterprise may be the borrower for the Bank's
loan, there may be an agreement between the government and the borrowing
agency which assigns to the former all of the risks associated with the
currency pool.
18/  See Boris  Pleskovic  and Marjan  Dolenc,  "Regional  Development  in a
Socialist, Developing and Multinational Country", in International
Regional Science Review, Vol. 7, No. 1, May 1982.



- 20 -
arrangement while an IMF staff member participated in the Bank's 1981 econom-
ic mission.  This close collaboration continued during the period of imple-
mentation of the SAL during which time Bank staff participated in a number of
IMF missions, particularly to review the foreign exchange allocation system.
65.       The policies and actions indicated in the Government's 1983 LDP
which was the basis for the SAL were considered fully consistent and comple-
mentary with the policy actions monitored by the IMF under its standby
arrangements which had originally been formulated in 1980. The main areas of
common interest between the Bank and the Fund included interest rate policy,
foreign exchange allocation, external debt monitoring and price policy. The
Fund concentrated mainly on the immediate need to resolve capital liquidity
problems through actions related to demand management, exchange rate 'olicy
and external finance.  The Bank's concern focussed on the medium-term frame-
work for growth being developed through the work of the Stabilization Commis-
s'on (see PCR, paras. 8 and 9).
E.   Relationship of SAL to the Lending Program
66.       As noted  in  para. 5, through  the  1970s and  the  early  1980s,
Yugoslavia had been among the most important clients for the Bank, with
annual lending averaging more than US$300 million in the latter years of that
period.  The approval of the SAL at the end of FY83 resulted in a lending
level for that year in excess of US$500 million. The total of approved loans
in FY84 was only slightly less (US$451 million) but a fertilizer sector loan
(US$90 million) was subsequently withdrawn when the Yugoslav authorities were
unable to complete the necessary arrangements to permit signing.
67.       Recent Bank lending to Yugoslavia has been sharply reduced; while
the FY85 level of approvals was US$292 million, that included one loan (US$35
million) which was also subsequently withdrawn.  Lending activities in FY86
and F'87 amount to one operation in each year, for US$121 million and US$90
million respectively; the first loan, approved in June 1986, was signed at
the end of February 1987, while the second was approved in March 1987.
68.       To a great extent, this situation reflects the sharp cutback in
gross domestic investment in recent years and, in particular, the reluctance
of Yugoslav enterprises, including the banking system, to take on additional
foreign liabilities under present circumstances. Most of these entities are
experiencing serious difficulties because of the impact of the devaluations
on the servicing of their current foreign debts.  Moreover, the Government
has adopted various regulations to control the growth of foreign borrowing
and difficulties for the borrowing agencies to operate within these
restrictions largel.y explain the failure to sign the two approved loans noted
in  the  previous  paragraphs  which  were  subsequently  withdrawn.    While
preparation of a second SAL is proceeding, the Bank has indicated willingness
to continue to consider a moderate level of project lending but, at the
present time, few proposals appear ready for further processing.



- 21 *
V. MAIN LESSONS LEARNED
A.   The Design of the SAL
69.       This audit has focussed on the process of developing the SAL design
and of decision making within the Bank.   A namber of these findings had
emerged in the course of implementation of this loan as well as during the
implementation of other SALs; to some extent they have already been reflected
in the efforts made to improve the design, as well as implementation pro-
cedures, of subsequent SALs. The question may be raised whether, even if the
quality of the product delivered by the Bank had been improved, would it have
been any more effective in achieving the desired results.
70.       There is little doubt that at the end of 1982 the need for major
reforir' was recognized and advocated by many individuals within the technical
circles of the Yugoslav Government and the academic community. Unfortunate-
ly, however, the Yugoslav authorities involved in elaborating the SAL program
with the Bank, as well as the Bank staff, underestimated the political diffi-
culties in implementing the main elements of the macro-economic reforms pro-
posed and the problems affecting the implementation of several elements of
the sectoral conditions.l9/
71.       As has been pointed out in the recent OED Review, there have been a
number of countries where the Bank has broached the possibility of a SAL but
no agreements could be reached due to political issues such as the high
visibility  of  the  macro-economic  conditionality.    Nevertheless,  policy
reforms were accomplished in many instances through more limited sectoral
approaches or where conditionality was "frontloaded" in more carefully
designed SAL operations.20/
72.       The content of the Yugoslav SAL, the 24 monitorable conditions, was
overly ambitious and unnecessarily complex.   The issues on which attention
was focussed covered not only the principal macro-economic areas earlier
identified21/ but also a number of sectoral problems which might have been
more effectively dealt with separately.    The SAL included  a number of
conditions which had limited operational content while, in several other
instances, the Bank had not been adequately prepared in formulating the
provisions and difficulties were encountered in their implementation.
19/ The Government has indicated its disagreement with this statement; see
Attachment I.
20/  Report No. 6409, op. cit., para. 8.41.   "Front-loading" refers to the
adoption of the agreed upon major policy reforms prior to the approval
of the SAL.
21/ See above, para. 16; these included investment planning and resource
allocation, foreign exchange allocation and external trade policies, and
price policies and enterprise decision-making.



- 22 -
Similar observations have been made about earlier SALs in the respective
audits which have been reflected in the recent OED review.
730       There was significant variation in what may be termed the opera-
tional content of the monitorable conditions.   For example, three reports
were prepared by the Government and submitted to the Bank which dealt with
the level and structure of investment in the country. liowever, neither the
extent to which these were reviewed by the Bank staff, nor what action could
have been taken by the Bank on the basis of any review, is clear. Reducing
the level of investment was essential at the time and the direct and indirect
measures taken by the Yugoslav authorities were largely successful in achiev-
ing that objective.   Nevertheless,  some investments which, under a more
rational decision-making process, may not have been considered economically
justified, continued to be implemented due to prior commitments, financial
and otherwise.
74.       The Bank's concern with both strengthening the investment decision
making process and establishing an adequate monitoring system was clearly
appropriate.  The former purpose was properly served by the efforts devoted
to formulating and implementing the Social Compact on the Economic Evaluation
of Projects; the Bank's contribution was outstanding and was welcomed by the
Yugoslav authorities.22/   As regards a monitoring system, given the decen-
tralized nature of investment decisions with control being exercised primari-
ly at the republican level, preparing these reports at the federal level
would be meaningful if the federal authorities had the power to intervene in
implementation.23/ By focusing on this aspect, the expectation was to gene-
rate reforms which would make that possible.  However, in the ensuing poli-
tical process, no changes were introduced and the main measures for the
federal government to influence both the magnitude and structure of invest-
ment remain largely of a macro-economic nature.
75.       The experience with the sectoral efforts is particularly interest-
ing, shedding light on the pre-conditions for achieving the desired objec-
tives in these areas. The project work which had been done previously in the
agricultural, energy and transport sectors had led to broad understanding
within the Bank of key issues facing those productive activities and to the
development of working relationships with the corresponding national institu-
tions.  This enabled the Bank to focus quickly on the core problems and to
22/  As  noted  earlier,  this methodology  had  been applied in appraising
subprojects financed under various industrial credit lines provided by
the Bank and officials of the participating institutions had been
trained in its application. In addition, in connection with the efforts
at seeking wider use of the methodology, EDI assisted in revising the
manual and in training other government officials.
23/  The  Government  has  indicated  its  disagreement  this  statement;  see
Attachment I.



w 23 w
take advantage of the momentum provided by the presence of the Stabilization
Commission to pursue appropriate measures in a constructive manner.24/
Links between SALs and on-going projects can thus be partic-larly beneficial.
76.       On the other hand, there had only been limited e-posure of the Bank
to the industrial sector, especially to the institution, involved, and, in
this instance, insufficient appreciation of the uniqueness of the Yugosla#
environment.   It proved difficult to achieve meaningful dialogues with the
Yugoslav counterparts on the basis of instructions from the top. This would
suggest that it is not desirable for the Bank to use SAL operations as a
means of promoting projects where it has not already accumulated a
substantial background of work (see above, para. 21).25/
77.       The experience with the one subsector study which was undertaken
(for the textile industry) underscores this point. A report dealing with the
modernization and rehabilitation needs of that industry was submitted to the
Bank at the end of 1986 and is now being reviewed for possible action.
During the initial contacts with the various subsector-related associations
which took place shortly after the signing of the SAL, the proposal for a
study  was  not  well  received.    However,  after  a period  of  substantive
interchange with the Bank, those groups became familiar with both the
technical and financial inputs which could be available to develop a sound
investment program to meet their needs. A study team was then organized and
arrangements made to pursue the work, mobilizing various resources for its
financing, including a contribution from the industry itself; it should be
noted that the problem of financing such studies had been cited as a barrier
to implementation of a number of the other studies included in the action
program which were not undertaken.
78.       At the same time it has to be emphasized that, in the larger sense
of structural adjustment, the deficiencies in the design which are noted
above are minor. The major question which must be asked is the extent of th.e
commitment of the Government to fundamental reform.  That there is need for
basic economic policy changes had been recognized by the authorities in each
of the different administrations which has been in office since the SAL was
initiated. To elaborate and implement the necessary measures requires a set
of political compromises.  In fact, all macro-economic reforms require some
element of compromise among the various domestic political forces.   The
Yugoslav situation is unique because of the extent to which these political
24/ For example, in the energy sector, the Bank was able for the first time
to deal with the problem country-wide; one result was the preparation of
a major study, Yugoslavia:  Constraints and Prospects for Restructuring
the Energy Sector, issued in 1985.
25/ The Government has indicated its disagreement with this paragraph; see
Attachment I.



- 24 -
aspects have been institutionalized.   As a consequence, it can be expected
that the pace of the reforms which are needed to improve economic performance
will be slow.26/
79.       The record has been one of rather irregular progress in achieving
reform. By their nature these compromises can only be reached through highly
visible and open transactions among the parties concerned,  It is not unrea-
sonable to ask whether that process has been helped or hindered by the
appearance of external intervention.   If, on hindsight,  there is general
agreement that the political difficulties facing the Yugoslav SAL were
severely underestimated, it must be recognized that, in cases where this
approach is proposed, these aspects must be more thoroughly analyzed in
preparing SALs and the possibility that the effect may be counterproductive,
not only as regards the operation at h&nd but perhaps more importantly future
relations, must be a consideration in reviewing alternative scenarios.
80.       By definition a SAL program is devoted to seeking solutions to me-
dium term development problems and can be considered complementary to stabil-
ization programs, for example those supported by the IMF. One characteristic
of this Yugoslav SAL was that the resources made available, at least for the
first of what was considered to be a series of operations, were deemed neces-
sary to fill out a large financial assistance package designed to meet imme-
diate needs. Had this pressure to complete the operation quickly no- exist-
ed, and had some other lending form been available to effect the resource
transfer, the complexity of the political situation might have been explored
in more detail and a more realistic assessment could have been made of the
prospects.
81.       At times the quality of the "dialogue" which took place on the SAL
during implementation appears to have deteriorated and could not be
eharacterized as "constructive", with officials in both the Bank and the
Government demonstrating great frustration in reviewing the progress made or
not made in meeting the many commitments under the loan. The concern is not
the degree of discomfort experienced by the two parties but rather the extent
to which time and effort was spent on admittedly secondary issues (such as
those in the trade and industry areas), detracting from the efforts needed to
deal with those issues which were clearly of highest priority primarily in
the macro-economic areas (see para. 72). In addition, given the longer term
benefits which accrue to the Yugoslav economy from Bank assistance, both
financial and technical, which is frankly recognized by those officials,
there is a danger that prospects for a more positive future dialogue may have
been reduced.27/
26/ See the comments of the Government on content and design of SALs,
Attachment 1.
27/ The Government has indicated its disagreement with the content of this
paragraph; see Attachment I.



- 25 -
82.       It is clear that the adjustment process in Yugoslavia has not ended
and it is likely that the pace of reform will continue to be at a speed con-
siderably slower than originally expected.  Moreover, it now appears likely
that there will be need for additional resource transfers to Yugoslavia in
the immediate future.  The Bank could play n role in helping to provide fur-
ther support. With hindsight, Yugoslavia was not at the time an appropriate
candidate for a SAL; while the need for reform was widely accepted, the
process was likely to require considerable time for implementation given the
political complexity.   Is there now a basis for considering non-project
lending to Yugoslavia in the future?   The lesson from this experience sug-
gests that, at the least, it would have to be substantially front-loaded.28/
B.   The Operations of thie EDF
83.       The resource transfer mechanism selected for the Yugoslav SAL, the
EDF, has lent itself to a separate evaluation since this type of project has
been supported by the Bank in a number of countries in "free standing" form.
In the analysis, however, the uniqueness of the Yugoslav banking structure
must be taken into account in deriving generalizations for wider applica-
tion. The major structural problem now facing UBB, the need to deal with the
impact of the currency pool disbursement procedure which has increased by 40%
the nominal dollar value of its liability to the Bank, has already been dis-
cussed (see para. 61).
84.       As regards the basic design of the EDF, the original concept was to
establish a permanent lending facility29/ which would be able to continue
eNen after it began repaying the Bank loain. To that end, an incentive scheme
was developed to encourage users to surrender foreign exchange over and above
that required to service their subloans.   However, with the change in the
foreign exchange allocation system at the beginning of 1986, the scheme was
no longer permitted.   While operative, it led to the mobilization of US$25
million.
85.       The demand for EDF funds remains highly volatile,   Under current
conditions of foreign exchange allocation, the fund apparently remains a use-
ful source of currencies for new exporters or for those planning to expand
substantially these sales who might otherwise have difficulty in getting
access to the full amount of imported inputs they may require.   For thi.s
facility, borrowers are currently paying a high price, especially considering
the riskiness of some new export ventures.   Given the objective of the
Government to move towards a more open foreign exchange market, it is likely
that the number of such clients will be reduced. EDF will, as a consequence,
28/ See the comments of the Government on this paragraph, Attachment I.
Discussions between the Bank and the Government continue in relation to
the scope of a possible SAL II operation.
29/ According to the President's Report, "...possibly, to become over time
the nucleus of a foreign exchange market.,,", see Report No. P-3606-YU,
op. cit., para. 80.



- 26 -
only be able to survive as a source of short-term working capital if it is
able to compete with the other short-term credit lines available. This would
involve at present a substantial cut in its lending rate to levels below its
own cost of funds.  As suggested earlier, there is also the possibility of
shifting some of the resources to fixed asset financing implying a reduction
in the revolving fund character of its operations but at the same time per-
mitting it to charge interest rates closer to its own borrowing rate. EDF is
already providing some fitnancing of imported equipment as a result of changes
introduced in its lending regulations at a time (1986) when the demand for
funds for imported inputs had declined (see para. 60).
86.       The possibility of changes in the interest rate structure had been
recognized in a policy paper dealing with EDF lending prepared by the Bank
and presented to the Board in September 1983.30/  In that paper it was noted
that the need for short-term financing funds such as EDF, which are based on
long-term borrowing, was likely to be temporary once domestic measures were
taken to improve foreign exchange markets and normal commercial banking
sources would resume lending.
87,       This experience also brings out the possible usefulness of post-
completion supervision, particularly in these instances where the objective
was to create a more permanent institution and where operating conditions
were subject to Bank covenants and could only be changed with the agreement
of the Bank.  Bank supervision missions have not visited UBB since mid-1985
before these problems began to emerge in such a dramatic fashion.   In this
connection, it must also be noted that supervision of this part of the SAL
was rather limited after the initial months of operations and it appears
desirable that the Bank review its procedures for allocating staff for the
supervision of projects which cut across organizational lines.
88.       The original intention of the Government supported by the Bank was
to create a mechanism which would help to finance import needs of exporters
throughout the country and considerable effort was devoted by UBB and the
Yugoslav authorities to pursue that objective. Nevertheless, the character-
istics of the banking business as well as the uniqueness of the domestic
banking system permitted only partial achievement of that goal.   As shown
earlier, a disproportionately high share of EDF operations was located in
Serbia which is the region principally served by UBB.
89.       This result is similar to the Bank's experience with other projects
involving financial intermediaries. Domestic commercial banks develop close
relationships with their client-borrowers which play an important role in
determining the extent to which direct credit lines provided to individual
banks (by the World Bank or other international financial institutions) will
be used.   For this reason, as well as for more general policy reasons, the
Bank has increasingly turned to second-tier or apex lending institutions
which do not undertake direct lending but rather channel resources through
the entire domestic banking svstem.
30/ See Document R83-295, dated September 21, 1983, entitled, Bank Lending
for Export Development Funds.



- 27 -
90.       While the structure of the Yugoslav banking system limited the pos-
sibility of a second-tier approach, the issue was not examined since the Bank
did not focus on the transfer mechanism in the preparatory stage of the SAL.
To facilitate quick processing of the loan, the Bank accepted the proposal
made by the Yugoslav authorities to leave to the YBA the decision on the
executing agency. For example, it might have been possible to have used the
Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC or YUBMES) which
was established in the 1970s to deal with trade matters and thus less subject
to competitive rivalries than any of the regional banks.31/
91.       Virtually all future SAL lending in other countries can be expected
to continue to rely on more direct import financing. Nevertheless, this ex-
perience highlights the importance of focussing on the mechanism for resource
transfer as early as possible ill the preparation stages.   In the case of
Yugoslavia, should there be a resumption in non-project lending, the issue is
even more urgent.
31/ Special arrangements, however, were made to include YUBMES as a
participating bank and particularly favorable terms were provided to its
clients which are mainly capital goods exporters who have special
working capital credit needs due to the long production periods for
those items.



- - V



- 29 -
YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Lan No. 2326-YU)
COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The first SAL to the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, a loan
of US$275 million, was approved by the Bank's Board on June 28, 1983 and
signed on July 7, 1983. The loan completed a wider international effort to
help Yugoslavia--involving both commercial and government creditors--resulting
in a financial assistance package of fresh money and rescheduling of debt,
totalling about US$6.5 billion. The package, put together by the IMF, was
intended to ease Yugoslavia's growing foreign exchange liquidity problems (in
early 1983 reserves stood at only $1.7 billion, a month's imports from the
convertible area). Indeed, the commercial banks saw the SAL agreement as an
affirmation of Yugoslavia's commitment to medium-term economic reform, and the
prospect of an eventual SAL was an important factor in the decision of
creditors to provide financial support. Conversely, the prospect and need for
a financial package was an important element in accelerating the speed with
which the SAL program was concluded and approved by the Bank. The decision to
proceed with the SAL also reflected a shift in Bank lending policy in
Yugoslavia, from a focus on the less developed Republics and Provinces (RAPs),
to helping improve the productivity and competitiveness of the national
economy as a whole.
2.       The SAL, which was made in support of the Government's Long-Term
Program of Economic Stabilization (LTPES), consisted of a specific program of
structural adjustment, policy and institutional measures described in a Letter
of Development Policy (LDP) to the Bank dated May 25, 1983 (copy attached as
Annex I). At the outset, the Government and the Bank viewed the structural
adjustment program as a long-term series of policy adjustments to be supported
by successive SALs, assuming successful implementation of the existing program
(as stated in para. 77 of the President's Report). Indeed, the President's
Report suggested that a second SAL should sharpen the sectoral focus provided
by sector studies supported under the first SAL, in energy, industry and
agriculture.
3.       The SAL's  principal intent was to start a process to improve
resource allocation in Yugoslavia. At the same time, SAL was to finance an
expansion of Yugoslavia's exports to the convertible currency area so as to
alleviate its acute foreign exchange shortage. The proceeds of the loan were
on-lent as subloans to eligible Yugoslav exporting enterprises, through an
Export Development Fund (EDF), for financing the import of essential inputs,
thereby removing a bottleneck to the expansion of exports.
II. BACKGROUND
4.       Although Yugoslavia was able to maintain rapid rates of growth (14.62
in 1974) and employment during the 1970's, this was achieved through a massive
investment program (from 1972-1980 the gross fixed investment to GSP ratio
averaged about 34X), responding to a distorted set of incentives (including an
appreciating exchange rate and high levels of protection through non-tariff



- 30 -
barriers). This led to deteriorating efficiency and international
competitiveness. A highly decentralized system for investment decisions,
combined with distorted prices, negative real interest rates, a lack of
financial discipline, and little inter-regional resource mobility, resulted in
poor investments and duplication of capacities from one region to the next.
The volume of investment exceeded national savings by a wide margin,
contributing to a widening current account gap. This was financed by large
volumes of foreign borrowing which allowed the exchange rate to appreciate in
real terms. The result of such deficiencies, combined with the oil price
shock of 1979, was a record $3.7 billion balance of payments current account
deficit in 1979, or about 6% of GSP.
5.       This deficit, the subsequent interest rate shock, recession of the
world economy and the growing realization that the rapid economic growth of
the previous decade was unsustainable, prompted the Government in 1980 to
introduce a series of stabilization measures to bring the balance of payments
under control. These included attempts at restrictive monetary and fiscal
policies to curb domestic demand, a more active use of exchange rate policy to
encourage exports and strong administrative measures to reduce imports in line
with foreign exchange availability. While Yugoslavia succeeded in
significantly reducing its current account deficit in 1981 and 1982, its
external liquidity remained tight, and commercial borrowers remained reluctant
to increase or to maintain their exposure.
6.       In March 1981, Yugoslavia put into effect its 1981-85 Plan.  It soon
became apparent, however, that the Plan targets, though modest by earlier
standards, were unattainable given the severity of the liquidity crisis, and
fundamental policy adjustments would be necessary over the medium- and
long-term to achieve sustained economic growth . As a result, in July 1981 a
high level advisory body called the Commission of Economic Stabilization was
established to formulate a medium-term strategy for a return to sustained
growth. Their report, the Long-Term Program of Economic Stabilization (LTPES)
was issued and adopted as the Government's policy-action framework in July
1983. Its major elements, however, had been made known to the Bank much
earlier as a result of internal Yugoslav discussion of the program and as a
result of discussion with the Government of the Bank's economic report,
Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (No. 3954-YU
dated November 2, 1982).
7.       To overcome Yugoslavia's structural deficiencies, the LTPES proposed
creation of a more open economy, an export led growth strategy, and a greater
role for the market in the allocation of resources within the economy. This
orientation was generally in line with positions advocated by the Bank in its
economic and sector work t.uring the preceding years.
The Structural Adjustment Program and Loan
8.       In late December 1982, the Government requested the Bank to urgently
consider a SAL to Yugoslavia in support of its adjustment efforts. These were
also supported by three IMF standbys covering the 1983-86 period and by
agreements with official and commercial creditors in refinancing packages
since 1983. Because of the Bank's earlier exposure to the LTPES, the LDP
already reflected the outcome of the Stabilization Commission's report, albeit
narrower in scope, and was fully consistent with and complementary to the



- 31 -
policy actions being monitored by the IMF under its standbys. In late 1982,
Bank representatives were also invited to attend meetings of an
inter-governmental group held under Swiss government auspices, and a
commercial bankers group under IMF auspices. The meetings were to agree on a
program of assistance to Yugoslavia, and to establish a coordinated approach
among Yugoslavia's international donors in an effort to strengthen
Yugoslavia's capital account position. Following these meetings and the
Yugoslav request, an exploratory SAL mission visited Yugoslavia in January
1983. Bank and Fund staff collaborated closely in the preparation of the SAL
(and standby). Bank staff participated in the review missions for the first
and second years of the standby and ar. IMF staff member participated in the
Bank's economic mission that provided the background to the formulation of the
SAL I supported program. The loan was appraised in February/March 1983, and a
postappraisal took place in April. The SAL was approved by the Board on
June 28, 1983, only six months after the Government's official request.
9.       The policy undertakings in the LDP were consistent with and intended
to complement the policy actions being monitored by the IMF under its standby
arrangements, with the Fund concentrating more on the immediate need to
resolve external liquidity problems through demand management, including the
exchange rate and external financing actions, and the Bank concerning itself
with a "medium-term framework" for increased efficiency in resource allocation
which emerged through the work of the Stabilization Commission and intended
Plan revisions. Not only was the Bank's concern reflected in the SAL but also
in an intended shift to other policy-based lending which included a fertilizer
sector loan in 1984 and prospects of future sector lending. The principal
areas of common interest to the Fund and the Bank were in (i) interest rate
policy; (ii) foreign exchange allocation; (iii) external debt monitoring; and
(iv) price policy. With regard to interest rate policy, the IMF arrangement
included an undertaking by the Government to review with the IMF the level of
deposit interest rates if the annualized rate of inflation were to exceed 20O
in the first halt of 1983. Under the 1984 standby arrangement with the IMF,
it was also agreed that by April 1, 1985, interest rates on three-month
deposits would reach 1% in real terms. It provided for a steady adjustment
(2% in real terms per month) of the exchange rate in 1983 to encourage
exports. These measures were reinforced by understandings under the SAL
covering floor lending interest rates and the creation of the Export
Development Fund (EDF), as well as support for the exchange rate policy. In
addition, the SAL included a substantial institution building component to
strengthen the design and monitoring of investment projects, as well as a
phased program to improve the operations of the foreign trade and payments
regime. In the area of price policy, the IMF and the Bank were in general
agreement on the direction of price liberalization and changes in relative
prices as well as the need for an increase in the price of electricity, coal,
meat, as well as railway fares, all of which were adjusted in collaboration
with the Fund in 1983. The SAL pricing framework on energy, transport and
agricult-re pricing, were intended to reinforce these measures.
10.      The SAL was disbursed in two tranches of $175 million (upon loan
effectiveness), and $100 million. The original intention, as stated in the
President's Report, was to have the second tranche released upon satisfactory
review of progress with the Government of the specific release conditions
listed in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement (attached as Annex II). A
first review in October 1983 concluded that inadequate progress had been



- 32 -
made. As a result tranche release was delayed by about ten months to August
1984. After another review mission in June 1984, tranche release approval was
given on August 23, 1984. The Bank staff recognized that progress had been
slow in meeting specific tranche release conditions, i.e. (i) establishing a
program for energy conservation studies--to have been supported by a technical
assistance loan; (ii) the 'conclusion' of a "social compact on the social and
economic justification of intended investment projects" amongst Yugoslav banks
and planning institutes; (iii) improving foreign exchange mobility through
improvemcnts in the foreign exchange allocation system. However, Bank staff
concluded that given substantial progress, at that time, in the areas of
interest rates, exchange rate adjustment, pricing and financial discipline,
overall performance justified release of the second tranche.
11.      Although, as originally planned, the period within which SAL
disbursements were to have taken place was too short to allow for any
substantial improvement in overall economic performance, the lengthy delay in
tranche release did reveal certain developments in the economy's performance
which influenced the Government's application of SAL conditions after the
tranche release. Specifically, in 1983 and 1984 Yugoslavia continued to
improve its balance of payments position, registering surpluses in its current
account. Under its standby agreement with the Fund, a major realignment of
the real exchange rate took place in 1983 with a real depreciation of 26%, and
Fund reports at the time acknowledged the Government's positive external
adjustment performance under the standby. Despite the Government's attempts
at restraint on expenditure and tighter demand management, however, inflation
accelerated precipitously in the second half of 1983 resulting in a 55%
increase for the year as a whole. The surplus in the convertible current
account of the BOP rose to $779 million in 1984, while inflation remained
around 53%. Ironically, the positive developments in the current account
balance, doubLlessly served to ease the pressure felt by the Government to
take the additional tough measures called for under the SAL, while the
acceleration of inflation increased resistance to measures that were regarded
as fueling inflation through cost push.
12.      The internal debate between those supporting the SAL program and
those who either opposed it or advocated alternative reforms, given the
program's perceived costs, proved to be more contentious than anticipated.
This was especially so in relation to the reforms of (a) the foreign exchange
allocation system where differences emerged which essentially pitted the
northern "exporting" republics against the southern "importing" republics,
(b) the trade regime and (c) interest rates. In both the latter cases,
Yugoslavia's largely protected and highly leveraged enterprises were not
prepared to go as far in reform as the SAL program called for, and in the weak
federal structure of Yugoslavia, the Federal Government was not in a position
to require them to do so.



- 33 -
III.  PROGRESS IN AREAS MONITORED UNDER THE SAL PROGRAM 1/
A. Investment Policy and Resource Allocation
13.     A major objective of the SAL I was to support measures to improve the
quality of the country's investment program through appropriate price
incentives and strengthened design and monitoring of major investment
projects. Although there is evidence that the reduction of fixed investment
in the period 1983, 1984 and 1985 (by about 10% from 1983 to 1984 and 1984 to
1985) reflected a more careful screening of investment projects, there was no
discernable shift in investment to priority sectors. Rather, cuts were
implemented uniformly across the board. Three investment reports, intended to
help monitor the quality of investments being undertaken, were submitted to
and reviewed by the Bank, the first in September 1983 covering developments
through March 1983, the second in March 1984, and the third in November 1985.
Though the quality of the first report was sufficiently comprehensive to
justify release of the second tranche, and the second report was in some
respects an improvement over the first, the third report deteriorated in
quality and contained little information on the larger investments (over
Din.750 million) while the definition of priority sectors was so broad as to
blur meaningful identification of priorities for the 1984-85 period. Although
a core investment program in energy for 1983-1985 (including a commitment to
ensure priority access to finance for "core projects") was submitted to the
Bank for review (fulfilling one of the tranche release conditions) and was
largely implemented (since it consisted predominantly of investments already
well advanced in implementation), to date it has not resulted in any lasting
system for ensuring rational and least-cost energy investments for the country
as a whole. Moreover, it did not preclude investments excluded from the core
program. On the other hand, the current Law on Planning does require the
preparation of a "Joint Development Plan" in power, which is an attempt to
establish a nationwide program for the sector. The JDP has suffered major
delays. It is now expected to be finalized by end 1986.
14.     At the same time, to ensure the use of uniform, rational economic
criteria for investment selection in all sectors nationally, a "Social Compact
on the Criteria for and Manner of Rendering Opinions on the Social and
Economic Justification of Preferred Investment Projects" was to have been
prepared by July 1983 as a tranche release condition. Due to the complexity
of the Yugoslav self-managed system and the time needed to achieve consensus
within it, however, the Compact was not finally approved until late summer
1985 (although we had been led to believe by Government authorities that lower
level approval of an earlier draft in July 1984 constituted final approval).
Although the Yugoslav Bankers Association appear to be firmly committed to
application of the compact (a manual has been prepared, and planning for a
first training seminar has recently been completed with EDI assistance), it is
unlikely that the new procedures will be fully implemented before 1987. On
the other haod, a new banking law, effective in January 1986, does require
banks to prepare economic analyses (without defining the methodology) of all
investment projects for which loans are sought, and holds the banks
1/ A complete list of policy undertakings described in the SAL President's
Report is attached as Annex III.



- 34 -
accountable for bad loans. If properly implemented, the law, combined with
the compact, would be a significant step towards rationalizing investment
financing by banks (constituting about 402 of all investment financing) in
Yugoslavia.
15.      The SAL also sought to rationalize investments through the use of
realistic capital pricing through gradual movement towards real positive floor
lending interest rates. This undertaking was implemented in conjunction with
an agreement under the Fund Standby of 1984 which, combined with the SAL
undertaking, resulted in all Yugoslav banks in early 1984 signing a
Self-Management Agreement (SMA) which called for three-month depo'it rate- to
be adjusted to positive real levels by April 1985, and for bank   oor lending
rates to be adjusted to positive real levels by (i) 1986 for "noneconomic
sectors"; (ii) 1987 for "economic sectors"; and (iii) 1989 for high priority
sectors to which continued subsidization of credit was considered essential to
increased production. The undertaking was also complemented by specific
agreements reached in four agricultural and one IDF project financed by the
Bank, on achieving positive real on-lending interest rates. Although there
was some delay in making the initial adjustments on the deposit rates, by and
large the adjustments were made through 1984 and 1985, with, for example,
rates on three month deposits briefly reaching positive real levels in
mid--1984 and again in early 1985. On the lending side, adjustments were
generally made in the floor rates until late 1985, and in mid 1985 che rate
came close to positive real levels. Beginning in 1986 however, real rates
grew increasingly negative. There were problems both in the interest rate
formula and in the Government's commitment to achieving positive real lending
rates in the face of rising inflation. Implicit in the lending interest rate
adjustment formula, agreed to in the LDP, was an assumption that inflation
would decline. Instead, it accelerated, eroding the movement towards positive
real interest rates. Moreover, the Government was reluctant to increase
interest rates out of concern that this would fuel inflation (through
cost-push). As a result, during the first quarter of 1986, less than 32 of
new credits carried a positive real rate of interest. In July 1986, the SAL
formula was unilaterally abandoned by the Yugoslav authorities and nominal
lending rates were reduced substantially.
16.      As a more direct means of restructuring, it was also agreed in the
LDP to undertake a program of studies in selected industrial subsectors which
would identify ways in which to restructure priority subsectors and improve
industrial energy efficiency to increase productivity, reduce energy imports
and promote competitiveness of industrial exports. Of these, only a report on
the textile industry has recently been completed by the textile association.
After the study is reviewed by the Bank and discussions are held with the
Yugoslav authorities on sector improvement measures, it could provide a baris
for identifying a future textile restructuring project. As for the other
sectors identified, namely steel, cement, metals and chemicals, a strategy
paper for the steel industry was received and reviewed by the Bank, but was
not adequate for purposes of identification of subsector reforms and
modernization. No studies for the other subsectors have yet been submitted to
the Bank, although indications have been given by the authorities that they
expect to submit these to the Bank before the end of 1986.  Though the
Government appeared to be committed to undertaking the studies at the time of
appraisal, an insufficient appreciation by the Federal Government and the Bank
of the reluctance of some industries to participate (knowing that austerity,



- 35 -
rehabilitation or bankruptcy might be a consequence), as well as of the
complexities of decision-making in the Yugoslav system, have prevented the
studies and their implementation from being carried out.
17.      Finally, in an effort to improve the financial planning of banks, it
was agreed, as a condition of tranche release, that investment plans would be
prepared on the basis of current prices, with assumptions on inflation and
exchange rate adjustments to be provided by the Federal Institute for Social
Planning. It was subsequently agreed that the banks would use their own
assumptions. Although at the time of tranche release, the authorities
confirmed to the Bank that Yugoslav banks were consistently employing current
prices in their investment planning, recent indications are that, as a result
of their inability to accurately predict inflation and the possibility that
such projections might prove to be self-fulfilling, only one or two banks are
regularly applying current prices in their investment planning. This
continued use of constant prices in Yugoslavia's highly inflationary
environment makes the analyses and projections by banks and enterprises
mLsleading as measures of expected profitability, particularly where foreign
exchange transactions are concerned.
B. Foreign Exchange and External Trade
18.      As a means of ensuring the external competitiveness of Yugoslav
production, and in contrast to the past policy of minimal adiustments in
exchange rates, the Government, under the terms of its standby with the Fund,
from late 1982 pursued a policy of continued adjustments. Following the real
effective depreciation of 1983 (see para. 11), the real value of the dinar was
maintained against the currencies of its major trading partners. This policy,
along with sharp cuts of imports, was instrumental in turning around the
current account of the balance of payments. In 1986, however, in spite of
adjustments in the exchange rate, the new foreign exchange regime which did
away with parallel market transactions led to an effective appreciation of the
real exchange rate thereby eroding Yugoslavia's ability to compete more
effectively in the international market place.
19.      Complementary to the flexible exchange rate policy, it was also
agreed that, as a tranche release condition, a report be submitted to the Bank
and the Fund, recommending measures to improve foreign exchange mobility
nationally. It was understood that the measures would include the
reactivation of an effective foreign exchange market. The report was received
in December 1983 and a number of its measures were implemented in 1984 leading
to some increase in the circulation of foreign exchange. This was essentially
organized around a more centralized allocation system designed to ensure the
availability of foreign exchange for priority imports and foreign exchange
payments. Subsequently in January 1986, the current system was introduced
requiring 100% surrender by exporters to the NBY. Though this system favors
access to foreign exchange for eligible transactions regardless of whether
enterprises are net exporters, and is seen by the Government as a transitional
step to establishing a convertible currency, the system appears to have
exacerbated problems by eliminating important incentives t3 exporters existing
under the previous system (possibility of net exporters being allowed to earn
premia from the parallel "sale" of foreign exchange to other enterprises), and
by introducing an even more administered system for the allocation of foreign
exchange.



- 36 -
20.      With respect to the monitoring of foreign borrowing and debt, a
computerized system for debt reporting was put in place in late 1983 thereby
formally meeting the SAL undertaking. Though Yugoslavia was current for some
time following adoption of the system, the full debt information available to
the Bank now dates back to August 1985, and despite a Bank debt mission in
November 1985, Yugoslavia is once again delinquent in its debt reporting.
21.       In the area of foreign trade, a report was submitted to the Bank in
December 1983 on ways in which to improve Yugoslavia's infrastructure for
export marketing. Flaws in export incentive schemes (relating to border
trade, long-term cooperation agreements) led in 1984 and 1985 to increased
counter-trade operations and prevented a foreign exchange market from
emerging. The recommendations of the study, which fell well short of
expectations, were not, however, seriously considered for subsequent
implementation, with the exception of a few measures to reduce counter-trade.
Similarly, although terms of reference were agreed to, a proposed study of
effective protection, to have shown the effect of trade and payment
restrictions on the domestic price structure and resource allocation, was
never done. Though the study was considered a high priority by federal
officials at the time the SAL was prepared, it would appear that strong vested
regional interests were concerned that such a study would lead to erosion of
protective barriers under which they have operated in the past. Although
alternative studies were to have been done and provided to the Bank by
Government, neither the studies nor their terms af reference were ever
submitted. Without these studies, efforts to design reforms for the trade
regime were constrained.
C. Price Policy
22.      A major objective of the LTPES has beern to increase the role of world
market prices and domestic market forces in price formation, so as to provide
to producers the right signals for efficient production. With the "Social
Compact on Price Policy" of 1983, Yugoslavia embarked on a policy of
progressive reduction of the number of commodities subject to price ceilings.
The SAL program supported a liberalized price regime and in conjunction with
the Fund Standby, identified a number of specific commodities and services for
which prices were to be adjusted (petroleum products, natural gas, lignite,
coal, electricity, railway tariffs and road user charges).
23.      With respect to petroleum products and derivatives, price adjustments
called for under the Standby have been made twice yearly as agreed.
Similarly, adjustments to the domestic gas price agreed to under SAL and the
Petroleum Sector Loan (2585-YU, June 22, 1985) have also been adjusted in line
with the agreements, and are currently about 90% of the border price. The
drop in crude oil prices and gas pricing arrangements with the Soviet Union
have made this possible despite high inflation. The same cannot be said,
however, for coal and lignite prices where little progress has been made on
price adjustments or on establishing an economic methodology for pricing. As
for electricity, adjustments havA taken place, and, as a result, the average
tariff increased from about 501 of estimated economic cost in 1983 to about
70% in mid-1986. Although unlikely to reach its economic cost by the original
target of 1987 (as agreed under the SAL and the Power III project--Loan
2338-YU* July 26, 1983), the latest social plan calls for meeting the target
by December 198b. The study to establish a pricing methodology for



- 37 -
electricity based on the long-run marginal cost has not been submitted to the
Bank; instead, a methodology based on so-called "common elements" was recently
provided to the Bank and is being reviewed. How these "elements" will be
utilized to implement the covenant under the third Power Project, and the
undertaking in the SAL LDP, however, is not yet clear.
24.      As for the transport sector, railway tariffs have been adjusted in
accordance with the SAL and the Sixth Railway Loan (2336-YU, July 19, 1983)
agreements, and compensation payments to the railway organizations are being
steadily reduced. As for road user charges, adjustments have been more
sporadic, and have not fully matched the inflation rate. Arrangements for the
future adjustment of road user charges have been strengthened by the Highways
Sector Loan approved in June 1986.
25.      On the whole, formal Yugoslav performance with respect to the pricing
undertakings was largely in line with the SAL, though characterized by a stop
and go application of policy. Most recently, however, there have been
reverses in a number of areas. A short-lived price freeze was applied between
December 1983 and May 1984, while a new pricing law intended to substantially
reduce the proportion of administered prices was put into effect in January
1985. Assurances were also given to the most recent IMF mission (June 1986)
that controls would not be reimposed, and that measures taken in January and
April of 1986--which raised the share of industrial production on the
"uncontrolled list" up to 42.5Z--represent the Government's established
policy. Notwithstanding these assurances, the Government felt there was a
need to break what it perceived as the prevaleat inflationary psychology and
to this end, effective July 1, 1986, products which previously required 30
days advance notification (about 382 of the industrial producer price index)
now require a 120-day notification period. In addition, there have been
suggestions by some Yugoslav authorities that selected price controls might
have to be reimposed if inflat4 ' continues to escalate.
26.      Despite the progress made to date in liberalizing prices, these
recent retreats in price policy, along with a weakening in other policy areas,
e.g., monetary, credit, and personal incomes, suggest an indecisiveness and a
lack of conviction on the part of the authorities of the critical importance
of macroeconomic policies in dealing with their current stabilization
problems, especially inflation.
D. Financial Discipline
27.      A critical element in the successful implementation of structural
adjustment irn the Yugoslav system is increasing the financial accountability
and discipline of enterprises and banks. This is also a most sensitive
development since it touches the concepts of equity and interdependence which
have provided the underlay for Yugoslavia's system of socialism. Yet the
LTPES recognized that excessive enterprise losses could not continue to be
supported by society as a whole, and that enterprise rehabilitation and
positive returns were essential. As a result, the LDP expressed a commitment
to amend the law regulating the behavior of loss-making enterprises to
regulate the personal income payments paid by such enterprises, and to
increase the automaticity of bankruptcy regulations. Targets were also set to
reduce inter-enterprise credit in nominal terms and to limit the nominal value
of social funds available to cover enterprise losses. These provisions under



- 38 -
the SAL were, in addition, complemented by the Fund's 1984 Standby, under
which it was agreed that personal income payments in loss-making enterprises
would be restricted, and that payments from Joint Reserve Funds to loss-making
enterprises would be substantially reduced and eventually eliminated.
28.      The amendments to the laws regulating personal income payments and
bankruptcy were passed, though not put into effect as soon as intended, and
because of consistently negative real deposit rates paid by the banking
system, the target for limiting inter-enterprise credit was not met. Though
the intent by Government to see these laws implemented appears to have been
serious, implementation has lagged and been uneven. Self-management and the
fragmentation of the Yugoslav financial market have made it difficult to apply
the new laws systematically.
29.      The effects of the measures to limit the amount of personal income
payments in loss making enterprises are as yet uncertain, and given the
obstacles to labor mobility and the prevailing tendency of banks to cover
enterprise losses, the measures could have negative effects by enabling
loss-making enterprises to survive at low levels of productivity (which is
better than at low productivity and high pay). On the other hand, with
respect to limiting the accessibility to capital of loss-making enterprises,
recent information suggests that the measures taken appear to have had some
impact, with a shift away from coverage of losses by nonreimbursable funds to
coverage through rehabilitation credits. In addition, although not strictly a
part of the SAL I program, positive changes were made in the enterprise
accounting conventions to better reflect the actual financial condition of
enterprises and banks, and a new banking law was passed intended to promote
greater financial discipline and prudence in bat.king. The intentions -.or
reform appear to be present in these cha,ges.  As in the past, however,
probably due to the fragmentation of the system, the central issues of
implementation and a regulatory framework (especially for the banking system)
have not been addressed, leaving serious doubts as to the impact of these new
laws.
E. Sector Reviews
30.      As agreed under the LDP, after considerable delay and discussion on
their scope, a set of action programs for each branch if agro-industry, was
submitted to the Bank. The programs, narrowly focusing on the issue of the
imbalance between production capacity and raw material availability, proved to
be of poor quality and too limited for meaningful application by the
industries concerned, although reviews by the Bank in a number of
Bank-financed projects have provided an alternative for formulating typical
action programs. In addition, after even greater delay, a study of primarv
production in agriculture was submitted to the Bank in November 1985 and
though its recommendations were limited in scope, it has been useful as a
source of information and data for the Bank's recently completed Agricultural
Sector Memo which is to be discussed with the Government.



- 39 -
IV.. LC.JN ADMINISTRATION
F. EDF Operations
31.      The $275 million SAL was fully disbursed in July 1985.  The Export
Development Fund (EDF) through which the loan was disbursed became operational
in August 1983, ard the second tranche was disbursed in August 1985. At the
outset EDF operations were slow, largely due to cumbersome requirements (the
need for excessive documentation by exporters) by the borrower, Udruzena
Beogradska Bank (UBB) and by the Yugoslav Bankers Association (YBA), and a
lack of familiarity with the new subloan requirements. Once exporters had
familiarized themselves with the procedures, which at the Bank's
recommendation were streamlined, EDF disbursements accelerated rapidly.
Nevertheless, the initial estimates of fully disbursing the first tranche by
December 1983, and the entire SAL by June 30, 1984, were unrealistic.
Subsequent to full disbursement of the second tranche (once recycled funds
were being on-lent), in May 1986 and August 1986, the terms and conditions for
the use of the EDF were broadened, by amending the terms and conditions of
certain categories of subloans and extending EDF access to Yugoslav
international road transport firms, airline companies and railway
organizations, all of which are engaged in the export of Yugoslav services.
Administratively, loan implementation by UBB was fully satisfactory.
32.      Although there was concern initially that EDF funds were being lent
disproportionately to Serbian enterprises (68% of the first tranche), there
was a discernable trend to a more even distribution over time (5SC of second
tranche funds) with only 35% of recycled funds going to Serbian exporters.
Reasons given for this early trend included the fact that UBB, though
nationally represented, was nevertheless a Serbian bank and that Serbian
enterprises, particularly UBB clients, would have been familiar with the EDF
before enterprises located in other Republics and Provinces. In additiun, a
number of other Republics (especially Slovenia, Yugoslavia's largest exporter
to the convertible countries) continued to have access to cheaper bilateral
export and suppliers credits whereas Serbian enterprises did not. On the
whole, however, the Yugoslav authorities were satisfied with the operations of
the EDF which, with recycled funds, has to date financed close to $650 million
(as of September 30, 1986) in loans for exports totalling about $1.2 billion
(see Table 1 attached, for distribution of EDF funds by sector as of June
1986) and in so doing removed an important financial bottleneck to export
growth.
G. Loan Monitoring
33.      SAL implementation was closely monitored by the Bank, especially
prior to release of the second tranche. This was considered necessary in view
of the comprehensive package of policy reforms and sector studies to be
implemented, and the numerous criteria for release of the second tranche
which, as indicated earlier (see para. 10), was delayed by about ten months
over original estimates. Major review missions took place in October 1983 and
May 1984, with additional missions between June 1983 and August 1985 focusing
on specific sector requirements and EDF implementation. Bank staff also
part'cipated in an IMF mission in December 1983 to review the proposed reforms
to the foreign exchange allocation system (a summary of SAL related missions
is attached as Annex IV). Subsequent to tranche release, monitoring of the



- 40 -
SAL was not as systematic nor as frequent, though reviews of progress in
implementing policy adjustments were carried out in the course of SAL II
preparation, with missions in May and October 1984, March and November 1985.
In addition, Bank staff participated in an IMF mission to review progress on
foreign exchange and foreign trade reforms in May-June 1984, and again in June
1985 and June 1986. Moreover, the need to meet the SAL I conditions were
continually stressed to Government as a sine qua non for a second SAL.
Despite the missions, and the collaboration between the Federal authorities
and the Bank on the SAL I program, there appears nonetheless to have been
insufficient appreciation by Federal and Bank staff of the ability of vested
interests at the regional and local level to slow and resist the proposed
reform program. Additionally, this resistance is supported by the chronic
tendency in the Yugoslav federal structure, to dilute reform proposals - so as
to achieve political consensus - to the lowest common denominator. Most
recently there has been an apparent weakening in the Government's commitment
to implementation of the policy reforms, as defined in SAL, as a result of the
escalation in domestic inflation. The experience with SAL I suggests that
future policy reform lending should be more closely linked to a clear
commitment of the Government to the implementation of a few key, clearly
monitorable, reforms over a multi-annual period. There would be an explicit
understanding that adherence by the Government to their implementation would
result in quick processing of follow-up Bank operations of a tuctionally agreed
upon size without additional conditions. Carrying out of other reforms
designed to deepen the process of economic restructuring would result in
additional Bank ler,ding along the same lines.
V. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
34.      Performance under the Yugoslav SAL needs to be viewed in two distinct
parts, though as originally conceived, these were to be complementary and
self-supporting. On the one hand, the EDF was established as a means of
providing subloans to exporters for the purchase of essential inputs. The
objective, at a time of severe foreign exchange scarcity, was to ease
Yugoslavia's balance of payments problems by helping to sustain an increase in
industrial exports. In this respect, though there was some initial delay in
disbursement of EDF funds and a more considerable delay in release of the
second tranche due to delays in compliance on policy conditions and
undertakings, the operations of the EDF were highly successful and contributed
to the improved current account balance in 1983-1985. An important result of
this improvement in the external balance was the continued willingness of
Yugoslavia's commercial and official creditors to agree to a series of
financial restructuring packages in 1983, 1984, and 1985.
35.      Yet by its nature, the SAL was not intended as a one time operation,
and the support to the EDF was intended to lead into and complement the
long-term structural adjustments called for under the SAL. Indeed, the SAL
was to mark the beginning of a process of adjustments outlined by the LTPES--a
break with the past inefficiencies of excessive controls and
fragmentation--and the new adjustment strategy was to be supported by a
possible series of SALs from the Bank. A second SAL was therefore originally
programmed for approval in FY84 or immediately following satisfactory
completion of SAL I. Accordingly, preparation of a proposed second SAL,
intended to deepen and extend the areas of reform covered under SAL I, is well
advanced, though currently at a standstill. The largely unsatisfactory



- 41 -
implementation of SAL I policy undertakings since 1985, particularly in the
areas of interest rate adjustments and the foreign trade/foreign exchange
regime, combined with the recent weakening of overall macroeconomic
management, have not allowed us to proceed with SAL II. Underlying these
issues, are questions on Yugoslavia's commitment to a more market-based
economic system and the Federal Government's ability to achieve the
inter-regional consensus required for the effective implementation of major
systemic reforms.
36.      Therefore, as regards the implementation of SAL I commitments, and
the broader movement towards meaningful economic adjustment as established in
the LTPES and thz LDP, Yugoslav performance has been disappointing. Our
current inabilitv to proceed with SAL II or a meaningful operations program
almost 3-1/2 years after the first SAL, is testimony to this. Of the 24
conditions and undertakings agreed to under the SAL (see Table 2 attached)
only 5 were clearly undertaken (7 if one includes the EDF operations). These
include: under foreign trade and foreign exchange (i) exchange rate
adjustments (para. 18); under pricing, the adjustment of (ii) petroleum,
(iii) natural gas, (iv) electricity (para. 23), (v) railway tariffs (para.
24); and (vi) the submission of an agricultural primary production study
(para. 30); in addition, the passage of a new law on pricing, though not a
formal undertaking of SAL, nevertheless supported its policy direction.
Though the exchange rate adjustment was met from a strictly legal point of
view, as para. 18 points out, the Government has recently switched to a policy
of discrete depreciations followed by periods of appreciation in order to
break inflationary expectations. However, in 1986 Yugoslavia's export
competitiveness has been eroded due to the change in the foreign exchange
allocation (para. 18). Moreover, the allocation of foreign exchange and the
import regime remain subject to a rigid system of administrative controls.
37.      An additional 10 commitments could be considered partially
undertaken. These include in the investment area (i) a cut-back of investment
(para. 13); (ii) the preparation of the Social Compact on Investment Criteria
(para. 14); (iii) submission of investment reports (para. 13); (iv) adjustment
of floor lending rates (para. 15); (v) the submission of a textile sector
study (para. 16); (vi) the application of current prices to investment
planning by banks (para. 17); (vii) foreign debt monitoring and reporting
(para. 20); in pricing (viii) road user charges (para. 24); and in financial
discipline (ix) limitations on the growth of personal incomes in loss-making
enterprises (para. 28); and (x) submission of a study on agro-industrial
rehabilitation (para. 30). Even in these areas of partial compliance,
however, for items (iii), (iv), (vi) and (vii) there has been, since release
of the second tranche, a clear retreat from the policy objectives under the
SAL program, and for item (v), only one (the textile study) of five subsector
studies has been submitted.
38.      For the remaining seven areas, the undertakings have not been met.
These include (i) the continued use of a core investment program in energy
(para. 13); (ii) an increase in foreign exchange mobility and movement towards
the establishment of a foreign exchange market (para. 19); (iii) liberalizaticn
of the foreign trade regime (para. 21); (iv) preparation of an effective
protection study (para. 21); (v) adjustment of coal and lignite prices (para.
23); (vi) preparation of an LRMC study for electricity pricing (para. 23); and
(vii) limitations on the use of inter-enterprise capital transfers (para. 28).



- 42 -
39.       Of the major policy areas for the SAL as a whole, taking into
consideration the latest policy initiatives of the new Government, only in the
area of pricing could one conclude that meaningful adjustments were made
during the SAL implementation period, though even here, as para. 25 points
out, there has recently been a disquieting retreat from the progress made
earlier. In the other major policy areas, particularly investment, interest
rates, foreign trade, foreign exchange, and financial discipline, performance
has been for the most part well below expectations, with whatever progress
made in the early part of the SAL's implementation, since eroded by the
internal pressures of regional and institutional interests to ease the
hardship of the structural adjustment process.
40.       What conclusions can one draw from the experience of the first
Yugoslav SAL? Can one conclude in retrospect that the country was not ready
for a SAL and that the systemic obstacles to meaningful structural reform
cannot be overcome in the absence of major reforms of the current political
and social system? That the current post-Tito system of a weak Federal
Government, which does not have in hand the needed policy instruments, is not
suited to implementation of SAL reforms? Or should one conclude that the SAL
was too comprehensive, too ambitious, too hurriedly put together (under the
pressure to conclude a major financial package), and not mindful enough of the
political realities of the Yugoslav federation, suggesting a different
structure for a second SAL?
41.       Certainly, the process of reform in Yugoslavia, given its rather
unique political and social make-up, is slower and more uneven than in many
countries, but reforms have taken place in the past, and some meaningful
progress was being made during the earlier part of SAL implementation when the
Fund was present with standbys, and EDF funds remained to be disbursed and
external debt management was a critical issue. A sustained commitment to
reform has to be there to start with. The prospect of a second SAL and
expanded Bank lending have not been incentive enough to overcome the
countervailing pressure, supported by high inflation and unemployment--to ease
the pace and the process of reform. In view of the time elapsed since SAL I
approval, its momentum is being eroded, and unless the Government soon
indicates a willingness to proceed with the reforms proposed in SAL II or with
acceptable alternative proposals, thereby reversing the recent trend away from
the use of market signals and financial discipline, one would have to question
the Government's ability and commitment to carrying out a meaningful program
of structural adjustment. Indeed, at the recent Bank Annual Meetings (October
1986) the Government stressed again that the policy conditions the Bank views
as essential to the adjustment of the economy are, for the moment, not
acceptable.
42.       On the other hand, the process of SAL implementation has helped to
increase awareness within the Government and the Bank of the difficulties and
costs involved in the adjustment process and the need to minimize the
complexity of future SAL programs to what is implementable. It has also
served as an indispensable means of providing the Bank with substantial
insights into the workings of the Yugoslav system.



- 43 -
43.        Should the newly appointed Government (May 1986) reach agreement
with the Bank on the policy measures for achieving medium-term adjustment,
based on the experience of SAL I, any future policy-based lending should
(i) limit the scope of conditions and undertakings to only the most essential
and for which clearly identified arrangements and commitments for undertaking
and applying them have been established beforehand. While policy packages for
each loan should be specific and monitorable, they should avoid a multiplicity
of subcomponents within each area. Not only does such complexity create
difficulties for the Government authorities in monitoring and implementing,
but it also limits the effectiveness of Bank staff supervision; (ii) require
the creation of a counterpart economic team which, in addition to designing
the program and monitoring progress, would have the means and the authority to
analyze and recommend mid-course corrections to policy undertakings should
circumstances warrant. Without some such authority at the Federal level, it
is difficult to see SAL as a feasible approach in the Yugoslav system. This
could be complemented by measures (for example, technical assistance) to
strengthen key institutions involved in SAL implementation; (iii) to the
extent possible, seek to ensure that the Federal authorities include the
Republics and Provinces in the formulation, preparation and formal approval of
the SAL program itself so as to have their full commitment to its
implementation and ensure that they consider it their program (iv) focus more
systematically on ensuring the effectiveness of regulaticns, and where
appropriate, recommending the creation of regulatory bodies to ensure that
policy measures are being applied; (v) more clearly articulate how the SAL
reform package would practically assist in dealing with the Government's major
economic concerns, notably export development, inflation and umemployment.
Attachments:  (1)  Annex I, Letter of Development Policy.
(2) Annex II, Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement/Tranche
Release Conditions.
(3) Annex III, List of Criteria and Monitorable Actions
(4) Annex IV, Summary of SAL-related Missions.
(5) Table 1, Distribution of EDF Funds as of June 11, 1986.
(6) Table 2, Summary List of SAL Conditions and Undertakings.
October 24, 1986



- 414 -
A 640'o



- 45 -
ANNEX I
rage I of 24
hr. A. W. Clausen
President
The World Bank
1818 a Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear hr. Clausen:
l.       In view of the positive experience and the heretofore very
successful cooperation between Yugoslavia and she World Bank, the Federal
Executive Council has formulated.this Letter on Yugoslavia's development
policy till the end of 1985, directly connected with the talks on new forms
of our long-standing cooperation i.e. relevant to the request for granting
Yugoslavia the first loan for the structural adjustment of the Yugoslav
economy.
2.       In this letter the Federal Executive Council has articulated the
directions of development and current economic policy which it will submit
before the SnRY Assembly, and along the lines of which it will evolve its
activity in implementing the economic stabilization policy, and inform the
World Bank on the results on a regular basis. Taking account of the
opinions of your mission advanced during 'the talks conducted with the
Yugoslav authorities in Belgrade in February and April of this year that
the World Bank through these forms o! cooperation in no way wants to bring
into question the self-management system and decision-making modes on
national developmet and economic policy based on our constitutional order,
the Federal Executive Council shall submit to the SnRY Assembly and execute
the declared intent of this letter within its jurisdiction as well as take
decisions in accordance with the socio-economic system established and
consti.tuted in Yugoslavia.
3.       We also wish to express the view and thi assurances of the Federal
Executive Council that, in view of the degree of Yugoslavia's development,
the prevailing external circumstances affecting the development of our
country, as well as the efforts and results in the implementation of the
economic stabilization policy and in dealing with certain problems in our
economy, the intent of this letter in part of a more comprehensive strategy
and policy of the development of our country expressed through the
long-term stabilization program. The Federal Executive Council shall
pursue the long-term stabilization program with determination with a view
to the successful continuation of the country's social and economic
development based on socialist self-management and a non-aligned foreign
policy.



- 46 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 24
The Macroeconomic Situation
4.       As you are aware, developments in the international economy since
1979 have placed a great strain on the Yugoslav economy. The rise in oil
prices, taken together with the weak performance of Yugoslav exports in
that year and in the years preceding and the burden of increased interest
payments on internstional debt, had led to a balance-of-payments deficit of
$3.7 billion in 1979. This deficit, together with other disturbances in
commodity and money relations in the domestic economy, had led the
Government as early as the second half of 1980 to begin to introduce and
implement a program of stabilization measures which between 1981 and 1983
have become.became increasingly comprehensive and better defined and are
still in the course.of implementation. The main characteristics of these
measures, which have been supported by substantial assistance from the IfM
since June 1980, are primarily related to a considerable increase of
production through increased capacity utilization and strengthening of its
competitive capabilities in relation to foreign countries and increase of
exports, particularly to the convertible currency area. It has been
necessary to act more resolutely to adapt all forms of consumption to real
income and material possibilities, and to this end we opted for more
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies, a more active policy of the rate
of exchange of the dinar to encourage exports, 'curb public consumption,
curb investment demand and promote investment efficiency by increasing the
share of organizations of associated labour in financing investments, with
a concurrent restriction on credit demand, and take other similar easures
aimed at 'removing generators of unstable relations in reproduction. At the
same time action has been taken to reduce import purchases in line with
revenues accruing from ex.ort earnings and from a more restrained program
of foreign borrowing than has been the case in the preceding period.
5.       As a result of these measures, Yugoslavia was successful in
reducing its balance-of-payments deficit substantially to g2.3 billion in
1980 and to $0.9 billion in 1981. These improvements were based upon a
considerable increase in exports of goods and nonfactor services, which
increased by 11% in 1980 and 12% in 1981 in real terms. Notwithstanding
this export performance, achieving the balance of payments deficit
mentioned above involved outright cuts in imports of 102 in 1980 and a
further 21 in 1981. These changes have resulted in an increase of the
coverage of imports by exports to 59.6X in 1980 and 70.22 in 1981 as
compared to 48.52 in 1979. The cuts in imports were necessitated by
several factors, including insufficient merchandise exports, the weak
performance of exports of invisibles and the continued adverse impact of
rising international interest rates. In addition, the deteriorating
climate in international capital markets led to a reduction in the level
and certainty with which foreign funds could be used in Yugoslavia, adding
further to the need to constrain imports.



- 47 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 24
6.       Although we had reason to feel encouraged by developments in the
balance of payments between 1979 and 1981, these gains were at an
appreciable cost to the economy as a whole and were accompanied by other,
less positive developments. The growth rate of social product of 7.0% in
1979 was sharply reduced to 2.2% and 1.5X, respectively, in 1980 and 1981,
with industrial output especially hard hit, its 1979 growth rate of 8.2%
falling to 4.1% in 1980 and 1981. The need to step up exports and to
address the country's external liquidity problems despite low economic
growth involved reductions of all forms of final consumption. Particularly
noteworthy were trends in real fixed investment, from growth of 6.4% in
1979 to reductions of 1.7% in 1980 and a further 9.3% in 1981 as well as
reductions in real personal incomes in the social sector by 8% in 1980 and
5% in 1981. Despite significant reductions in domestic demand,
inflationary pressures remained considerable and have necessitated measures
ot social price control in accordance with our Anti-Inflation Program.
7.       Developments in 1982 did not, unfortunately, lead to any
significant reversal in these trends. Despite our best efforts there was a
revival in domestic demand in the first half of that year, accompanied by a
worsening in inflationary pressure. At the same time exports to the
convertible currency area were reduced as compared to the preceding year
and there was a reduction of foreign exchange inflow from tourism as well
as from workers' remittances due to a number of external and internal
causes. External liquidity difficulties of some of our banks prevented us
from completing our borrowing program and maintaining our short-term debt
liabilities at planned levels. The consequence of these developments was
to put further pressure on our imports from the convertible area. While
the balance of payments deficit with the convertible area was reduced
substantially, this was almost wholly due to reductions in imports to an
extent that has been harmful to the smooth running of the economy, above
all industrial production. Additional measures to restrict demand were
taken in 1982 leading-to a further reduction in real personal incomes in
the social sector of about 3%. Fixed investments were also further reduced
by about 6%.
Structural Aspects
8.       While on the one hand trends in the external environment were
important proximate causes of our current difficulties, on the other the
severity of our present economic situation also reflects certain structural
problems in the development of the Yugoslav economy in recent years. Of
particular importance were investment policy and certain aspects of the
framework for the allocation of the available resources.
9.       In the area of investment policy our fundamental objective,
embodied in Yugoslavia's 1976-1980 medium-term plan, was to direct



- 48 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 o, 24
investment into certain priority sectors whose accelerated development was
seen as necessary by mutual agreement between the socialist republics and
the socialist autonomous provinces, and which are of particular importance
to the development of the Yugoslav economy as a whole. Our experience in
the 1976-1980 medium-term plan period revealed certain weaknesses in the
envisaged material and finan-cial frameworks for implementing the investment
policy agreed upon. The assumptions and frameworks of the plan were
designed to give stronger expression to the principle that organizations of
associated labour have a decisive role in investment proposals and in
taking decisions to ihvest with a view to the accelerated development of
the economy and society in general. However, the eagerness to attain the
agreed development objectives as set in the plan and the fact that, owing
to a number of external and internal factors the required domestic capital
was not available, accompanied by relatively high inflation and the
underpricing of capital (as reflected in negative real interest rates), led
to excessive investment demand in comparison with the financing
possibilities available. Consequently, the very ambitious program
initiated in the 1976-1980 plan period led to too many projects being
simultaneously launched throughout the country, with the inevitable
consequence that investable resources were stretched too thinly over too
many projects. A number of factors contributed to these difficulties: the
definition of priority sectors for investment proved to be too broad and
insufficiently selective; expectations regarding the growth of investors'
own sources of financing did not materialize to a sufficient degree, which
in turn led to increased reliance on external sources of financing, one of
the causes of this being the very slow progress in the pooling of resources
between enterprises; insufficient attention was paid to the financial
planning of investments and in connection thereto to establishing the
framework for the allocation of resources for the accelerated development
of priority sectors; insufficient attention was paid to the economic
evaluation and market viability of projects in the project appraisal and
selection process; as stated, in view of the high rate of inflation,
interest rates did not play a sufficiently important role in directing
investable resources; price rises in the investment sector led to high
cost overruns reflected in reduced investment efficiency and other factors
caused by general economic instability.
10.      These problems, and particularly the problems generated by a
regime of increasingly negative interest rates were complicated by other
distortions in the allocative framework. In the area of trade policy an
overvalued exchange rate for the dinar, together with the protective
mechanisms that became necessary to defend such a rate, insufficiently
stimulated production for exports, which in turn resulted in a worsening of
structural problems. At the same time, certain relative price distortions
in the transportation, energy and agricultural sectors discouraged
efficient investment and consumption decisions. Finally, the overall



- 49 -
ANNEX T
Page 5 of 24
conditions of economic activity in which economic decisions were taken by
organizations of associated labour made them less responsive to market laws
than was desirable, since a wide variety of mechanisms existed to absorb
losses and to protect the economic agents involved from the adverse
consequences of such decisions.
11.      Given the consequences of this policy regime toward the end of the
last plan period, and the aggravated state of external and internal
conditions, the framework of Yugoslavia's 1981-1985 Social Plan aimed for a
much slower growth of the economy with a reduction in the investment rate
and a stress on the completion of on-going projec'ts through allocating more
resources to more narrowly defined priority activities with a view to a
faster elimination of basic structural problems. However, due to the
further deterioration in the world economy and in the external position of
Yugoslavia, it soon became clear that even these scaled back targets were
too ambitious, given the resources envisaged in the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia. It also became clear that considerable changes in the
functioning of mechanisms and instruments of the economic system and
economic policy would be needed to undertake the faster structural
adjustment of the economy, if the economy was to be put back onto a
relatively fast and stable growth path.
12.      In keepinr with our specific political and socio-economic system,
a special Commission, called the Stabilization Commission, was set up in
July 1980, within the Federal Social Councils to deal with the issues of
economic stabilization.  The main task of this Commission was to work out a
comprehensive and long-term program of economic stabilization. This
program was to be the basis for the work of the appropriate competent
organs in solving the most pressing issues in the fields of current
economic and developmental policy. With the participation of a large
number of scientists, experts and other public workers from the whole
country, the Commission has been working on eighteen studies, which concern
the strategic development of the country and measures of economic policy.
The work of this Commission is now nearing completion, and it is expected
that a program of economic stabilization in the form of a legal act will be
submitted to the Assembly of Yugoslavia in the first half of this year, to
be adopted by the Assembly this year with the consent of all the assemblies
of the republics and provinces. Proceeding from the results of the work of
this Commission to date, and in para:lel with this, as specified in more
detail below, we have been undertaking a series of economic policy actions
designed to address the major socio-economic issues referred to above.
13.      One consequence of the deliberations of the Stabilization
Commission, and of the discussion and debate of its proposals that have
ensued, has been the revision of the medium-term development orientation of
the country. In this connection, work is in progress on the amendments to



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 24
the Social Plan of Yugoslavia and the social plans of the republics and
autonomous provinces for the 1981-1985 period. At the same time, these
revisions will serve as the basis for the long-term concept of the
country's development policy through 1990 and 2000. The main
characteristics of the revised framework are: the faster structural
adjustment o. the economy aimed at a more efficient and complete inclusion
of our country in the international division of labour; adjustment of
domestic demand in line with realistically available resources; a greater
reliance on market forces, coupled with appropriate guidance by the plan;
and the adaptation of appropriate economic policy measures and instruments
to achieve macroeconomic balance in the economy. At the same time, given
the current unsettled conditions in international financial markets, there
has been a reaffirmation of the policy of economic stabilization to
restrict the growth in external indebtedness of the country, through
greater reliance on domestic potential, and by facilitating increased
exports and improved utilization of resources.
14.      Details of our medium-term economic adjustment program are
presented below. As you will see, this program is directly aimed at
eliminating the weaknesses in the regime of socio-political measures
identified earlier, as well as towards attaining the developmental
objectives which we deem appropriate in view of the present situation in
our economy.   With the support provided to us by the World Bank, the IMF
and other financial institutions in recent months, we feel that this is the.
appropriate time for intensifying activities aimed at the faster &tructural
adjustment of our economy, as a necessary condition for implementing the
program of economic stabilization and restoring the trend of relatively
dynamic economic growth which would reflect more accurately the use of the
available economic potential during the next medium-term period 1986-1990.
The Medium-Term Adjustment Program
15.      The Yugoslav program for 1983 is articulated in the Annual Plan
Resolution for 1983, currently in effect. The salient features of this
program are also described in a Letter of Intent addressed by Yugoslavia to
the Managing Director of the IMF. This program, among other things,
envisages further restrictions in all forms of domestic consumption and
continued significant reductions in fixed investments, in line with the
possibilities for ensuring resources from realistic sources. These
restrictions, coupled with the strengthening of qualitative factors in
economic activities and an active dinar exchange rate policy, should have a
tavourable impact on the competitiveness of the Yugoslav economy and boost
export efforts. Other elements of this program include increases in
interest rates and selective price increases designed to correct relative
price distortions.



- 51 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 24
16.      The 1981-1985 five-year Social Plan of Yugoslavia and the plans of
the republics and autonouaous provinces for the same period are also in the
process of revision. Their revision is expected to be completed by the end
of this year. The orientation of economic policy will remain, broadly
speaking, unchanged. One of the main objectives of the plan is to put the
balance of payments with the convertible currency area on a more secure
footing through a vigorous expansion of exports while reducing the relative
external indebtedness of the country. Given the scaled down material
possibilities, these amendments to the plans are not expected to bring
about a more dynamic economic growth and a more considerable increase in
domestic consumption before the end of this planning period. More dynamic
growth in the following planning period should however be possible on the
basis that is established. Within this general framework the principal
directions of economic policy and activities in the current plan are given
below. Our intention is to conclude, by the end of June this year, an
agreement on amendments to the Agreement on the Bases of the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia for the 1981-1985 period and to prepare appropriate analytical
materials on the developmental possibilities of the country to the end of
1985, which will serve as a basis for amendments to the Plan. The
competent organs shall inform the Bank, not later than the end of September
1983, on the results of the work on amendments to the plan documents with
particular emphasis on the main development objectives and the priority
sectors of the economy, submitting to the Bank plan documents which in the
meantime are to be enacted. Prior to adopting the Annual Resolutions of
Economic Policy for 1984 and 1985 the Bank shall be informed on the
macroeconomic assumptions on which investment policy is to be based and the
proposed sectoral allocation of investment for the relevant year, and the
necessity for discussion on specific issues emanating from these documents
will be jointly assessed.
Investment Policy and Resource Allocation
Ongoing Investments
17.      As already noted, there have been significant reductions in the
volume of investments in the last three years, and the Annual Plan for 1983
envisages a 'further reduction in real fixed investments by-202.  This
process of bringing investments in line with real investable resources is
expected to continue into 1984 and 1985 s0 that the volume of fixed
investment over the 1981-1985 period will be about 20-252 lower than in the
original plan. In the course of implementing these cuts and in preparation
for the remaining years of the medium-term plan we have been engaged in
narrowing and refocussing our investments in the desired direction. We
have already successfully reduced the volume of non-economic investments to
a far greater extent than that of investments in economic activities, as
had been our intention. Within economic activities, our orientation has



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 24
been to concentrate on completing ongoing projects, particularly those
which will provide the most immediate effects as regards increased
production and the improvement of the balance of payments. We have
severely limited the initiation of new projects, except those which will
clearly in a relatively short time have a beneficial impact on the balance
on payments and solve, on a more permanent basis, the structural problems
in the economy. In addition to improving the balance of payments, through
increased production for export and rational import substitution, we intend
to accord priority to energy production and conservation and to food
production. Our views of priorities will be reflected in the sectoral
allocation of investment resources, to be incorporated in the revised
medium-term plan.
18.      While the total number of ongoing investment projects is still
very lar*e, a relatively small number of large projects account for a
substantial portion of the work in progress. We have therefore paid
particular attention to these large projects with a view to reducing their
number and rephasing their execution in line with our financial
capabilities and the above-mentioned priorities. In the context of our
review of the program of ongoing investments, and related to changes in the
social development plans, and in view of the importance of the energy
sector in our overall adjustment strategy, we intend to complete a special
review of our investment program in the energy sector by June this year, in
conformity with the long-term development of the energy sector of
Yugoslavia. Results of this special review will be communicated to the
Bank. In accordance with our economic system, we intend to rely on
indirect measures to reorient investment towards priority activities and
away from those considered non-priority. In this connection, a number of
measures have already-been undertaken aimed at curbing investment in
non-priority activities. Under the credit policy for 1983, the level of
bank credits for non-priority investment projects will in nominal terms be
considerably reduced in comparison with 1982. In addition, under the Law
on Temporary Injunction against Issuing Guarantees and Other Instruments
for Securing Resources from Future Revenues and against Granting Credits
and Issuing Guarantees for Cost Overruns in the Financing of Investments,
the banks are prohibited from issuing guarantees and financing cost
overruns in non-priority activities. Given the inflation to date, it is
expected that these restrictions will lead to a significant real decline in
the share of non-priority investment in total investment. These measures
will enable us to effect structural changes in the pattern of investments,
not only in the large projects mentioned above, but also in medium-size and
smaller projects.
19.      In order to strengthen project monitoring capabilities, the
rederal Social Planning Institute, the Federal Social Accounting Service
and the Federal Institute of Statistics have begun work on an improved



- 53 -
ANNEX I
Page 9 of 24
system for recording the progress on ongoing investment projects. The
first step in this process shal' be the preparation of semi-annual reports
on ongoing investment projects, particularly on projects exceeding 750
million dinars, starting in October 1983. Particular attention will be
given to reporting on progress in projects included in the revised program
of priority activities, especially those in the energy sector mentioned
above. The Bank shall be informed in an agreed format about findings based
upon these reports and evaluation of competent organs, and discussion on
these reports shall be held as considered necessary. In addition, we
intend to move to a system of more frequent quarterly reporting during 1984
once the system of recording investments and the technical procedure become
established. Information on the economic and financial rates of return on
new projects the value of which exceeds 750 million dinars, shall also be
communicated to the Bank starting April 1984.
New Investments
20.      An indispensable part of our structural adjustment effort and of
the improved enviro.xment for investment decisions is to elaborate criteria
and parameters which would ensure a more rational selection of investment
projects in a way that is compatible with our self-managed system of
decision-making. In our view such improvements should consist of improved
criteria for the appraisal of investment projects and of appropriate
mechanisms to implement them, the more realistic evaluation of investment
costs and the greater accountability of investing units for the outcome of
these investment decisions.
21.      A number of steps have already been taken to improve the
institutional and legal framework for investment approial and
coordination. Firstly, for all proposed investments, assured sources of
financing must be secured. Secondly, the contributiont of the investors
are clearly specified in the Law on Special Conditions for Approving
Investment Credits, and are based on a sliding scale rrnging from 10-90%,
depending on the purpose of investments. Thirdly, in contrast to past
practice, the banks are now prohibited from issuing guarantees against the
future income of the organization of associated labour to cover its
contribution to the financing of investment (except in a limited number of
priority areas). It is expected that these measures will in combination
serve to reduce the demand for investable resources, and by requiring
investors to contribute more of their own resources to investment projects
also to introduce a more cautious approach to new investments.
24.      We are also in the process of implementing a program to improve
project selection and appraisal procedures in Yugoslavia, in accordance
with the agreed development Policy. The first step in this process was
taken in November 1982 when the Social Compact on Registering Proposed



- 54 -
ANNEX I
'Page 10 of 24
Investments was concluded, requiring investors to register proposed
investment projects in th, economic sectors with a value in excess of 50 or
100 million Dinars with the Regional or Federal Chambers of Economy. We.
intend, by June 1983, to conclude, in Yugoslavia, a Social Compact on the
Criteria for, and Evaluation of, the Socio-economic Justification of
Proposed Investments which will be used in conjunction with the existing
compacts in some republics which deal in greater detail with such matters
and with criteria determined by individual banks. The draft Compact
provides for a number of minimum criteria that must by met by projects
throughout the country, and for the methods of institutional implementation
and monitoring of these criteria. These criteri- will, inter alia, include
the economic rate of return (calculated according to the World Bank
methodology) for investment projects in the economic sectors in conformity
with the Social Compact mentioned above. This Compact would provide for a
minimum economic rate of return on the investment, taking into account the
criteria of the World Bank, although the minimum rate of return would vary
depending on the nature of the activity. The proposed Social Compact will
provide for the establishment of appropriate bodies attached to the
Chambers of Economy which would give opinions regarding the social and
economic justification of registered proposed investments, taking into
account the agreed criteria and their implementation, in conformity with
the right of working people independently and in a self-management manner
to decide on investments. In line with the legal regulations, this opinion
would be, within an appropriate time frame (which shall be fixed in the
mentioned Compact), submitted to the management body of the BOAL concerned,
which would, on its part, be obliged to inform the workers on this opinion
before the final investment decision is taken, as well as for the purpose
of informing all other interested OALS, communities, banks as well as the
Federal. Republican and Provincial Institutes for Social Planning.
23.      Complementin, the conclusion of th.is Social Compact, it will be
necessary to strengthen the capacity of personnel in the OALs, commercial
banks and chambers of economy for the purpose of monitoring and
implementing this Compact as well as other established and agreed criteria
and to work on the promotion of the system of criteria for the evaluation
of socio-economic justification of investments. Accordingly, Federal,
Republican and Provincial Chambers of Economy and the commercial banks
will, by December 1983 prepare personnel training and recruitment programs
for improved investment efficiency review procedures, so that by December
1984, the Federal and regional Chambers of Economy and commercial banks
will have sufficient trained personnel for the revised investment
procedures.
24.      With the financial aid of the World Bank we intend to conduct
studies in important subsectors of industry and other studies with a view
to improving the investment efficiency in these subsectors. These



- 55 -
ANNEX I
Page 11 of 224
subsector studies could form the basis of future subsector lending by the
World Bank to Yugoslavia. The framework and modalities of these studies
would be discussed with the World Bank in September 1983.
Interest Rate Polic,
25.      During the past year, the interest rate mechanism has been
actively used in support of our adjustment efforts. Fince March 1982,
nominal deposit interest rates have been raised on three occasions. The
most recent increase occured in February 1983, with the result that the
lending rates on commercial bank credits from their own resources have
risen significantly. Although new lending rates vary significantly
according to the particular circumstances of each bank, lending rates for
non-priority purposes, and in some instances even priority projects, are
approaching cr have reached real levels.  Roveer, despite these increases
in nominal interest rates, owing to the continued relatively high rate of
inflation in Yugoslavia, average lending rates on comercial bank resources
and more especially on selective credits and special funds have remained
negative in real terms. There is a firm intention of gradual attainment of
real interest rates over several years through, primarily, reducing
inflation rates and gradually adjusting the nominal interest rates to these
trends, in confonmity with the long-term orientation of the Anti-inflation
Program.
26.      The most recent increase in borrowing interest rates, effected in
February this yaar, was based on our assumptions of likely annual growth in
producers prices. In accordance with the objectives of the medium-term
policy and determination to gradually adjust the interest rates to the rate
of inflation, if the infoi,ation shows that producers prices rise at a rate
of growth faster than the planned one, we shall review the need to adjust
interest rates to such trends.
27.      As concerns the interest rate policy in the coming years providing
for the adjustment of interest rates in line with the movements in
inflation, it is proposed to introduce a floor lending rate for new credits
from domestic commercial bank resources. This floor interest rate would be
introduced as of January 1, 1984 and would initially amount to 18%. Should
inflation in 1983 (January I to December 31, 1983) be higher than
anticipated, this initial interest rate would be increased by at least
one-third of the difference betweer the initial floor rate (182) and the
rate of inflation in 1983 (as measured by the index of producers prices).
The process of idjustm2nt of interest rates resulting in the attainment of
real interest rates would be concluded in 1986. In the course of this
period, real interest rates should be gradually introduced, namely:
- For economic sectors, in January 1985 the floor interest rate
would be increased by it least one-third of the difference



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 24
between the growth of producers prices and the floor interest
rate set for 1984. However, if in 1984 the rate of growth of
retail prices should exceed the growth of producers prices, the
floor interest rate for 1985 would be increased by an
additional amount equal to at least one-third of the difference
between the increase in the index of producers prices and the
index of retail prices. The same formula would be applied for
setting the floor interest rate in 1986. In January 1987 the
floor interest rate would be adjusted in accordance with the
index of producers prices for 1986, unless the rate of increase
of retail prices in 1986 was higher than that of producers
prices, in which case-the floor interest rate would be at least
equal to the level of the increase of retail prices in 1986.
For non-economic sectors, starting in January 1984, floor
interest rates would be adjusted ar.nually in the course of the
following two years so that by January 1986 they reach the
level equal to at least the rate of inflation measured by the
index of retail prices for 1985.
28.      In the above context, exceptions would be made where interest
rates would also be increased in accordaace with this adjustment but not
with the same intensity and time frames, because of the selective financing
which is the function of the implementation of the policy of economic
stabilization in accordance with the medium-term development plan of the
country, namely:
(a) all export credits;
(b) all short-term credits for agriculture approved within the
framework of the selective credit policy of the Yugoslav
National Bank;
(o) investment credits for primary agricultural production
(cereals, milk, meAt, industrial crops and conditions for
significantly incruasing their production, that is large
irrigation and drainage works, land consolidation and bringing
new iand under cultivation); for other agr
including agroindustry the provi~sions of paragraph 27 shall
appY
(d) investment credits for other priority activities which will be
defined and identifiea in the Amendlents to the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia for the 1981 - 1985 period;
(e)  resources paid into the special funds for accelerated
development of less develTovd regions at the level of the



- 57 -
ANNEX I
Pagi 13 of 24
Federation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces, as well as
resources associated in the form of joint ventures in
accordance with the existing system of stimulating the
development of these regions.
The total volume of investment credits in fixed assets approved by domestic
banks under items (c), (d) and (e) will not in any given year, through
1985, exceed 25% of the revised volume of annual total investments in fixed
assets in the social sector in the 1983 - 1985 period. In January 1986,
more favorable interest rates on investment credits for fixed assets for
these purposes can be applied to not more than 251 of the total investment
credits of domestic banks for fixed assets in the social sector. The floor
interest rate for credits under item (c) will, as of Jantsary 1984, amount
to 181 augmented by one-fifth of the difference between the floor interest
rate (181) and the inflation in 1983 measured by the index of producers
prices. In January 1985 the fioor interest rate would be increased by at
least one-fifth of the difference between the growth of producers price&
and the floor interest rate set for 1984. However, if in 1984 the rate of
growth of retail prices should exceed the growth of producers prices, the
floor interest rate for 1985 would be increased by an additional amount
equal to at least one-fifth of the difference between the increase in the
index of producers prices and the index of retail prices. The same formula
would be applied for setting the floor interest rate in 1986, 1987 and
1988. In January 1989 the floor interest rate would be adjusted in
accordance with the index of producers prices for 1988, unless the rate of
increase of retail prices in 1988 was higher than that of producers prices,
in which case the floor interest rate would be at least equal to the level
of the increase of retail prices in 1988. We intend each year gradually to
adjust interest rates on credits under items (d) above in such a way as to
reach the level of real interest rates over a five year period starting on
January 1, 1984 with the proviso that the floor interest rate for these
credits, in January 1984, will not be less than the average rate of
reproductive ability of the economy of the country (i.e. the ratio between
amortization and accumulation and iverage use of business funds). In
January 1985 the floor interest rate would be increased by at least
one-fourth of the difference between the growth of producers prices and the
floor interest rate set for 1984. However, if in 1984 the rate of growth
of retail prices should exceed the growth of producers prices, the floor
interest rate for 1985 will be increased by an additional amount equal to
at least one-fourth of the difference between the in~crease in the index of
producers prices and the index of retail prices. The same formula would be
applied tor setting the floor interest rate in 1986, 1987 and 1988. In
January 1989 the floor interest rate would be adjusted in accordance with
the index of producers prices for 1988, unless the rate of increase of
retail prices in 1988 was higher than that of producers prices, in which
case the floor interest rate would be at least equal to the level of the
increase of retail prices in 1988.



- 58 -
ANNEX I
Page 14 of 24
29.      The intention of the policy is to eliminate the difference between
the rate of inflation and the floor interest rate within the stated period
by appropriately increasing interest rates to reduce the gap between the
two in each successive year. Similarly, should there be a reduction in the
rate of inflation which was used as the basis for adjusting interest rates,
interest rates would be revised downwards accordingly. This means in the
event that the rate of increase in retail prices in any year should be
lower than the floor interest rate in that year, then the floor interest
rate would be revised downwards so that the floor rate of interest cannot
be lower than the rate of increase in retail prices.
30.      In accordance with our medium-term development policy and with the
system of stimulating accelerated development of economically less
developed republics and the SAP Kosovo, as well as other less developed
regions, and in accordance with the policy of interest rates proposed
above, an appropriate policy of differentiated interest rates would be
developed for all resources channelled to these regions through development
funds. The reason for this being that these are solidarity resources
targeted for a more harmonious development of the country and the reduction
of differences between more and less economically developed regions in
Yugoslavia. Another reason is that 50Z of these resources are in the form
of the association of resources between those providing and those using
resources, which means that they jointly bear risks, effect the transfer of
experience, bring about technological and organizational improvement an'
jointly generate income. The policy of economic stabilization envisages an
increasing share of resources associated in this manner as compared with
resources provided on the basis of obligatory loans.
31.      Our existing regulations enable the introduction of variable
borrowing and lending rates, so that the banks may provide for the
application of such interest rates in their credit agreements.
Financial Planning
32.      A particular problem that has been encountered in financial
planning in recent years has been the treatment of inflation, particularly
in the planning of the banks and of the financing of investment projects.
Under the present law, commercial banks must prepare investment plans on
the basis of constant prices. In this connection the plans of banks do not
cover the movement of inflation, leading to unrealistic planning and often
underfinancing of specific investment projects. It is our firm intention
to introduce financial planning at current prices, including planning in
the banks and financial planning of investment projects. To this end, the
Yugoslav Bank Association in consultation with the Federal Institute for
Social Planning will, not later than the end of 1983, propose an
appropriate methodology to enable the banks to make their financial and



- 59 -
ANNEX I
Page 15 of 24
operational projections at current prices starting in 1984. Starting at
the end of 1983, the Federal Institute for Social Planning with the
assistance of other competent federal bodies shall each year provide the
necessary medium-term assumptions to be used by all banks in preparing
their financial and operational planning at current prices.
33.      Improvements of the financial base and accountability of the
commercial banks relates to their provision for reserves (funds of joint
liability and reserve funds). Under the Credit and Banking Law of 1978 all
commercial banks are required to maintaini a Joint Liability Fund which can
be used to write off bad debts. The Law requires that the Joint Liability
Fund not be less than 32 of each bank's total investments on December 31 of
the preceding year. The same Law requires that banks create a reserve fund
to maintain their liquidity. This fund should amount to 31 of each bank's
total investments in the preceding year. The banks are obliged to allocate
to it not less than 0.31 of their total investments until the level of 32
is attained. A number of banks are currently in breach of both
requirements. In this connection, appropriate steps will be taken to
ensuse that all banks reach these requirements over a period of several
years and subsequently maintain both funds at the level prescribed by the
Law. As regards the Joint Liability Fund amendments to the statutory
regulations will be proposed making it obligatory for all banks to
replenish this fund over a period of 6 years and maintain it thereafter at
the level of 3% of their total investments. In addition, we have been
successful in reducing the use of short-term deposit resources for
long-term lending by the banks. The 1983 Annual Plan Resolution prohibits
banks to use more than 20% of their short-term reserves for long-term
lending. It is felt that this is consistent with prudent financial
management and measures shall be taken so as to ensure that banks maintain
this practice in the future.
Foreign Exchange Allocation and External Trade
34.      As was noted earlier, the acceleration of export growth to the
convertible currency areas is the most urgent and important priority of
economic policy. The performance in this area has been disappointing over
the course of 1982 and can be attributed to several factors including
continuing stagnation in the economies of our partner countries, and in
world trade, shortages of imported inputs and inadequate movement in the
exchange rate of the dinar. In response to the poor performance in the
first half of the year, the dinar was devalued by 201 in October 1982, and
continuous exchange rate adjustments (in order to ensure continued
competitiveness of the Yugoslav economy) has become an accepted part of the
official policy and will remain so in 1984 and 1985.



- 60 -
ANNEX I
Page 16 of 24
Foreign Exchange Allocation
35.      The intention of, the 1978 Law on Foreign Exchange Operation and
Foreign Credit Relations was to make possible the flow of foreign exchange
within the economy on the, basis of self-management. However, in conditions
characterized by a foreign exchange shortage, the operation of the
inter-bank foreign exchange market became extremely limited. The
implementation of a policy of realistic dinar exchange rates will in itself
contribute te reversing these trends. However, it was also considered
necessary to amend the provisions of the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations
and Foreign Credit Relations with effect from January 1, 1983. Therefore
it can-be said that efforts are being exerted to e;sure the stimulation of
exports and greater foreign exchange mobility in conditions when there was
a shortage of these resources. The competent federal authorities will
monitor and assess the operation of the existing system and submit a report
to that effect to the Federal Executive Council by September 1983. The
report which would be available for discussion with the World Bank and the
IbF will include a program of activities to improve foreign exchange
mobility by undertaking necessary measures for reactivating the domestic
foreign exchange market and more liberal procedures for stimulating
organizations with surplus foreign exchange to sell it to,deficit
organizations.
External Debt Reporting
36.      To assist in more rational planning of foreign exchange,
importance is attached to improving the information on foreign exchange
transactions. Measures have already been taken to revise the basis on
which the balance of payments is calculated, from a system of statistical
exchange rates to one of market exchange rates. The highest priority is
now being given to the completion of the program for the computerization of
external debt data, and necessary measures (including provision of staff
and financial resources) will be taken to ensure that the computerized
system of debt reporting and analysis is fully operational and capable of
providing analytically usable information by the end of 1983.  By July 1,
1983 the World Bank will agree with the National Bank of Yugoslavia on
reporting formats and a timetable that will provide a suitable test of the
system while providing information of use to the Bank and the Yugoslav
authorities.
Export Promotion
37.      In October 1982 a Law was introduced which gives priority in
foreign exchange allocation to exporters with signed export contracts.
With the proceeds of the Structural Adjustment Loan we shall establish a
permanent revolving Export Development Fund (EDF) from which potential



- 61 -
ANNEX I
Page 17 of 24
exporters could borrow the foreign exchange they need. In addition to the
proceeds of the SAL this fund shall be increased by foreign exchange
permanently purchased from the exporters that have benefited from EDF
resources. We also propose to augment the fund with additional amounts in
1984 and 1985.
38.      In June 1980 a new bank for export credits - The Yugoslav Bank for
International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC) was established. This bank
provides export credit insurance against non-commercial risks and
refinancing in dinars of medium- and long-term export credits made by
commercial banks to exporters of capital goods. The operations of the
YBIEC have expanded rapidly. The financial resources needed by this bank
to meet the demand for export credit financing up to 1985 as indicated in
its medium-term plan shall be made available by the banks, the National
Bank of Yugoslavia and other appropriate sources through the Annual Plan
Resolution for 1984 and 1985. Regarding the general development of the
institutional capability of the YBIEC, particularly with respect to market
information for capital goods and engineering exports, institutional and
personnel changes are already in progress. A detailed action plan will be
prepared by October 1983 which will cover activities regarding the further
institutional strengthening of personnel for these jobs. It is our
intention to fulfill this action plan by September 1984.
39.      In the past 30 years Yugoslavia has developed a solid
infrastructure for export promotion, market information, and marketing.
However, there is a need to assess the efficiency of this infrastructure,
to improve the coordi%ation among the various institutions and various
trade organizations and to develop their capability, in particular, for the
promotion of Yugoslav exports to the developing countries and the OECD
area. The responsible organs will, by May 31, 1983, form a group which
will evaluate Yugoslavia's infrastructure for promoting exports and
marketing and formulate a program which will cover activities for improving
export promotion, organization, marketing as well as the further
qualification of personnel for these tasks. It is our intention to carry
out this program by the end of 1984.
40.      Yugoslavia's export incentive system is quite comprehensive.  Its
administration is divided among several institutions at the federal,
republican and provincial levels. It needs to be rationalized so as to
encourage the expansion of efficient export activities in terms of domestic
costs, and to reflect the principles of uniformity and automaticity.
During the last two years the Federal Community of Interest for Foreign
Economic Relations, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the
Federal Secretariat for Finance have conducted a review of the various
export incentives, while draft proposals have been the subject of detailed
consideration among the republican and provincial communities of interest



- 62 -
ANNEX I
Page 18 of 24
for foreign economic relations, chambers of economy, banks and various
associations concerned. The export incentive system will be revised along
the following lines: with the real exchange rate of the dinar becoming the
main incentive for economic exports, direct subsidies granted by the
republics and provinces will gradually be phased out. Fiscal incentives,
such as direct and indirect tax exemptions and drawbacks will be the same
for all industrial branches and related to export value added and export
performance in order to encourage export specialization and exports with
high net foreign exchange earnings. Proposals are currently before the
Federal Assembly to grant exports duty-free access to imported inputs
wherever justified by the level of net foreign exchange earnings. The
revised system of export incentives will be discussed with the World Bank
at the end of 1983, prior to its implementation on JanuarX 1, 1984.
41.      It is our intention to build on the successful cooperation which
has been established between foreign enterprises and Yugoslav work
organizations by providing additional incentives for foreign investment in
Yugoslavia. We are currently engage(2 in a review of the laws regulating
foreign investment and expect modifications to this regulation before the
end of the year.
Import Liberalization
42.      The balance of payments difficulties with which Yugoslavia has
been faced for a certain period now, have made it difficult for us fully to
adhere to our long-term and essentially liberal policy of protection which
reflects a generally open trade regime with low tariff levels and few
quantitative restrictions. While tariff levels remain generally low, goods
subject to various types of quantitative restrictions account for
approximately 45% of the value of total imports, of which oil imports
accounted for 16% in 1982. This does not include the restrictions on
imports that have been enforced through the foreign exchange allocation
system.
43.      Measures are being taken to eliminate gradually this system of
quantitative restrictions, parallel with the improvement in the balance of.
payments situation. As already indicated, in our program in the area of
foreign exchange allocation a progressively greater role will be played by
the dinar exchange rate in allocating foreign ebchange. In connection with
this we intend to prepare by September 1983 a program for phased
implementation starting in 1984 with a view to reducing the value of goods
subject to any form of quantitative restrictions (excluding oil imports) to
no more than 20% of the value of total imports by the end of 1985. A study
of existing Yugoslav protection measures will also be undertaken with a
view to establishing whether further adjustments in the trade regime &re
warranted. Terms of reference for this study will be prepared by June 1983



- 63 -
ANNEX I
Page 19 of 24
(in consultation with the World Bank), and the study will be completed by
April 1985.
Price Policy
44.      As a temporary measure to control inflation, price ceilings for
all commodities except those sold on farmers markets were introduced in
July 31, 1982 and extended for another six months in January 1983. Until
January 1983 the duthority for grauting prices increases has rested solely
with the Federal Executive Council (FEC); thereafter, the authority for
granting price increases of some products and services has been transferred
to the Communities of Interest for Prices (COIPs) at the Federal,
Republican and Provincial levels.
45.      In January 1983, a Social Compact on Price Policy for 1983 was
signed establishing procedures for gradually phasing out ceiling prices of
goods and services, and in February and March 1983 the prices of some key
commodities were increased, including electricity, oil products, railway
transport and some food items.
46.      The number of commodities subject to price ceilings is being
progressively reduced in accord with the Social Compact on Price Policy for
1983. On the other hand, long-term price policies are being prepared in
the energy, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, basic chemicals,
agriculture, forestry and rail transport sectors. These long-term price
policy measures will be established at the latest by September 1983. It is
expected that the SFRY Assembly shall adopt by September 1983 the Law
amending the 1980 Law on Premises of the Price System and Social Price
Control. In accordance with the Anti-Inflation Program, it is our
intention to attachi enhanced significance to the role of world prices and
market forces in price setting and in that way enable the organizations of
associated labour in conditions of mutual linkage, interdependence and
joint responsibility to form the prices of their goods and services. In
May l983 the FEC freed a substantial share of industrial products from its
direct price control. Consequently only a limited-number of defined
commodities (e.g., petroleum and petroleum derivatives) are now subject to
direct federal control. The intention is to continue to increase the
proportion of commodities where prices are formed independently by the
organizations of associated labor and are registered with the COIPS. In
the last quarter of 1983 and 1984 we will propose the basis of price p.olicy
and our intentions of increasing the independent decision-making of the
BOALs regarding the formation of prices in accordance with the 1980 Law on
Premises of the Price System, and we will inform the World Bank immediately
thereof. Within the framework of these measures a policy aimed at
eliminating the distortions in the basic branch sectors (agriculture,



- 64 -
ANNEX I
Page 20 of 24
energy, transport, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, etc.) will be
implemented.
47.      In agriculture, only the purchase prices of major commodities are
subject to federal regulations. These are in general above world prices
and their relative prices are broadly in line with world prices. These
prices are norm&lly set each September for the coming year and will take
into account world prices and the projected dinar exchange rate over the
coming year.
48.      We have already formulated a comprehensive strategy for the
rationalization of energy production and consumption. One of the
cornerstones of this strategy is the movement of energy prices to levels
that would be at parity with world prices. The prices of domestic and
imported crude oil are now at parity and the prices of petroleum products
are at or substantially above these prices. The intention is to maintain
these prices at least at their current level in real terms by adjusting
prices periodically to world market trends, the dinar exchange rate and the
domestic rate of inflation. The price of these pr,ducts will be reviewed
at least twice a year to determine whether adjustments are required in the
light of these factors.
49.      As regards natural gas, the price of domestic gas is significantly
below that of imported gas. The intention is to move the domestic price of
gas to achieve parity with the imported price of gas by January 1987.
Towards attaining this objective the first major adjustment was made in May
i983. Further annual real adjustments in domestic gas prices will be
implemented in conformity with the long-term price policy in the sector of
energy, and we will regularly inform the World Bank of our progress in
reaching this goal.
50.      As for the pricing of lignite, coal and electricity, it is our
intention to formulate a long-term policy for achieving parity with
economic prices over a period of 4-5 years; however, in order to assist the
authorities in the formulation of the proposed policy, we plan to initiate
by September 1983 and complete by December 31, 1983, a study by JUGEL and
the Mining Association to outline the appropriate pricing methodology.
51.      Presently the average tariff for electricity is below the economic
cost of supply, depending on conditions prevailing in the individual
republics and provinces. In order to ensure that consumers use electricity
efficiently, the average tariff for electricity for all consumers will be
moved, over a period of 4-5 years, towards parity witth economic prices.
Towards attaining this objective the tariffs were increased by 25Z in March
1983. We intend to review the trend in producers prices during the period
since 4arch this year, and increase tarif.s for electricity in January 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX I
Page 21 of 24
by 15% in real terms (over the increase of producers prices during April to
December 1983). Further annual real adjustments in tariffs for
electricity, towards reaching the stated objective, will be implemented in
subsequent years.
52.      The long-term price policy in transport will provide for annual
tariff increases in the railway transportation sector above annual rates of
inflation so that, by the end of 1990, compensation payments to all Railway
Transport Organizations (RTOs) will be eliminated, with some minor
exceptions. Towards attaining this objective, railway tariffs were
increased by 17% in December 1982 and 16% in February 1983. We intend to
increase railway tariffs in January 1984 by at least 10% in real terms
(over the increase in producers prices during January to December 1983).
In subsequent years starting in 1985, railway tariffs would be increased by
at least 6% in real terms to ensure that compensation payments decline over
the previous year. For road user charges, the long-term policy is to
adjust the charges in line with inflation rates in order to provide
adequate funds for road investments and maintenance. With this orientation
in mind, we intend to earmark road user charges for road expenditures. In
addition, at the time of the increase in liquid fuel prices the portion of
these prices earmarked for road user charges will be adjusted in accordance
with the price policy in force. The Council of Republican and Provincial
Self-managing Communities of Interest for Roads will prepare, by September
1983, a study defining a program of road maintenance *nd rehabilitation
requirements.
Financial Discipline
33.      In order to strengthen financial discipline in Organizations of
Associated Labour by increasing accountability for unprofitable operation,
a Law on Rehabilitation and Dissolution of Organizations of Associated
Labour was passed in 1980. This Law established a timetable for closing
loss-making organizations which cannot obtain resources for their
rehabilitation programs. It also provides for the reduction of personal
incomes of the workers in loss-making organizations, participation by baaks
and other entities providing support for rehabilitation programs in their
design and monitoring, and for determining the causes of unprofitable
operations and responsibilities of workers, bodies of management and
managers for the losses.
54.      Draft amendments -to this Law, currently under consideration, would
further strengthen the role of banks and other organizations, which
participate in financing the rehabilitation procedures, in the design and
monitoring of rehabilitation programs, and they also provide for the
possibility of replacing and recalling managers and bodies of management.
The Social Accounting Service (SDK), which has the power to block payments



- 66 -
ANNEX I
Page 22 of 24
of personal incomes in excess of the levels set in rehabilitation programs,
will closely monitor both the financial situation of such organizations and
the execution of their rehabilitation programs. Should the bodies of
self-management fail to determine the causes of losses, fix responsibility
for such losses, and take appropriate measures to eliminate them, including
the replacement or recalling of those responsible, the draft amendments to
the Law provide for intervention by bodies of socio-political communities.
If is has not been possible to cover the-losses by the end of the year
following the year in which they were incurred, the SDK will initiate
bankruptcy procedures. (These provisions do not apply to energy generation
and coal production organizations.)
55.      In addition, amendments to the 1975 Payments Law which have now
been proposed would restrict the volume and nature of inter-enterprise
credits arising from trading operations outside the banking system. Inter
enterprise credit not covered by instruments of payment will be reduced by
50 billion dinars in 1983 as compared with 1982. It is expected that the
amendments to the above Law as well as those to the 1980 Law on
Rehabilitation and Dissolution of Organizations of Associated Labour, and a
new law designed to prevent organizations from the investing and crediting
for which they lack adequate working capital will be passed by June 1983.
56.      By December 1983 additional measures will be prepared designed to
reduce the real value of payments to cover the losses of organizations of
associated labour so thac these measures will limit the nominal value of
financial support from common reserve funds of socio-political communities
and from communities of interest to its 1983 level in both 1984 and 1985.
Energy Conservation
57.      The point of departure of our strategy for energy conservation,
substitution, rationalization and use is our Program for Energy
Conservation and Increased Use of Domestic Energy Resources. This program
has been passed by the Federal Executive Council, the Chamber of Economy of
Yugoslavia and the Standing Conference of Yugoslav Cities and Communes.
The program defines guidelines which are to be included in social compacts
and self-management agreements on energy conservation, substitution,
rationalization and consumption. The republican and provincial committees
for energy and industry have already initiated the application of the
program to concrete activities and plans to be pursued by work
organizations, especially by  ajor energy consumers.
58.      With a view to implementing this program the Federal Executive
Council hae taken a considerable number of measures, including laws and
other regulations already in force. The republics and provinces have also
developed their energy conservation programs, while organizations of



- 67 -
ANNEX I
Page 23 of 24
associatea labour have elaborated their specific conservation programs by
type of energy source and location of consumption. All these programs are
already being implemented and have already had a positive impact on energy
conservation and substit;ution. The implementation of these programs is
already reflected in tho reduction of the liquid fuel consumption of about
8% in comparison to 1979 and in the increased consumption of domestic coal
aud gas of 8% and 4% respectively.
59.      With a view to accelerating the implementation of the programs for
the rationalization of energy consumption, we intend to apply to the World
Bank for a loan which would be used for preparing studies and elaborating
projects for conservation of imported energy and its substitution by
domestic energy resources. These studies would cover those organizations
of associated labour which are major consumers of energy and which would be
interested in such studies. The organizations would be selected ir.
consultation with the Bank. The studies would be prepared by
internatioually experienced institutes which would do the job in
consultation with the Yugoslav party and in accordance with the terms of
reference to be completed by June 30, 1983 and initiated by September 30,
1983 at the latest. It is expected that the studies would be completed
within 12 months from the date of signing the contracts.
riculture
60.      In view of the importance of agriculture in our overall economic
adjustment strategy we have launched a number of initiatives to improve our
agricultural policy framework. Agricultural development issues received
particular attention in the context of the work of the Stabilization
Comission, and we expect to introduce a number of important measures to
modify our agricultural development strategy so as to reflect the revisions
of the 1981-85 five-year plan. Recently a study of the agro-processing
industry prepared under the Third Agricultural Credit Project was submitted
to the World Bank. We expect that the results of this study will be used
in preparing the revised medium-term plan for 1981-85 for agriculture and
we intend to establish teams of experts to study the problem of
agroindustrial ;apacity imbalance and prepare action programs for each
branch of agroindustry. It is our intention that these programs be
prepared in November 1983 so that the results of these studies could be
used for the adoption and implementation under the 1984 and 1985 planning
documents. In addition we are currently engaged in a joint study with the
World Bank on the question of primary production in Yugoslav agriculture.
The Bank participates in the financing of the studj. Following the
completion of this study in December 1983, we will establish additional
working groups who will be responsible for preparing, by March 1984, a
program for the phased implementation of the recommendations of the said
study.



- 68 -
ANNEX I
Page 24 of 24
Conclusion
61.      This Letter of Development Policy was prepared on the basis of
extensive and well-documented talks with World Bank missions which visited
Yugoslavia between February and April 1983, and in negotiations in
Washington in May 1983. Through this letter we are requesting a loan for
the structural adjustment of the economy. We can conclude with a sense of
appreciation that a comprehensive and complex task has been accomplished to
the satisfaction of both parties. Ve would appreciate it if you considered
our request and lent it adequate support so as to make possible timely
approval of the structural adjustment loan which would be of vital
importance for the implementatiou of our program of economic stabilization.
Jose Florjancic
Federal Secretary for Finance
hay 25, 1983
Belgrade



- 69 -
ANNEX II
CONDITIONS Or TRANCHE RELASE
SCUKDUL
Review with lRspect to ?araRraph 4
Schedule L to tbih  Lca A reoant
The Guarantor and the Banc shall review the  aures taken
with respect to:
(a) the completion of a progran of priority investmant
projects in the eaerSy sector for the period 1983 through 1985,
required to ahieve plained targets;
(b)  the  adequacy  of progress  in  eotitoing  investment
expenitures incurred during the previous six-month period;
(c) the adequacy of progress in monitoring the operation of
the syntea of foreign exchange allocation and in the fornlation
of a program aiming at au inrease of foreign exchange mobility;
(4) the adequacy of progress in the carying out of euergy
conservation studies for enterprises which shall8 have been
*seected iv consultation with the Bank  and
(e)  the adequacy of progres in finalizing: (.) the coucim"
sion of a social compact oa  the crIteria for and evaluation of
the socio-econouic justification of proposed investmets; (ii)
the  revision  of  the  Guarantor's  five-year  developmt plan
(1981-1985) including sectoral and sub-sectoral priorities; and
(Lit) the improvement of financial planning procedures in couer-
ca banks.



-70-                                                        ANNEX III
Oll                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page  1  of  6
Ir        - ,AS                   List of Criteria and Monitorable Actions
Struetural A4duastent Proarek
Sector And Policy issues                       Actien5 Alredy raken                       Stepo to be taken
I* IRV&STM? FOLICt AND RESOURCE
AJ.LOCAWZLd
Action
(a) Aevision of Inveateont Plan       There have been substanttal             The authorities are preparing a revi4ed plan for the
reductions ;n the volume of            1981-85 period to be finalized by the end of the
invasteent in the last three           year.  Submission to Parliament of the tevi4ed 1981-85
yearse  with especially deep cuts      Plan is a condition of the second treach. release.
impows4 on non-economic                Plea revistone are likely to assume continued
inveamente.  Strict budgetary          laplemencation of stabilisetion policiec and
controls will be implesented           restraente on the level of investmen.  tt is expected
during 1983 curbing invesctent          that, vhen taken together vith investment cuts in 1981
expenditures in non-economic           and 1982, the volume of fixed investomnt wilt be
activities.  For economic              20-252 lower than in the original five-year plan.  The
activities new investment laws         detail. of the proposed Amendments to the plan, with
restrict the access of                 particular emphasis on the main development objectives
non-priority investors to bank         and the priority sectors for investment, will be
crcdit for financing cost              submitte4 to the Dank no later than the end of
overruns and raise                     September for diecussion in October/bovember along
self-financing requirements tor        with the first semi-annual report on investmenc (see
nwo projects.  They are expected       below).  tn addition, prior to adopting the annual
to lead to & significant real          resolutions on econemiC policy for 1984 and 1985, the
reduction in invostment                Dank will be infored4 on the content and m*creconamic
expondituzes in non-priority           assumptions em wbich the resolutions are bsed. vith
itnvetsents.                           particular stress em the growth of investment, its
finecieg, and its SecCoral *lloceti*o in the relevant
year. ftere will be a ftull discussion and exchange of
views betusem the Doak end the appropriate authorities.
Work ha  beu oe   improvinU the system of monitorins
investment approals and. expenditure, in both now snd
ongoing projeuts.  Doginming Agus8   198e  the
Cer_Isat will issue semi.annsel reports oe
invaestmst vhich will showt (i) sectoral allocation
of insvetment expenditures iL relation to annual plan
targetal (ii) expendituree on individual large
projects with a view to d4ttewiaing whether priority
activities are accords4 preference; (iii) informatio
on new projects including projected economic rates of
return on all projects exceeding 70 million diners in
1983 prices (from April 1984). Beginning in June 1984
these reports will be issued on a q4etteriy bAsis.
Thes reports will be providel to the Bank for
discussion. Submission of the first such report to
the Dnk is a condition of the second trenche release.
Program Develotment
For Larte Projects
(b) leorogreaming of Indtvidual       At the project level individual         The Yugoolav authorities have prepared a project list
Investsents to Improve Qualicy  re7ublics and provinces nave -           of onSoing projects exceeding 750 million dinsrs in
of Ougoins Invetoent Prolram  been reexamining theLr                     value (sbouc 50: of investaent progran) for inclusion
inveetment program to reassess         in che monitoring tyst#m described sbove.  As a
the desirability of individual         condition of second cranche rolease, the authorities
investments.  Hovever, there is        will define a progras of priority investment projects
no federal level agreement on          in the energy sector for the period 1983-83, required
the rephasing of major projects,       to Achieve planned targets (the core investmant
program in energy).
Program Development
(a) tGOW74SFrrejeet Selnttion         Sew logislation imposes stricter        rhe institutional mechanism for evaluating projects is
aM&Gesedisatio                    controls on the sources of              to bo strengthened.  Chambers of economy, banks and
financing that must be secured        o*che  signatories vill &aree on minimum uniform
prior to initiation of                 investment criteria, including minimum economic retes
investment, ta:ludinj mandatory        of return (differing by sector), calculated according
minmaeum ssli-  snc:g by the           to the lank wethodology, for projects tn the economic
investor7 cn a s.idtng scale,          sectors through a special Social Compact on Uniforu
which varites  v prposa of             Investment Criteria to be pssed by June 193.  Tho
invesrcen:.  3,n, Teoruery 1983        Compact will establish inter-agency groups, attached
new investz*nc ^rpoials must be        to the Chsmbers of Economy, to "give opinions" on
regiatere4 o:h reg;inal or             proposed proje4ts taking into account Agreed
federal Cm =ztrs of lcCro.y            criteria.  Conclusion of te compact vill be a
(depanding on project size) t*         condition of second tranche release.  Dy December
enable other enterprises to            1983, Paderal and regional Chambers of Econoey and
comeont on desirability of             banks will prepare personnel and training tecruitment
project.  Yugoslav Banks               progrms to provide nacecsary Staff capacity for
Association fYSA) has deveLoped        improving idvestment review procedures with a view to
a new manual for projecc               having sufficient .e ained staff in plece to fully
valuateaon (largely based on           implement these investment review procedures oy
DanI materials).                       Dembeg 1984.



ST ° iO                                      - 71 -                                                      ANNEX III
<;LA*                                                                                                                 Page 2 of 6
Structural Adjustment Pro,ra,
Sector and Policy I      s 6... Actions Already Taken                                         Stepe to be Taken
1. INVESItENT POLICY AND RESOURCE
ALLOCATION (continued)
(d) Industrial Restructuring                                                     Studies for restructuring of selected industrial
eubsectors are to be initiated with the World Sank.
The modalities of the studies would be discussed in
September 1983 vith the Bank.
(e) Investatnt Incentives               Interest rates on long term               If inflation rate exceeds 202 during thr first halt of
deposits have been increased by          1983 the Government will review interest rate levels
between 10 and 18 percent in the         vith the IMF vith a view to introducing further upward
poet 12 months to a range of             Adjustments during 1983.
13-28 percent, thus
significantly raising the cort           Agremeat to reach positive rates for intermediated
of funds to borrovera of bank            funds by gradual increases in minimum lending rates to
resources.                               achieve poaitive lending levels for non-economic
activites by beginning of 1986 and for economic
activities with certain exceptions by the beginning of
1987. Exceptions for (a) export credits, (b) short
term credita of the National Sank of Yugoslavia for
agriculture, (e) credits for primary agricultural
production and (d) investment credits for priority
activities in the revised 5 year plan, (e) special
funds for leas developed reSions. During 1983-85 the
value of (c), (d) and (e) vill be limited to 2S
percent of the total annual investment. From 1986
more favorable rates on investment credits can be
applied to only 25Z of total investment credits of
domestic benks. For items (c) and (d) positive
intereat rates by the beginning of 1989.
Action
Additional legislation vill be intreduced by December
1983 to stimulate foreign investment.
Action
(f) Improving Financial Planning    Discussions between the Y3A and              Under the present Law on Planning banks prepare
bank staff vere initiated during         investment plane on basis of constant prices.
preparation of Industrial Credit         Inflationary movements are not Adequately accounted
VI project.                              for lauding to unealistic planning, and frequent
underfinancing of specific investment projects.  By
the and of 1983 the necessary methodology will be
developed to enable the banks to make their financial
snd operational projections at current prices,
starting in 1984. Progress in this area will be a
condition for releasing the second tranLhe. Starting
at the end of 1983 the Federe' Planning Institute,
with the assistance of other competent federal bodies,
vill provide essumptions oh future inflation end
exchange rate movements for use by financial
inscitutions in their financial and operational
planning.
Action
Improvements of the financial baae and accountability
of bankt are nesM.  Under tbo Credit and  tanking taw
of 1978, btoiee4     smintain a Joint
Liability Aw  a         hieke    te used to write off
bad debts.  1     n||.at be iW  lees than 3? of the
banks' total t         vnit  at the end of the pmeceding
year. The same lv requires that ct!t banks should
create a Reservo Fund to maintain their liquidity.
The Fund should be increased to 32 of total
investment, by investing out of the banks' net income
a sum equivalent to a minimum of 0.32 of their to:.l
inveskmetnts. A number of Yugoslav banks are current'?
in breach of both requtrements. Sceps will be taken
for all banks to 'ully mueet these reouirements in a
phased fas1hion over a period of several years (6 years
in the case of the ILF). in addition, the provisinn
of the 1983 Annual Plan Resolution vhich requires the
baenk not to use zore then 20: of theit short-term
resources for long-term loans will be maintained.



- 72 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 6
Structural Ad;ust:ent Program
Sector and Policy Issues                        Accions Already Taken                      Steps to be TAken
Lt.  FOREIGN EXCX(NCO  ALLOCATtCN AdD
EXTELSAL -tADS
1. General
Acteon
(a) Exchange Race                      A gradual depreciation of dinar         The Government intends to ensure continued
during 1982. together with step         cofpetitiveness of the Yugoslav economy through a
devaluation of 202 in October           program of continuous exchange rate adjustments.
1982 produced 122 (year on year)
real devaluation in 1982.
Program Development
(b) Foreign Exchangs Allocation        The 1978 Law on Foreign Exchange        A monitoring group has been established by the Federal
Operations and Foreign Credit           autharitie, to accesse the effects of the nev
Relations was substantially             arrangements.  The group's terms of reference have
mended in December 1982 vith a          been agreeo  with the lank.  The group will report to
viev to promortinS interregional        the Federal gxecutive Council (FEC) by September
foreign exchange mobility.              1983.  The report vould be available for discussion
Howver, the likely effecta of           with the Bank atn the IH, and vill inclade a progras
the new lav ere at yec difficult        of activities to improve foreign exchange mobility by
to gauge, given its recent              undertaking necessary measures for reactivating the
implementation.                         domestic foreign exchange market end more liberal
procedures for stimulating or8amizations with surplus
foreign exchange to sell it to deficit organixatione.
Following these diseussions the modalities for
implementing revised procedures resulting from the
report will be decided. Submitsion of the report to
the Bank will be a condition of release of the second
tranche.
Action
(c) Monitoring of Foreign              The Ne- -nal lank of Yugoslavia         NBY will take necessary measures (including provision
Borrowing and Debt                (0BY) has been engaged for come          of staff and financial measures) to ensure that the
Information                       time in a program to computerize         ccoputerized system of debt reporting is fully
its debt reporting system; it           operational and capable of providing analytically
has also worked closely with the        usable infcrs rion by the end of 1983.  By July 1,
IN? and the cormercial banks to         1953, the Dank will agree with the NSY on reporting
improve the quality of the data         formats and a timetable that will provide a suitable
on Yugoslavia's current debt            test of the systeo  while providing information of use
situation.                              to the Yugoslav authorities and the Dank.
2. 'Export Incentives
Action
(a) Access to imports                  Law introduced -in October 1982         A permanent revolving "Export Development Fund" (EDF)
giving priority in foreign              vxill be established with SAL funds !o provide imports
exchange allocation to exporters        to exportirg enter;rises.  Creation of the ED? will be
with *ig.aed export tontiacts.          a condition of loan effectiveness.  In addition to the
proceeds of the SAL the EDF shall be enlarged with
foreign exchange permanently purch.aed from exporters
that heve benefited from ED? re4ourcss. The ED? will
be further augmenced in 1984 and 1985.
Action
(b) Is4reasing Yugoslav Export         Yugoslav 3Ank for International         The YJIEC has prepared pro ections of its resotrce
Credits                           Economic Cooperstion (Y311C)             needs to meet the dem4n4 .or refinancing mediue antd
esttblished 1980.                       long term export credit up to i085.  ThA necess.ry
fin.sncial resources vill be made available by the
banks, the NSY and other appropriate  ources in the
annual Plan Recolution for 14!4 and 1985. .A action
plan vill be orepared by October 1983 to etrei.gthen
YSTIEC's institutionel capability, particularly in the
area of 2srket in Zormation for rapital goods and
engineering exporcs. Saceia4ry instttutional ane
staffing changes will be izplezented by September 1984.
?ouram Doeveloo=ent
(a) Ixport Marketing                                                           A vorking group has beer established to prepare by no
later than March 1984 an acticn plan to strengthen
Yugoslavie's expost marketing errangemente. Ia. plean
wil be reviewed and diacussed vitC  the World Dank in
March 1984.  lce^ery inotitutional and staffing
chengne will be completed by the end of 1984.



73 -                                           ANNEX III
,. >>n                                                                                           Page 4 of 6
Structural Adjustment Protra_
Sector 4nd Policy IOSues                         Action. Already Taken                         Steps to be Taken
,                                                               _
IOUG CII tCiAJIG ALLOC'ATIOh AND
UTZLBAL TADS (continued)
Act ion
(4) Str4aghtenifg Export                During thc post two years the             The export incentive #?scea  will be revistd to
IncnitLves                         Federel Communciy on  Interest            encourage the expnonson ot efficient exporc eceivities
(or foreign Economic lelatLons            n terue of domeecic cost, and to retlecc che
(CIlLI), the Federal Secretariat          prtnciples of untformity and automaticity.  vith the
for Foretgn Trade end the                real exchange rcte beooming the main incentive to
Fedoral Secretariat for Finance           economic exports.  Dtrect export subsodies (gS-nced by
have conducted a review of the            the republics and provtnces) vill be gradually phased
various export ticentives.                out.  Fiscel incentives (such as direct and indirect
tax exompcions) wvit be the ease for all industrial
branchoe end related to: export value added (net
foreign exchange eornings).ind export performance
(minimu, ratio of export to output). This vill
encourage export specialization anrd exports with high
noc toreign exchange serntngs. Ducy free access :o
imported isports for exporters will be provided
vhenever juetified by the level of nec foreign
exchange earninge. Proposela for revicion in the
axport incentive syette will be reviewed by the 8ank
in November 1983.  New export incentives vill be
introduced in the 1984 annual plan resolution.
Program Development
3.  tmoort Liberalitation               SUnce 1971 therr hac been a               preparation of program for phased import
ciganidcant reduction in the             liberelixation pari passu with liberalization of
ahbro  ot isport. oubject to             foreign  exchange allocation.  Government to prepare
quantacive rectrictions and               progrm proposals by Sopctmber 19S3 for implementation
quotas requiring approval of the          in 1984 and 1985 with * view to limiting the velue of
Federal Sectatoriet for Foroign          como4ittee subject to quancitative restriction to a
Trade.  Betwecn 1977 and 19S2            maximum of 202 of total import. (excluding oil
the proportion of non-oil                 imports).
imports subjec: to quantitative
restrictions declined from 421            Stud,
to 292 of total isports.
Mowever, the ipeact of thie               The Yugoolcv authorities vill prepare a study of
libaralization has been ngosted          effective protection showing the etffct of trade cnd
by de facto restriction. on uos           payments restrictions on the deoseti- price struccure
of toreig  exchange.                     (for cOnpeltio.A by April 1985).  Terms of reference
for this etudy have been agreed with the Sank. The
results of the etudy will be used to shape cemercial
policy for the 1986-90 period.
1.. PRICE POLICY
Action
UJnder a temporery priec control          Under the Social Compact on Price Policy for 198), the
lav poased in July 1982 price            number of comoditiea subject to price ceilings is
ceilings vere introduced on all          being progressively reduced.  Long-term price policies
mocodities except for produce             are being prepared in th, energy, ferrous and
*ol4 in forers markeat.  Until           nonferrous metallurgy. busic chemicals, atricultur*.
January 1983 the authority for            forestry  and rail transport sectors to h>  finalized by
$ranting price inreases had             September 1983.  Sy 3epteaber 1983 Federal Assembly is
restod vith the FPC.                     expected to adopt the Lav  enmoding the 1980 Law or, the
Thereafter, the cuthority for             Price Sysces to: (i) subitentcilly increase the role
granting price ticreases for             of vorld prtces and market forces crd (it) reduce the
come pro4ucte has been                   number of cormodities eub:ecc to the roviev of the
treotfered to ComunitLe   fot            COls for Prices.  in 'May 1)83 the rsc freed a
taeorest (COlS) tor Prices at            subatAnttal snare of indi:ttal products f!om tts
the Federal, Republican and              ditect control,  Only a itxttei number of defined
Provincial levels,  However,             cimoditieo  (e.g. petroleum end petroleus dertvative)
inflation hat not moderatcd4              ar  now subject to dtrect federal cootrol.  The
cignifieoncly since the                  intention over the sodium-term is to conttnue to
incroduction of these new                increase the proporcton of comod4iltes where prices
measures and progrpse in                  are set independentlv by Orgenisetione of Associated
toducing discortion. betwvon the         Labor (OALs), and are subo ::  only to registration
relative Pr-ce etructure in              wich ths COle for Pr:tsa.  Tius intention will be
Yugoalsvwi  and world p-rtce  has         reflected in proposals to ba male in the laest juarrr
been dt4a|Potncing.  la January          of l9A3 sad  i84 reia-ding Pr c- policy im the
1993, a Social Ccvpact on Prite           for:hcmisng usr.  Przv,sion* 'sevt also been  a&de for
Poliey for 1)23 was signed, and           an exthanoe of vies, ,etveen tcs Stnk and the tugoslav
itn  ebruary Cte price ceilirgs          authorities on the orogress of pr:ce I.berali:ation in
on some key ccomo4itiea,                 the last quarter of each vear,  A rtxttable vill bt
inclu4dig electriity, oil                  lgreed by Septezaer 1783 for furcher liberalisation in
prod;cro, railwvy                        o984 and 1985 sue  tnot by t.eceober 198' only a
transportston, rents and sone             limited numoer of dei-ted toonodittse  of e?ettal
food  Itevs vera rAea by  nt             soztel  ignii:nce wl re .soe:t to ce reviev of
aversag  of about 211.                    the COla for Pr;tces.
(a)  Aricultur..  Purclase pr:cr5 of major
cooditite  subject to fede-  rtgijtatin irt
geneor4lv above world prices and relative priced are
broadly in line vith worid pitces. PrLc*s are
normally set in September for the coming year %n4 will
take into sacount wot.C priz*e and projected exchangS
race changes.



74                             ~~~~~ANNEX III
Page 5 of 6
Structural Adji4tmene Proira3
Sector and Policy tesues                       Actions Already Taken                       Steps to be taken
PRICE POL'CY (continued)
(b)  !nervy.  Prtss of J.nqescic and iaporced crude
oil are eurrenct- at pa:ity end petroleum proaucts are
substantially above vorlJ pritee. This price
structure vill o st least matntained in real terms by
adjuating prices periodically to vorld market trends.
Che dinar exchange race And domesti: inflation.  the
prices of the products will be reviewed at least twice
a year to determine whether adjustments are required
in the light of these facto-s. tn the case of natural
&as, the internal price of domestic gas is
significantly below that of itported gas. Priese of
domescic gts will be Lncrees*d to achieve parity with
the imported price by January 1987. Towards reaching
this objective the first a4jor adjustment vas made in
May 1983. Further annual reel adjustments, in the
prices of domestic gas vill be implemented in
conformity witn the long-term price policy. after
exchange of vievs vith the Vorld Bank. In the case of
lignite, coal and electricity the intention is to
formulatea *long-term Policy for achieving parity vith
economic pricec over a period of 4 to 5 years.
Detailed terms of reference have been agreed between
the Bank and the Yugoslav authorities on a study aim*d
at setting a pricing methodology for coal, lignite and
electricity. The study will be initiated in September
1983 end cotepleted by end 1983. The results of the
study and the receamwnd6d pricing measures vould be
discuosed and revieved with the Bank in January 1984.
Further, in the case of electricity tariffs, the
average tariff vill be moved toward parity with the
long-term marginal cost of supply over a 4-5 year
period (implyiog, on average, a 100 percent increase
in real term), Towverds reaching this objective
prices will be increased by 15t in reel terms (over
the increase of producer prices during April-December
1983) in Janruary :984. Further annual real
adjustuents in tariffs vill be implemented i..
subsequent years, whose level would be annually agreed
with the World bank prior to the increases being put
into affect.
(e) Transport Railway tariffs will be increased
in real terms each year so that coopensation payments
to Railvay Transport Organtzations are eliminated,
with minor exceptiona, by the end of 1910. Towarde
this objective railway tarif!3 are to be increased in
January 1984 bv at least ;0  in real terms (over the
increase of preducer prires 4uring january-De:eemer
1983). From 1935 to :439, ralwavy tariffs will be
incrtased by at least jS :n real :ers every January
to ensure thet compensat'Ln PO"ents decline over che
previous year, fter an excoengs of views with the
bank. Reed user charges vill be adjusted in line with
inflation, to provide adequate funds for road
investment and maintenance. The ouncil for
Republican and Provincial Self-4anaging Cccuunities of
Interest for loeds vill prepare, by September 1983, 
study defining a program of road maintenance and
rehabilitation requiremente.
IV.  FIN&AMCLAL D1iSCPLNE
Action
Law on R*habil.:4tatn and               The following le;is'ettve measures are to be passed by
Dissolution oS Organizations of         June 1)83z  () Ame Iments to the Sankrupt:y Law which
Aseiia:ed Laejr oa  !;a3               vill strengthen :-e role )f   xr:et,al :relitors in the
(CAnkruptcy Law') etsatlish*s           design, execution and monLtoring of rehabilitation
aut=aStic ti=4tP:te 'Jr : oslen         p:ograms which will give t:e SSK the right of
loss-making enterprises whn:h           iniziation of bankruptcy procecures; (ii) amendzents
cannot arrsage !insnc-tl support        to the Lav on Payzenta of  W5 deoigned to restrict
prograas.  Lav :n Social                inter-enterprise ered4ts arising from trading
Accounting Service (SD)                 ojeretions outside the banking oystem.
modified to enable :t to enforce         nAter-enterprise credit not covered by instruments of
incomes policy.                         payment vill be reduced by 50 billion dinars ir. 1483
so compared with 1982; (iii) a new law preventing
investment in enterprises vith insufficient working
capital will be passed.



_ 75 -                                    ANNEX III
Page 6 of 6
Structural Adiustment Program
Sector and Policy Issues                        Actions Already Taken                       Steps to be Taken
FINAMCtAL DISCIPLINE (continued)
Program Devloapment
Establishment of control mechanism to limit aggregate
value of payments from coson reserve funds of
sociopolitical coomunities and COIs to cover operating
costs in loss making enterprises. Government will
prepare by December 1983 a program to monitor and
maintain scope of such interventions at their nominal
level in 1983 in 1984 and 1985. This vould imply a
significant decrease in the value of such
interventions in real terms.
V. SECTOR  POLICIES
Studies/Program Development
(a) Energy Conservation                National Program for Energy
Conservation has been passed;            The Federal Committee for Energy and Indu.try will be
program defines guidelines which         responsible for preparing a program of energy
are to be included in social             conservation studies of enterprises which shall have
compacts and self-management             been selected in consultaton vith .he Bank, which may
agreewents on energy                     bo financed in part by a $15 million Sank loan.
conservation, subatitution,             Agreement vith the Bank on the terms Or reference for
rationalization and                      these studies will be a condition of release of the
consumption.  Measures have been         second trancbe.  These studies are expected to be
taken to convert factory and             initiated by September, and would take no more then
home heating from oil to                 twelve months to complete.
domestic coal;  electric Fovar
for domestic use is being
rationed and petrol ration
coupons have been introduced for
passenger vehicles. Sank
missions have visited Yugoslavia
to examine energy use patterns
in steel, cement, and refining
subsectors.
Program Development
(b)  Agricultural Investment           A study of Agricultural                  Action programs for each branch of agroindustry will
Processing Industry focuasing on         be prepared by November 1983 and discussed with the
probless of excess capacity was          bank.  The results of these studies and programs would
submitted to Bank in December           be used for adu4ption in and implementation of the 1984
1982.                                   and 1985 Annual Plan Resolutions.
Studies
(c)  Agricultural Production           Yugoslav authorities have agreed         Completion of Primary Production Study, December 1983.
to terms of reference of a joint
study vith the sank of Primary           Program Development
Agricultural Production. Bank
financed regional development           Yugoslav au.horities vill begin phased implementation
projects aimed at strenXthening         of recomendations of Primary Production Study by
cooperation between social and           March 1984.  Measures vill include (i) improved
individual sectors are under            marketing arrangements, (ii) better access for
preparation.                             individual sector producers to agricultural inputs,
(iii) increased availability of financing for on-farm
investments, (iv) improvements in applied research and
extension arrangenents, (v) increases in regional
budget and allocations for proooting e.ndividual sector
development, (vi) meesJres to accelerate land
consolidation activities.



ANNEX IV
- 76-                               Page 1 of 2
List of SAL-Related Missions
Report
Mission Date(s)           Staff                 Sector                   Date
Mar 1983             R. Knighton           Transport                 Mar 30, 1983
U. Margraff
J. McCombie
Feb-Mar 1983         J. Mulckhuyse        Appraisal/Energy           Jun 6, 1983
Conservation in
Industry
May-Jun 1983          (1) S. Bery          Economic                  Jun 23, 1983
(2) F. Kilby        Economic                   Jun 30, 1983
JUNE 7, 1983, LOAN APPROVAL
Jun-Jul 1983          I. Elwan             Energy                    Sep 16, 1983
Sep-Oct 1983         U. Margraff           Railways                  Oct 14, 1983
Oct-Nov 1983          (1) F. Laporte       Export Development        Nov 23, 1983
J. Gowen        Fund Operations
F. Kaps
(2) S. Bery         First Tranche Review       Jan 9, 1984
(3) I. Elwan         Energy                    Feb 6, 1984
Dec 1983              IMF (Bery            Foreign Exchange
participated)        Review
Mar 1984             S. Bery               Partially SAL Review      Apr 20, 198>
C. Pant
(w/ Lari, Fernandes,
Colaco & Jalil)
May 1984             G. Gowen              EDF/Textile Subsector    Jun 22, 1984
May 1984             W. Grais              IMF - FX system           May 31, 1984
Social Compact
May 1984              F. Kaps              General/Tranche           Jun 6, 1984
(w/ Chaufournier,   Release/Social
Fernandes)           Compact



-77 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
Report
Mission Date(s)           Staff                 Sector                   Date
Jun-Jul 1984         W. Grais              IMF - FX system           Jul 17, 1984
SAL I & II
Sept 1984            W. Grais              SAL I & II
J. Harrison
Oct 1984             W. Grais              SAL I &                   Nov 8, 1984
SAL II Identification
Nov 1984              G. Gowen             Tranche Release           Nov 28, 1984
March 1985           R. Fernandes          SAL I & II
W. Grais
J. Harrison
May-Jun 1985          K. Nadkarni          Cement, Chemicals,        Jun 13, 1985
J. Mulckhuyse        Steel and Engineering
Subsectors
Nov 1985              R. Fernandes         Review of SAL I before   Jan 9, 1986
W. Grais             EDF discussions of SAL
J. Ingram            II Appraisal
C. Pant
G. Michel
R. Knighton
J. Yaron
K. Dervis
J. Harrison
Jun 1986             J. Ingram             EDF                        Jun 25, 1986
(3002Hp4S-46)



- 78 -                                TABLE 1
EDF
APMWDa        r SIL
(Ms Million)
Trnch I I                    TrhII   _         Ot
Mecturing of iniAbed Teztiles          59,990,636.83    80,261,924.38   33,501,164.01   173,753,725.22  22.26
linAwbw of Fabricated ?tal Products    3,549,367.00    17,405,027.38    3,911,273.75    24,865,668.13   4.19
KIctwjim E.lectrical Mchurmy           42,418,189.03    49,825,246.75   21,608,807.60   113,852,243.38  19.17
I'knfactwiig bi-utal Mn. & prd.
Suitimg, Blfinbrg   mewtals             4,776,274.07     982,647.63    3,764,503.14   9,523,424.84   1.60
Ikmzfecturing Footeow &  amther Q xds   6,647,901.12    24,069,432.67    2,944,170.15    33,661,503.94   5.67
NauufactUriDg TAansport Euipmt          9,242,037.81    22,496,122.41   15,671,887.09    47,410,047.31   7.98
a ichiuy ftr lhcessing
of Woods & materials                         -        4,999,829.64                  499           0.84
M&n-Fiwr (re Mindin  waufactwre        13,395,285.98    51,680,357.34    1,682,092.39    66,757,735.71  11.24
nWffecturXng RFer                      13,605,981.56    18,813,159.47   860,84D.48    33,279,981.51   5.60
Mzlfistlurug PMiscellaneous Products    1,995,444.00    4,488,566A42    3,659,782.20    10,143,792.62   1.71
ken & Steel Basic Industries            8,617,454.53    18,569,80546    2,477,274A46    29,664,534.45   5.00
MSsfacbaringW *t2iml.ca                 3,456,306.40    3,230,679.68    1,958,146.74  8,645,132.82   1.46
)biuaftiwctumgFood P roducts              605,148.64     703,355.00     536,830.00    1,845,333.64   0.31
Ibmifacbwirg k'bhiunezy                 4,402,033.21    3,286,683.00    1,562,913.00  9,251,629.21   1.56
hmaifatrng Paper                        1,612,153.82    3,890,802.77    1,549,196.61  7,052,153.20   1.19
Ship Building                                 -         8,089,124.57    4,031,193.86    12,120,318A43   2.04
Tbscom Mauf6cttwing                           -         6,118,183.69         -        6,118,183.69   1.03
Printing & Publishing                         -618846.00                279i924.52      898,770.52   0.15
TUrAL                  174,314,214.00   319,529,794.26  100,000,000.00   593,844,008.26 100.00
Jie 11, 1986 (date of original table)
Translator: 'Vojic:ga
554%2



- 79 -                              TABLE 2
SUMMARY LIST OF SAL C.ONDITIONS AND UNDERTAKINGS
ITEM                                         STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
Met     Partiallr Met      Not Met
1.  EDF                                      X
2. investment
Investment Shift                                     x
Investment Reporting                                 % *
Core Investment Plan                                                 x
Social Compact Investment
Criteria                                           X
Interest Rates Adjustment                            X *
Sector Studies                                       X £L
Current Pricing by banks                             X *
3. Foreign Exchange & Foreign Trade
Exchange Rate Adjustments             X
Foreign Exchange Mobility                                            X
Foreign Debt Monitoring                              X *
Foreign Trade Liberalization                                         X
Effective Production Study                                          X
4. Pricing
Petroleum Prices                      %
Gas Prices                            X
Coal & Lignite                                                       x
Electricity Pricing                                  X
LRMC Study                                                           X
Railway Tariffs                       X
Road User Charges                                    x
5. Financial Discipline
Personal Income Payments                             X
Inter-enterprise Capital                                            X
6. Agriculture Sector Studies
Agro-industry Study                                  X
Pricing Production Study              X
6   i' lk '      7
* Has been a retreat from progress made earlier.
ao Of which 1 regressing.
Of which 5 regressing.
co Only I of 5 studies has been submitted to date.
(30 tOHp27)



RCA 4448                           - 80 -
248423 WORLDBANK
44Sf                    ATTACHMENT I
es  do,                    Page 1 of 4
SAVETNl S';vKRIi-1ANLJAT                 bo Alt'
ZA FINANSIJE                   (        QA4
BROJ. 212i4               
I4EOGRADJ 8,6,1987. 6.
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM
THE FEDERAL SECRETARIAT OF FINANCE
ArT: MR. AlFXANDFR NtiWTCKIP DIVISION  CHIFF, OPIR4HA1INS EVAltUATION
lEFPART 0I.:4NT
RE: REMARKS TO AND SUGGESTIONS FUR THE PRHOHAM  PERFORMANCE AlDIJT
REPORT ON Y.)SI.RLAVIA - S%.A (LOAN 2.:424-YIJ)
IN LANE WITH YOUR REQUFST PIS F:Nr' BE.LOW THE FOltLOWING REMAKRS TO
AND Sl)l;(ESlTIONS FOR THt ABOVE RvPok r WHX('H W)FRE PREPARt.D T063WTHER
WITH COMPETFNT FFDERAI FNTT1IES.
PARI (,NE
IN SOME PARTS THE REPORT ASSFSSES OUR SOCJ0-PljTIC'AI. SYSIEM  IN
OIJR VIEW THE: REPORT SHOULD..II EXCL.AItJIELY FCIWS ON AND ElABOl)RATE THE
FINANCIAL ASPFCTS OF THF SAL UTILJ/AIIl)N. WEr HO)WFVEFR  INSIST THAT
Al-L. 'I)MMENTS OF THIS TYPE )4: F.Xtl..UI)D  FRO1M THE REPO)RT, EN THIS CON-
TEXT WE ARF PARTICULARLY PCIJNT)Nl;  I IHt PAhTS OF 1HF RFPt:RT WHICH
SHI)IJI.: 1HIF FX(J;JF:Ct AN)I/OR RFFlhRIMlJl.ATT l0
Text     ONF. IN PARA, 2. OF IHF RFF'IIR'T THF FINAL PARNI lIF' 1HF FOtURTH SFNTENC
modified. E
READING:  'Atli 1HF POWER OEf THF FEDERA  Li(1VFRNHMFNT WAS REDUCED
. ..9FRY'' SHOULD Bl  E l'EI.JlA:i1,
Iext     TWO. IN PARA. 4 IN THF LAST SFNTFNCE THF PAREf REAXI1Nl4  'KHERE DE-
modified.CISIONS ARF: OFNFRAI.l.Y TAKEN ON THE   Sf5' OF A CONSEN'SS' SHO3UJLD BE
DELETFD.
rext     THRFF  I'1 PARA 51. OF THF RFPORT AT THF   OF THF SFCONI' SFN'IFNC'F
modified THEE WOtRE.1T 'T'W,O ):,ECADIFS' S)HOIL10 )BF REPLAGF1t sY 'THERTY-FIVE
YEARS'.
Text     FOLUR. IN PARA 56* OF THF RFPORT TWO LAST 51UNTFN:FNC% SHOIJLII BE DFLE-
modified. TEED.
Text mod.FIVF, IN PARA 52 OF THF REPORT THF LASI S1-NTFN('F SUl4itlD 9F  IFLFTED.
Text mod.SIX, ).N PARA 70, O1F- flE RrEPORC THE EAST SENTENt'(,F !iHOIJ1.0 BE 0ELETFED.
Footnote SEVFN. . N PARA 74. OF THE RFPOR'l THI THIRD SFNTFN('F SHOtII11 FE
added.   DEIF  E t                                     a
"i  * EIGHT. PARA 76. SHPUtI 1 BE FUillY IEFLFTFr.
to  it  NIN H.* PARA 7'a ;HOlJL.:  3f': FUL-.L..Y IF1.FT..Td.1*
Footnote TFN. IN PARA 81 THF LAST SENTFNCF SHNOt)A PC: 1DEl FTFI.
added.



- 81 -                        ATTACHMENT I
rage 2 of 4
PARY TWO
YOUR COMMENT IN THF REPORT ON THF ECONOMJC DEVELOPMENT IS REALLY
GRO)IJNOL.ES5  IN THIS CONNECTION WF WIANI' TO P)OINT TO THE FOLLOWING.
Text    1) YOUR VIEW CONTAINFD TN PARA 34 OF THF REPOR'IT THAi' FlITHFR lETE-
modified.RIIJRAIlION IN 1HE MAJOR ECONOMIC TNDITATORS W4AS RE.(iSTRED IN 1986
IS INCORRECT. IN THIS YEAR# NAMELY, AFTFR A THFRFF-YFAR LONG STAGNA-
TIONP A R1t'St: OF THE X(JIAL PRODIPTC HTIHE`R tHAN 3 (THREE) PFRCENT WAS
REGISTERED' AS WFll Aa A SIIRPtL llS IN THF BAL ANt:E OF PAYMFNTS OF
USDOlL. 245 MIL.LION, THE. PHYSRICAl. V0k.lJMIE OF INDUJSTRIAL OIJJ'TPIJT ROSE
BY 3P9 PCT IN RFLAI'TJIN TO 19H5 AND EMPLOYMkN1T BY 3 II/L,
THE COIIMMENT ON THE INFLATION RAT F ( O. THE SAME PARA13RAPH, SHOULD
BE SUPPLEMFNTED BY SAYING THAT THIS RATF WAS PAkrIAL.lY THE RFSULT
OF A.JJl'SrMENT OF PRITCE DISPARITIES IN ENEROY AND
TRANSPORT* THF COMMFNT GIVFN IN THE LAST S5FNTFN(;t. OF THIS
PARAIURAPH  ACCt)RDXN6 1T.) WHICH THE INCREASE OF CONSUJMPTIO)N WAS
SUPPORTED BY INADFOUATF FINANCIAL DISCtIPlI.NF  SHOliLD
BE Al.-SO AMENDEb, THE XB9RM  3:IECEMBE.R 1984 MISSO11N WHICH WAS IN
YUGOSLAVIA HIGHLE.Y ASSFSSFD THF GOVERNMFNT MFASLlR&S
AIME0 ATr IMPROY tN's THE FINANCIA.. tIDSC1[Pl_(NF.
2) THF LAST SFNTFCF OF PARA,849 SHOULD Bt 1EI.A'11FDls AS 1N IHE
PRECEDINO moNrHS OF THIS YEAR POSTIVIE (CHANOIES XN THE MATERIAL
F'RODUCTION TRFNDS OCCfIURHDI  AS WFI AS IN THF AREAS OF HARD
CURRENCY EXPORTS AND CONSIIMPTION,
I                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
3) IN PARA  54 T1HE L-AST ISENTENCE SHOlULJLO BE PELEtEn AS INTERVENTION
MEASURES INTROIlDICED IN FfBRUARY '87 DII, NOT RESUL.T IN A
Text    'WA6E: FREEZE'* BlTl RATHF R tN OBLIGATION TI) HAVE THE RISE
moceified.OF WAGES ADJUSTFD TO THF lABOLIR PRODUCTIVIJIY RISE ANDi/OH RFAL
MAI'ERtAI. PS1SXBXI..XTXES, IN THE PRICE ARE:A ONLY THE PRIEfS WHOSE
RISE WAS IN FXCFSS OF THF INFLATION RATE RIS1E WFRENRFDLlCFD,
4) IN PARA $2 OF THE REPORT THE FiRS"r liFNTFNC_ SHOIJIUD BE REFORhU-
Footnote LATED. NAMFlYP THF ECONOMIC MFASLIRFS AND REFORMS IMPlEMFNTED FOR
adde%d-  FIJTHERt-  IMPROVEMENT OF THI: Pl,CONOMXc' sYsTE.M PROVJI,:'E THAT
ECONOMIC ACTTVITIFS PFBIN TO BF PFRFORMFI IN SIIRSTANTIYLLA
CHANIWF.  CONflTT IONS FOR 1D1IN13 8IJXINEFS. THF PRnOcFSS OF QUAIT.ATIVE
CHANGES AND OF INTRODUCJION OF THF RFAL IST)CAI.LY VALUED
FAI.'}VORS OF PROCTIA  L.N XS  E ILN6 St RE.NGTfHE..NED WHICH WILL
ENSURE THF PLANNFE  SPEFD IN THE RFALI7ATION OF 1HF STRUCTURAL
AD.JIJSTMENT (N THE ECON(JMY.
Text    5) YOUIR VIFW CONTPTNFD IN PARA 35 OF THF RF1P(JRI  THAT THE 'PRSPECTS
modifiedAT THE BE;TNNfNI OF t9?87 ARE FXTREMEL.Y D:(M' tS AL.SO '3ROIJNOItNYsES.
THF RFVISION OF THIS VIEW IS INrPISTPFNSABIE. ON THF BASIS CIF THF
TALKS HF'.0: WIrH THE WlJ HIGH O)FF(CIALS IN LATE 19S56 AND EARLY THIS
YEARt AS WELL AS OF THF PAPFRS SF NT TO THF BANK AF-TER THE
VISXtaI OF T1 S l" ':'EMBER '$6  l(SSXION  HE.ADED BY MR.W.WAPENHANSY
ON THE PROSPECTS FOR DFVFL OPMENT OF THE YUGOSI AV ECONOMY AND
THE SYSTEMICl RFFORM.S, A DIFFERENT A'SSESSMENT AND VIF.l SHOIJI. BE MADE



ATTACHMENT I
-82-                               Page 3 of 4
PART THREE
FHF REPORT WJIl  HAVE TO UNDERSCORE. THAr T'HF: SAL LENDING WAS TO
FootnoteSUPFORT A cSF'CIFX(C PROGRAM WHICH WAS' FOR THE FIRST TIPME APPLIED IN
added   OUR COUNTRY. WITH THIS SAL. OPERAT'ION AN IMPORTNAT FXPERIENCE WAS
GA INFEI,  O O1H IN Y01301l. AVIA AND IN THE WORID..I $ANKA e THE BANK NEITHER
HhRAD LARGE FXPFRIFNCF!.% TN THIS TYPF OF LFNIING6lS AS THEIR APPROVAL
STARTF'O ONLY IN FARI..Y EX6HfI'X:S. TH' FIRST EXPERtENCOS HAVE SHOWN,
INCLUDING THOSF OF OTHER COUJNTRIES, THAT ClONlIIJTJ1NAI ITY FOR W8
SAL. OPER-AT (OMS WAS  tJFlS8T.ANl'IAl AN)) INVOL.VED A wJtI)E RANGE OF
RADICAL STRUrTlIRAi  tINDFRTAKINGS IN PLIRSU)N( THE ECONOMIC POLICY
AN): ACHIF.V N6 1.FRRAIN l)ONli TERM liElIVPKS. REAI..IST(C POSSIBILITIES
OF THOSF CONTURIFS ANTD CONDITIONS WH]CH HAI TO ALLOW IMPLEMENTATION
OF THw: PRlOORAi1M SJil  FRVf.E.NTL.Y NOT'' I'AKFN .NTO ACCOIJNT WHICH
tMAINl Y RFSULTED TN A PARTIAL IMPI.FMENTATION OF THE TAR6FETFD
GOALS; !$:T  lORTH IN THF. SAL. l-ENEIING3 REI.ATEA) PROGRAMS.
THE NOTF CONTAINFD IN THF RPPORT THAT OF A TOTAI. LIF 26 'CONDITIONS'
ONL'Y SIX WERF FUIl.LY IMlPlJ-.IMF.N fEl:F  M(H'I LEAD 1'00 ERR(NF:)IJS CONCIU-
S IONS, BECAUSE FO I lOWINS THE SAL    I APPROVAI. YUiOSI AVTIA ACHIEVED
VERY REFMARKAoBlEF.: ANft TIPOR'tAN'r RESUJ.l.TS lN VIl'AL SECI'JRS OF fHE
ECONOMIC TIVFLOPFMNT AND FCONOMIC P-Ol IIC.Y  fHF EXAMPLFS ARF THE
ACHIEVEMFNTS IN THE INVESTMENT (N'r'F:RFST RA1s.F;, FORK::IN EXCHANGE
Footnote ALLOCATION, PRICE AND FINANCIAL. t1) iClPl1NF POLICIFSf  IN THF
added    FORE[l;N TRAD:IE Rt:(LiME, %'TC, ON )HV h'SULIl,'S ACHIEtVED IN THESE
FIFI rS THF WORL.DJ BANK WAS WLFtL JNFORMFTI THROU1GH ITS DECEMBFR
'86 NAl  APRlt. '8Y MISSION8hi THE SCOPF ANtI EXTENT OF THE ECONOMIC
REFORMS INTRODUCEr IN THl: COUNTRY IN 1983 HAVF NOT ONtY
D'EPFNT):IFf ON OUJR PROPER POSSIR tI.. 1'1 (S ANtI J:IETRMINATION
10 CARRY THEM OCUT, THFY HAVE PlBFN AlSO s FPFNJIANT ON THE GENF-
RAi. TRENi)18 ANI) TFNtIDENC tEX PREVAEl.IN6 IN INTERNA TIOJNAL ECONOMIC
RELATIONS (HIGH JNi:FRTErlNFSS OF DFVELOPINf CULINTRIl89 RFL.AIIVELY
HITH  INTIlREST RATES, INCREASEK) FROTE:TIO)NTSM IN THE WORL..D TRADE,
ETC#),  WHICH IS JNsllFIt:TFNTLY  HIGHt IGHTFII IN tHF RFPORI.
WE CANNOT SHARF: I(Hf. Vl:W l HAI THI-: ')tIIALO..3El  ON THE SAL OPERATIONS
WORSENDED IN THF COUlRSF OF ITS IMPL EMFNTAT)ON AND THAT IT
CriuI.I: NOT Y'  A:HARATFRE:)  AS 'CONSTRUC'lEVFE'* THE F(RST SENTENCE OF



- 83 -                        ATTACHMENT I
Page 4 of 4
PARA. 81 SHOULDBE THFRFFORF IFI FTF.D SINC:f OTHERWISE THF DIrYFL.O-
Footnote PMENTl  IN 1.1lUNNE.C'VIONWXTH '3AL.-I lUT I.IZATION 1411.J. SEFM lUNRE-
added    ALISTIC, TtlE SUCCESS OF THF  -Il-)I UITILIZATION IS EVI):FNTP
BOTH XN TERMS O)F ITS r ISRIJRSFIFN1' ANT) THE SPEEtI OF TTS
IMPlEMENTATION.
IN CONNECTION WITH THE COMMENT IN PARA 46 OF IHE RFPCIRT ON THE
IMPACT OF THE WEAKENI.NG OF T'HE 115 DOLLAR ON rHF  EXPORT
DEVFLOPMFNT FUND AND/OT THE B1PRREIWFR - L11hJ.UZFNA BFOSGRADSKA
BANKA - ON OUR Sf1):i  THE INCREASE0 COSTS OF THE LOAN ARE EMPHASIZED
AS A MATTER OF CONCFRN, WHICH CAN PF IllUSTRATFD BY THF
FIRXir REPAYMENT OF THE I.OANP DiOF ON JANUARY t:-i '87, WHEN
Footnote THF BORROWER HAD TO PAY OS POLL 3,03 MILLION ON ACCOUNT OF
added   PRINCEPAL ANID 11THER COST1Sl   ACCORDING lTI THE REPAYMENT
SCHEDULE OF THE LOAN AOI-'FMENT THE OHIIG;- f- ON ACCOUNT
OF THE PRINCIPAL. PAYMFENI WAS 1175 MXI.1.1(N. THE AMOIJUNT AUGMENTED
rY uS DOLL 5P2 MTIllJlN DlFE. TO; INTFR-CLIRRFNI:Y CHANCiFs AND/OH THE
WEAKENING D:'Ol.,LAR, THIS FUITHER MEANS THAT THREE DOt.l.I.ARS REPAY
ONE UTILIZED DOnLLAR. THIS IS OF AN INCREASIN61Y 6RhAT CtONCFRN
AS THIS PHENOMENON XS NOT1 JUIST CHARACTER ISTIC FOR SAL OPERATION*
IT ALSO HOLDS TRlUF FOR' ALL OTHER LOANS ENTl:RETI INTO AFTFR
1980, WHEN THE DECX'SION ON THE CURRENCY PIjO.INri SYSTEM  WAS TAKEN
SO AS TO TRANSMIT INTFR-CURRENCY RISKS TO At.l. 1OHRROWFRS.
THIS .S SOMETHINlG THAl' MAY FSSFNTIXA l.Y INFiLUEN1'E FIJTIJRE D1EMANDS
FOR WB LOANS. IN THIS CONTEXT SOME O l HFR MOlRE FAVOUIRABLE
SOLI r t)1NS WXI.1. HASE T'O )E .MMUDIAfEI.LY SEARCHH.ED FOR W4HICH
WOULD BE MORE  F4ARAli F FOR THF BOlRROWFRS TN (,CONC'RFTF CASFS#
THF1 OVISERVAIlONSX IN fARA 02, OF THE .RF.PORT, RELATE!) WITH THE POSSIB
I-
LI1 IES FOR APPROVAL. OF NFW SAL'S TO Y060(i1Sl AVIAP WILL HAVE TO
Footnote BE AMENDED IN THE I ''  t OF THE AO3RFEMENTS RF:ACH.H1tI WITH  4B EIECE-
added    MBER '86 AND APRIL '87 MISSIONS. ON THFSF (OCC:A1isIONS BOTH
THE MANAGEMEL:NT ANO THIE: STAFF 4FRF: 1 H)RO;JUGHI.Y INFORMED ON THE
DIRFCTIONS OF THE FCONOMIC SYSTFM RFFORMS lUPON WHICH THE BANK
NOTt-:tt THAT A FEW 1N:EiNOIN(i ISSUjES HAD STX1.I, RFMAINE:tI. IT WAS
ALSO NOTEDI THAT THF SOLUTION OF THFSF PENTIfNI ISSUES
WAS E XPF:Crro IN JIJLY lIHTS YEAR, XN THE VIfW OF RnTH SIDES
THE POSSIIL TTISF  WOUILD OPEN THFRFAFTFR FOR A MIICH WIDER
P:f<iJRAM O(  i'H  F F:NANCIAt. ASS1STEN   1-: T1. Y1113,)0l.AVXA , INCLIJEIING
IHE SAL TYPF l FNfPINGS. BFST RFGARiDS, B(ORIS SKsAPTN  ASSISTANT
FEDERAL SECRETARY FOR FINANCE4
248423 WORLIiBANK
116(? Sly YU
=06081237
NNNNN



- 84 -                   ATTACHMKNT II
Page 1 o; 2
COX4NTS RECEIVED FROM UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA
JUS0288 JGM62S IN 08/04t36 OUT 08/04t47
11712 BOBANK 'Yl  lO.8H
B,¢OGRAD  05 OS 87 NR 19601/DZS
THE WORLD BANK .WASH I NOTON , USA
ATTENTION$MR AI.FXANDFR HOWICKIPF)VISION CHIEF
OPERATIONS EVAL.UAIXON DEPARTMENT
RE?CONMENTS ON THF PROGkAM OF THF PERFORNANUF AIIDIT I0PURI MADE
BY THE WORLD BANK(COMPL.ETION REPORT Rt.I.AfEO 10 S'AL l.OAN
(2326-YU LOAN)
HAVING CONSIDERFD THE PROGRAM OF THE PERFORMAN:E AUDIT REPORt OF
THE WORL.D BANKPPRECISEL.Y THE ';ECTION RELATED TO THE OPERATIONS OF
THE EXPORT DFFVLOPMFNT FUND#WE DFFM IT NCFCSSARY TO MAKF THE
FOLLOWING COMMENTS,
IdTEM 43( PAGE 22)S
New para- THF INSUFFICIFNT DFMAND FOR THF SAL PROCErDS CHARACTERIZED THE
graph    FIRST HALF OF iSsi BUtj sirN(HE THE END OF 1986 IT HAS BEEN ON A STEADY
added.    INCREASFSINCE THF BFGINNING OF 1987 UESOLL.ARS 30 MPON THE
AVEtAl}E' HAVE BEEN ORANTEOtPER MOHTH,lO SUB-BORROWERS AND SLCH
TENDENCY HAS BEEN CONTINUED.
2.*ITE  44( PAGE 23):
INTEREST RATF APPLICABLE TO FINIPS O}GkANTFD TO SUB-BORROWFRS IS HIGHs
DUE.FOR THE MOST PAR1TTO THE 2-(/o S.PRFAD NECESSARY ro COVER OPERA-
TION RISK AND lOSSES INCURRFP BY EDF.
Information3. ITEM 45( PAOE 23) I
added to  FOREIGN EXCHANF MARKFT HAS NOT BEEN A(:TIVF TO THF EXTfNT WHICH HAS
text.     BEEN EXPECTFDftI; THAr TRAT'[TIONAL IEXPO)RTIRS HAVE NOT SEFN. SlJFFICIENT
-LY SFcUREr ON THAT BASIS ANrM ARF  ORIFNTFD TOWARDS THE USF 01 THE
SAl. PROCEEDS#
4.JTE.M 46( PAGF 23)S
IT HAS BFEN PROPERLY NOTICED THAT THE MOST SFRIOU)S PROBLEM THAT
InformationEDF HAS BEEN CONFRONTErD WIrH CONCERNS COST INCREASEPDUE TO THE US
added to  DOLLAR DEVALUATION,
text.     IN THE KEANTIME,THE FIRST INSTAlMFNT OF PRJNCIF'AL TOTALLING US
DOLLARS 16,1 E E E 16Y7179t79S18 WAS PAIDtOlF WHICH USDOLLARS
5t257t179.18 ACCOUNT FOR EXCHANGE RAIF DIFFFRFNTIAL. MAIlF ON THE
GROUNDS OF CURRENCY PUOLINO SYSfEM.ON THE BAlStS OF THE AFORESAIDPIT
APPFARS THAT THE FIRST INSTALMENT WAS PAID IN THE AMOUNT OF 46-0/0
OVER THE AMOU(NT ENVIXBAEUD BY THE REPAYMENT SCHEDULI.E WHICH IS OEYOND THE
THE. PROJECTED FIUllRFS IN THE SAID R1 PORT.



ATTACHMENT II
Page 2 of 2
-85-
5.ITEN 58( PAOE 20)S
WE THINK IT WAS RRRKRKXX3IiRMXKlXX PRWPFRLY Or SFRVED THAT THF MAIN
PROBlEMS ARE BEYOND tHE EDF CONTROLtSO *IHA' THE WORLD BANK SHOULD,
THE SOONEST POSSIBLE FIND THE WAY TO ASSIST UBI' AND YUGOSLAVIA
AS A WHOLE.
IT SHOULD DE UNDERLINED THAT,ACCOR)JINE  TO THE PREVAILING
iLLOCATION SCHEME OF THE SAL PROC.EDSPTTHE RISK HAS NOT BFEN
TRANSFERRED TO 8UB-9ORROWERS,BUT HAS TJ PF BORNE  BY UBP.
6.ITEN 8?( PAI3E 41):
HOWEVER,THF FUTURE OF EDF IS NOT UNtFRTAINPAS JT WAS MENTIONED
IN THE REPORTiBECAIUlF THE ('IJRRFNT SITUtATIION SHOWS THAT TRADITIONAL
SUB-BORROWERS OF THE SAL PROCEEDS HAVF BEFN CONSISrFNTL.Y
APPROACHINO FOE AND APPLYINB FOR SUB-LOAN APPROVAL AND NEW
SURRORROWERS HAVE ALSO SHOWN UP.
IF THE WORLD BANK FINDS THF S%MIJNXURXXNKX SOLUTION OF THE
CURRENCY RIXk PROBLEM* MADE ON rHE OROUINDS OF CU1RRENCY
Footnote  POOLINO SYSTEMsIT IS QUITE CFRTAIN THAT THE  DFD  FOTURI blOU1LD BEF SAFE,
oooed   HAVI(t  IN MIND ALSO THAT,IN SlUH A MANNl:R rHE PROBLEM OF UNCOMPETITI-
added.   tVENFSS OF ITS PLACEMENTS TO  SUB-BORROWERS WOlUI.D BE AlSO SOLVED.
OUR OPINION IS tHAt INE MAIN CI)NCL.UXION OF THE REPORT SHOULD COVER
THE OVERCOMING OF THE ADVERSE IMPACT OF CURRFNCY POOLING SYSlEM
FUNCTIONING ON THE EDF OPERATIONS*
BEST REGARDS DR.M#.ANICrGFNERAt MANAGFR
B.VUCICPEXECUTIVF VP
UDRUZENA BEOBRADSKABANKA
ROPI ?-9( 67
-05081005
NNNN



