Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LA. 2Z3Z6-YC)
Report No- P-3606-YU
REPORT AND RECOMIMENDAIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNAIIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DiEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USS275 MILLION
TO THE
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
June 2, 1983
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit - Dinar (Din)
Currency Unit 1/          Calendar 1982 2/    April 22, 1983
US$1                     Dinar 51.32        Dinar 79.66
Dinar 1                  US$0.019           US¢0.014
Dinar 1,000,000          US$19,485.58       US$13,650.01
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
APR             Annual Plan Resolt-cion
LUAL            Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CGE             Computable General Equilibrium
CIFER           Community of Interest for Foreign Economic
Relations
LUl             Community of Interest
EDF             Export bevelopment Fund
GI%kS           Goods and Nonfactor Services
LDR             Less Developed Regions
LPG             Liquified Petroleum Gas
hbk             More Developed Regions
Nbb             National Bank of Yugoslavia
hKO.            Railway Iransport Organization
SAL             Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP             Socialist Autonomous Province
SIJK            Social Accounting Service
UBB             bdruzena Beogradska Banka
IbA             Yugoslav banks' Association
YLlLC           Yugoslav Bank for International Economic
Cooperation
toe             tons of oil equivalent
1/ The dinar has not been maintained within announced margins since July 12,
1973. lts parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance of
external competitiveness.
2i Period Average.



FOR OMCIAL UTSE ONLY
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Structural Adjustment Loan
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan Summary        . ............ ........ .... ... .... . . .4........ .i
Part I - The EcoM....          ... ...................    1
A. Institutional Setting .........1
B. Economic Trends and Development Issues. .                                    2
C.  Recent Economic Developments  .. ........                     .. ....    3
Part II - The Structural Adjustment Program............    6
A. Introductio                             ... ..6
B.  Investment Planning and Resource Allocation ...                             8
lntroductiou                8.............. .                              8
Ongoing Investmentsvt. .mn......            .       .. .  ..               9
bew Investments .................            .. . ... ....... ...   10
Interest Rate Policy .................   .........................    12
Financial Planning ............. ................................   13
C.  Foreign Exchange Allocation and External Trade Policies .........         14
Foreign Exchange Allocation . .................    14
External Debt Monitoring ........................................    15
Export Promotion ................                ................   16
Trade Incentives      .      ..... ................................    17
D.  Price Policies and Enterprise Decision-making               .     .        18
The Regulatory Framework ....   ................................   18
Sectoral ?ricing Issues                        ..                         19
Enterprise Decision-making ........................   22
Sectoral Issues .................................................   23
Energy                            ......   23
Agriculture ...................................................  25
E.  Expected Effects of the Structural Adjustment Program           . .    26
Part Ill - The Structural Adjustment loan                 ...        .         35
A.  Loan History ................... ....                  ................    35
B.  IMF Activities in Yugoslavia and Relationship to the
Proposed Loan ........... ..............   36
C.  Benefits and Risks ...      . ...............                  ......   39
D.  Loan Amount .... ...............                         ...   . .        40
E.  The Borrower         .     ..      ..........                .    ......   40
F. 14onitoring ...................................   41
G.  Export Development Fund, Loan Administration . . ..............            .....  42
X. Categories of Goods to be Financed                    .        .           43
1.  Counterpart Funds         .     .     ................... .43
J.  Procurement and Disbursement ................ . .   44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contcnts may not otherwise be disclosed without Woild Bank authorization.



Iable of Contents
(continued)
Page No.
Part IV - Other Bank Group Operations in
Yugoslavia and Relationship to Proposed Loan ......................   44
Part V - Legal Instruments and Authority                 .        .          46
Part VI - Recommendations .............. .............. .............   46



Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Structural Adjustment Loan
Loan Summary
Borrower:                     Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB)
Guarantor:                    Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:                       $275 million including capitalized front end
fee.
Beneficiaries;                All industrial enterprises of Yugoslavia
("work organizations of associated labor"),
including agro-indusrries, that can just-fy
their ability to export to convertible
currency areas based on evidence of export
orders or contracts and have import
requirements in convertible currency for
production.
Terms:                        15 years, including three years' grace, at the
standard variable interest rates.
On-lending Terms:             UBB would on-lend the loan proceeds through an
Export Development Fund (EDF) to be
established within UBB. Sub-loan maturities
will normally reflect the productior. cycle and
the period for receiving actual export
revenues. They will not exceed 6 months for
exports of consumer goods and intermediate
products, 12 months for exports of capital
goods, and 18 months for exports rcfinanced by
the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic
Cooperation (YBIEC).
Sub-loans will carry interest at the 6 months
dollar LIBOR in effect on the day of the
sub-loan commitment plus a spread of 2% for
the EDF, both to be paid in US dollars, plus a
spread of 1% for the intermediaries (to be
allocated between UBB, the authorized bank of
the sub-borrower and YBIEC, as the case may
be) and an annual guarantee commission of
about 0.42 of the sub-lean amount, both to be
paid in Dinars. In case the sub-loan interest
rate would be lower than the applicable Bank
rate on the day of sub-loan commitment, the
spread to the EDF shall be increased to
equalize the sub-loan interest rate with the
applicable Bank rate.



- ii -
Loan Description;             The proposed loan is designed to support the
implementation of the Government's comprehen-
sive struictural adjustment program which has
been outlined in a Letter of Development
Policy submitted to the Bank. The principal
aim of the program is to place the country's
balance of paymeat3 with the convertible
currency area on a sounder rooting, and to
improve the efficiency of investment selection
and resource allocation in the economy. To
achieve these objectives, specific actions are
to be taken in the areas of investment
planning and resource allocation, interest
rate policy, foreign exchange allocation,
export promotion, export incentives, the
regulatory framework for price control, price
adjustments in the energy and transportation
sectors, and the financial accountability of
enterprises. The foreign exchange provided by
the loan would be used to finance through
sub-loans to eligible exporters by the EDF
essential imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods, spare parts and imported
components for turn-key industrial projects,
civil works, ships and capital goods exports.
The main risks arise from uncertainties in the
external environment which could affect export
prospects and borrowing costs.
Estimated Disbursements:      The loan will be disbursed in two tranches of
*175 million and $100 million respectively:
the first tranche is expected to be disbursed
by end 1983. The second tranche would begin
disbursing subiect to the Bank being
satisfied, after an exchange of views with the
government to take place about October 1983,
with the progress made in the execution of the
Government's adjustment program. The entire
loan is expected to be disbursed by June 30,
1984.
btaff Appraisal Report:       None.
Economic Rate of Return;      Not applicable.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORI A!ND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
10 THE EXECUTIVE DIRLC1ORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BA.NKA (UBB)
WIlh ThE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALISI FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) for the equivalent of US$275
million, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, to help support the Government's structural adjustment
program. The loan would have ' term of 15 years, including three years of
grace, with interest at the standard variable interest -ate.
PART I - TIH. ECONOMY
2.       An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report
Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on November 2, 1982. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
A. Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85X of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of small
tarms and enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction. trade,
transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by the
principle ot workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the
Constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has increasingly shifted from the federal level to the republics,
autonomous provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers'
collectives over the socially-owned means of production has been increased
by a restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous
Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest
production units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements which are widely used in micro
economic decisions have also gradually become a part of the system of
macroeconomic management. These instruments enable the participation of
all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy while
maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation.
Beginning with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments have
been used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal policy
measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.



-2-
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to eetab'ish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major medium-term goals for the economy.  Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including
government bodies, on a non-hierarchical basis. An exhaustive interchange
of intormation is required to achieve consistency among the plans of
economic units concurrent with broader social objectives. Once consistency
is achieved, economic units enter into legally binding medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at the relevant
level are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
B. Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 302 in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US$2,790 at 1981
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy, with the share of industry in GDP now around
42X and that of agriculture about 12%. The past three decades bave also
witnessea the growing integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy.
Between 1960 ani 1981 merchandise exports and imports grew by around 6X and
8% per annum in real terms, respectively. However, Yugoslavia's export
performance to the industrial market economies has showed increasing
weakness over the past decade, particularly since 1973.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita output, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference in
per capita output between the most developed region in the country,
Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these
interregional disparities there are large intraregional disparities with
differences in per capita output between communes as high as 10 to 1.
These disparities reflect several factors, notably the greater incidence of
low productivity agriculture in the LDR, their higher dependency ratios and
their higher population growth rates, which averaged 1.22 annually during
1971-81. Since 1965 sizeable concessionary investment credits (with about
a 50% grant element), have been transferred to the LDR through the Federal
Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less Developed Regions,
1/ According to 'World Bank Atlas methodology.



-3-
financed through a tax on all social sector enterprises in the economy. In
addition, the Federal budget provides supplementary resources for social
sector expenditures in the LDR. Together, these resources account for
about 10% of the social product of the LDR.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional disparities has been the problem
of providing adequate e-ployment opportunities in the modern sector.  Since
1954, employment in the modern social sector has increased by around 4X per
annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural sector. Despite
this impressive record, substantial productivity and income differentials
remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(predominantly private) agricultural sectors. The persistence of these
aitferentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
there were about 1.1 million external migrants. However, since 1973, this
trend has been reversed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure
on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates have
risen rapidly from about 72 in 1971 to over 122 in 1982. 1/ The incidence
of unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged
trom 29% in Kosovo to 2% in Slovenia.
C. Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive record of economic and social development
since World War II, Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult
economic situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic
liberalization in 1965. The domestic and international repercussions of
the events which followed the 1979 oil price shock are still being felt by
the Yugoslav economy. In many respects the difficulties facing Yugoslavia
are similar to those facing most middle income developing countries:
higher oil prices and interest rates, sluggish world trade and more
difficult access t. international commercial bank credit. However, the
severity of Yugoslavia's economic problems also reflects structural
deficiencies in the pattern of Yugoslav development which became
increasingly apparent in the seventies and which are discussed in Part II
ot this report. These conditions prompted the Government to introduce a
series of stabilization measures beginning in 1980. The main elements of
the stabilization program introduced thus far have been restrictive
monetary and fiscal policies to curb investment and reduce inflationary
pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate policies to encourage
exports. At the same time, imports have been scaled back in line with the
revenues accruing from export earnings and more limited foreign borrowing.
1/ These rates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about
9% in 1982.



-4-
Yugoslavia's stabilization efforts have been supported by substantial IMF
assistance, and the country is currently in the third year of a three-year
standby arrangement with the IMF in an aggregate amount of SDR 1,662
million, in effect since January 1981. IMF activities in Yugoslavia are
aiscussed in greater detail in Part III of this report.
10.      As a result of its stabilization program, 'iugoslavia succeeded in
reducing its current account deficit from $3.7 billion in 1979 to $2.3
billion in 1980 and to $0.9 billion in 1981. Underlying this improvement
was a strong surge in merchandise exports which increased in volume by 11%
in 1980 and 11.72 in 1981. At the same time, merchandise import volumes
were reduce1 by 10.5Z in 1980 and 4.92 in 1981. However, in 1982 export
volume declined by 6.2%. This was attributable to continued recession in
Yugoslavia's major trading partners, some erosion of competitiveness, and
to some extent to shortages of imported inputs. Performance of invisibles
in 1982 was also below expectations. The Yugoslav authorities responded by
devaluing the dinar (by 492 against the dollar during 1982) and by further
cuts in imports (the volume of merchandise imports in 1982 declined by
10%). As e result of these efforts the current account deficit was further
reduced, to an estimated $0.5 billion. One notable effect of the cutback
in imports has been the shortage of oil product". In October 1982, the
government introduced rationing of gasoline for domestic passenger vehicles
with purchases restricted to 40 liters per month. 'While every effort is
being made to isolate important domestic producers (and exporters in
particular) from the effects of the import restrictions, the import squeeze
is continuing to cause difficulties for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDiP grew by 4.2%. In both 1980 and 1981 GDP growth is estimated at 2.2%.
The latest available estimates indicate that GDP declined by 1% in 1982.
This reduction in growth is partly a result of the stabilization measures,
but is also due to shortages of imported mnputs. Miining and manufacturing
output has been particularly affected. In 1979 it increased by over 8.22,
but over the two years 1980 and 1981 it rose by only 4.12, and declined by
an estimated 0.32 in 1982. There have been marked fluctuations in
agricultural output mainly due to climatic fattors. After stagnating in
1980 and 1981, agricultural output increased by 52 in 1982.
12.      Fixed investment has fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at an average rate of 9.5% between 1975
and 1979, it declined by 6.02 per year in 1979-82. Despite these slowdowns
in investment and economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably
successful in maintaining a fast pace of job creation in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.2% in 1980, 2.9% in 1981
and 2.32 in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has been fastest
in the LDR where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
13.      One of the major aims of the stabilization program has been to
secure a significant reduction in the rate of inflation, which increased



-5-
from 13% in 1978 to 22% in 1979. Despite significant declines in
investment and real domestic demand, inflationary pressures have continued
to pose substantial probleus for the economy.  In 1980 and 1981 inflation
accelerated to 30% and 38% respectively. In an effort to bring inflation
under control, the authorities introduced temporary price ceilings on a
wide range of goods on July 31, 1982. This policy has met with only
limited success, however, and inflation during 1982 was 322. The
persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. The
efforts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural
production and rationalize energy use have all served to put upward
pressure on the price level. The increase in international prices since
1979 and the cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of the
dinar have resulted in a considerable increase in domestic production
costs. Nominal personal income growth has also proved difficult to
control. The Government's intention is to reduce the rate of inflation to
20% during 1983. Given the likely inflationary effects of the depreciation
of the dinar and mounting pressure from workers to reverse the decline in
real wages (which have fallen by 17Z in real terms since 1979), any
reduction in the inflation rate below the 1982 level should be considered a
significant achievement.
14.      Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been complicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in
international interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from
$0.8 billion in 1979 to $2.0 billion in 1982. Principal repayments on
medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $1.9 billion in 1982. While
there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts,
the commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious position toward
increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to adverse
developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity problems
experienced by some Yugoslav banks. During 1982, medium- and long-term
credits to Yugoslavia declined to approximately $2.0 billion, compared with
$4.2 billion during 1980. Short-term capital outflows put further pressure
on the balance of payments. While Yugoslavia was able to increase its
short-term borrowing by about $1 billion during the 1979-81 period, it was
unable to roll all of this debt over during 1982 and outstanding short-term
debt declined by approximately $500 million over the course of the year.
15.      The above developments caused mounting external liquidity
difficulties for the economy in the second half of 1982, so that at the
beginning of 1983 foreign exchange reserves (including foreign assets of
the commercial banks) stood at $1.7 billion, a month's imports from the
convertible area. To help ease Yugoslavia's foreign exchange liquidity
difficulties, at the invitation of the IMF se-eral meetings have taken
place in the first half of the year with Yugoslavia's major creditor
banks. Simultaneously, a group of 15 OECD countries has met on several
occasions to assemble an aid package of commodity, export and financial
credits to be made available to Yugoslavia during 1983 and 1984.



Agreements have now been reached in principle on a package of foreign
assistance which has the following major elements:
- $2.0 billion gross from approximately 500 foreign banks, of
which $0.6 billion will represent an increase in net exposure,
and the remainder will equal amortization payments coming due
in 1983.
- $2.0 billion in revolving short term credits extended for two
more years to the National Bank of Yugoslavia; and
- $1.35 billion in government supported
commodity/export/financial c-edits.
The Yugoslav authorities also consider lending from the European Investment
Bank and the World Bank to form part of the package. Including proceeds
from the proposed structural adjustment loan and the third year of the IMF
standby, total foreign assistance being provided to Yugoslavia during 1983
would amount to about $6.5 billion. Representatives of the OECD countries
concerned and the commercial banks have indicated that they regard Bank
support to Yugoslavia in the form of the proposed structural adjustment
loan (SAL) as an important complement to this package.
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
16.      The Federal Five-Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but its assumptions were soon invalidated by developments in the domestic
and international economy, including the sharp acceleration in domestic
inflation and the reluctance of commercial banks to increase their exposure
in Yugoslavia. While intermittent attempts were made to revise the plan in
1982, the balance of payments situation remained too volatile for such an
exercise to be completed productively, and the energies of policymakers
were largely devoted to issues of short-term management. Despite this
hiatus in the medium-term plan, considerable discussion continued to occur
on the country's medium-term economic strategy and the reform of
instruments, institutions and legislation that would be needed to bring
about sustained and efficient growth. A high-level body of Yugoslav
policymakers and academics known as the "Commission on Economic
Stabilization" (henceforth the "Stabilization Commission") was formed in
the second half of 1981 to prepare a comprehensive blueprint for reform in
a wide variety of subject areas. 1/ The Commission issued a series of
working papers over the course of 1982 and is expected to issue its final
report by the middle of 1983. The Commission's proposals strongly support
1/ The term "stabilization" is used rather broadly in Yugoslavia to denote
an overall policy of balanced development, rather than just the
acbievement of internal and external macroeconomic balance.



-7-
a return to a more open economy, an export-led growth strategy and a
greater role for the market in the allocation of resources within the
economy. These proposals are generally in line with positions advocated by
the Bank in its economic and sector wcrk in recent years. With the work of
the Commission nearing conclusion, and with somewhat greater stability in
the supply of foreign capital being previded through the multipartite
financial package describe.d earlier, the exercise of revistng the
medium-tenm plan has been resumed, with the intention of having the revised
plan approved by the end of 1983.
17.      The revised plan is intended to incorporate the proposals and
recommendations of the Stabilization Commission. As such, even though the
process of plan revision is still underway, the main directions of the
revision are already clear. The goal of economic policy in the next two to
three years is to put the balance of payments on a secure footing. This is
to be done through continued reductions in domestic demand (particularly
fixed investment, but also consumption) coupled with measures to switch
resources into the export sector. In the transition to export-led growth,
output growth rates are expected to remain low, and the availability of
investment resources to be limited. Preliminary projections of the Federal
Institute for Social Planning forecast social product growth of around 22
per year for the 1983-85 period.  lerscnal consumption is projected to
increase by about 12 per year, and fixed investment by 42 per year. Within
the reduced investment program the priorities stressed are export
promotion, the development of domestic energy resources and other selected
raw materials, and primary production in agriculture. Investment in social
services is to be cut back sharply, with 1=rticularly deep cuts being
inflicted on non-housing investment. Given the growth and investment
outlook, more emphasis is being laid on the development of labor intensive
activities and small-scale enterprises, and the increased use of shift
work. wvhile the main challenges for economic policy in the next two or
three years are in external adjustment, the reduction of regional
disparities remains a major objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning.
Financial transfers between regions will play an important role in this
process, with particular stress on encouraging social sector enterprises in
the more developed regions (?iDR) to undertake joint ventures with
enterprises in the LDR.
18.      The program of reform being articulated by the Stabilization
Commission is comprehensive and covers a wide range of economic and social
activities. In defining the elements of a structural adjustment program
more closely, for the purposes of designing an effective SAL, the Bank and
the Government have concentrated on those areas of action which are most
critical to Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts at the present time. In the
l_ght of the acute foreign exchange shortage being experienced by
Yugoslavia and the likely availability of external finance over the
medium-term, the most urgent priority is the expansion of exports to the
convertible currency area. Successful performance in this area is likely
to evoke a more positive reaction from private capital markets, while



- 8 -
greater foreign exchange availability wil; facilitate import liberalization
and permit restructuring of the economy according to its international
comparative advantage. A better expor, performance will require immediate
measures to improve the availability of imported inputs to exporters, the
incentive framework facing thcm and ::ome aspects of the institutional
structure supporting them. Concurrently, it will be necessary to address
the deteriorating efficiency of the Yugoslav economy as reflected in
stagnating total factor productivity over most of the 1970s. This requires
sustained attention to the investment program in aggregate and in major
sectors, and to the incentive and institutional framework governing
investments. It also requires action on removing price distortions in
certain key areas, while moving to increase the financial accountability of
enterprises and their responsiveness to market signals.
19.      Accordingly, the main areas that have been selected for action in
the structural adjustment program are:
- investment planning and resource allocation;
- foreign exchange allocation and external trade policies;
- price policies and enterprise decision-making.
These areas for action at the economy-wide level vill have an impact on
resource allocation in all sectors of the economy, but will particularly
effect the industrial sector, whose role in the adjustment effort is
paramount, especially in the short-term. These measures at the
ecomomy-wide level will, however, be supplemented by a limited number of
sector-specific measures in the important sectors of agriculture and energy.
20.      It is recognized by both the Bank and the Yugoslav Government that
restructuring the economy is a process that, while already underway, will
take time and that action will need to be undertaken in a phased fashion.
In several areas (for example exchange rate and interest rate policy)
action has already begun to be taken, or can be taken quickly; in others
the need is to define a detailed implementation program; in yet others
while the general nature of the problems is known, the detailed basis for
policy reform needs still to be established through studies. The
adjustment program described below (and summarized later in Table 1)
accordingly combines steps already taken and to be taken with measures
designed to lay the basis for action in the future.
B. Investment Planning and Resource Allocation
lItroduction
21.      Several weaknesses in the area of investment policy were evident
through the 1970s, and were responsible for poor economic performance at
both the macro and micro levels.  The system of self-management planning



- 9 -
practiced in Yugoslavia in the 1970s placed primary responsibility for the
aggregate balance between demand and supply of investment funds, and their
allocation between users, on a system of multilateral negotiations between
planners, banks, enterprises and political bodies. At the same time the
use of realistic capital pricing through appropriate interest rate policies
was neglected as a mechanism for allocating capital, on the grounds that
this role for interest rates was redundant in a planned environment.
22.      In practice, however, the self-management and planning machinery
intended to perform the rationing function proved to be inadequate for the
task. Enterprises and commnues were able to gain approval for too many
projects, including sevaral which were not well-conceived nor fully
financed. As a consequence the size of the investment program launched
between 1977 and 1979 overwhelmed the administrative and financial capacity
of the country: investment resources were spread too thinly over too many
projects, and the capacity of tne local construction and equipment supply
sectors was overstretched. Ihis process led to delays in completion and
escalating cost overruns, and was exacerbated by shortages of foreign
exchange and domestic funds toward the end of the last plan. At the same
time some projects were launched which were not warranted by the needs of
the national market nor internationally competitive.
Ongoing Investments
23.      Ihe view that the overall share of investment in domestic
absorption was unsustainably high is fully consistent with those of the the
Stabiliz.ation Commission and the Yugoslav Government. As mentioned already
(para. 12) the stabilization effort has already been marked by sharp cuts
in in-estment, and further reductions are proposed for 1983. Despite these
cuts rationalization of the investment program in the main productive
sectors is still underway and is to be completed when the revisions of the
plan are finalized later this year. While the responsibility for making
decisions on sectoral priorities lies with disparate bodies within
Yugoslavia, the Federal Government has designed a series of instruments to
facilitate a dialogue between the Bank and relevant bodies in Yugoslavia as
the decisions on the investment program as a whole and in key sectors are
made over the course of this year. This dialogue will permit the Bank to
form a judgement on the restructuring effort being proposed, and will allow
the Bank to make a technical contribution to this effort.
24.      First, by the end of September 1983 the Yugoslav authorities have
agreed to provide the Bank with the draft revisions of the medium-term
plan, including the technical documents which underlie it. These documents
will be discussed between the Bank and the Government and would be expected
to be submitted to Parliament before the end of the year. The adequacy of
progress in finalizing the revision of the 1981-85 five year development
plan, including a definition of sectoral and sub-sectoral priorities would
be a condition for releasing the second tranche of the SAL (Section (e)(ii)
of the Schedule to the draft Guarantee Agreement). Second, understandings



- 10 -
have been reached on a system for mcuitoring the progress of various
aspects of the investAent program of importance to the Government and the
Bank. Beginning in August 1983 and at least semi-annually thereafter, the
Government will provide reports on the progress of the investment program
to the Bank. The adequacy of progress in monitoring investment
expenditures incurred during the previous six-month period would be a
condition for releasing the second tranche of the SAL (Section (b) of the
Schedule to the draft Guarantee Agreement). To comply with this condition
the Government would submit a first semi-annual progress report to the
Bank. This as well as future reports will show: (i) the sectoral
allocation of investment expenditures in relation to agreed plan targets;
(ii) progress of expenditures on all ongoing large projects (those with a
total investment cost of 750 million dinars - these account for about 50%
of the current investment program); and (iii) information on new projects,
including after April 1984, estimated economic rates of return calculations
for all projects over 750 million dinars in the economic sectors. 1/ These
reports will permit an assessment of the progress of the investment
program, and in particular, the effectiveness of the instruments being
deployed by the Government in ensuring quick completion of large and high
priority investments. While in general Yugoslav constitutional
arrangements do not empower the Government to differentiate between
priority and non-priority investment projects 21 within sectors, the
institutional organization of the .-tergy sector does permit this
distinction to be drawn. The Government therefore will provide to the Bank
a list of ongoing investments which are considered to constitute the core
program in the energy sector. The definition of the program of priority
investment projects in the energy sector for the period 1983-1985, required
to -chieve planned targets, would be a condition for releasing the second
tranche of the SAL (Section (a) of the Schedule to the draft ';uarantee
Agreement). The progress of these projects will be monitored particularly
intensively.
New Investments
25.      In addition to rationalizing ongoing investments, the Yugoslav
adjustment program includes a set of measures designed to improve the
quality of decisions made on new investments in the economy in a fashion
1/ Yugoslav economic and social activity is classified into so-called
'economic', and, 'non-economic' sectors, the latter consisting of
social sectors such as health, education, culture, and government
administration.
2/  Under the Yugoslav planning system, the republics and provinces agree
at the beginning of each five-year plan on a set of economic sectors
whose accelerated development is in the national interest. These
sectors are called the priority sectors and special efforts are made to
direct finance to them. In the 1976-80 plan such priority sectors
received roughly 60% of total investment resources going to the
economic sectors, or about 36% of total fixed investment.



- 11 -
consistent with decentralized decision-making. This is being achieved both
by strengthening the institutional framework for initiatijag and appraising
investment projects, and by moves toward a more realistic pricing of
capital. These measures, when taken together with the measures discussed
later to increase the accountability of enterprises for their decisions,
should result in better investment decisions being taken than in the past.
The impact of these steps on the efficiency of the economy would
necessarily be gradual, but the cumulative impact over time is expected to
be significant.
26.      Several measures have already been taken to improve the
institutional and legal framework for investment decisions. Legislation
was passed in 1982 which requires investors to demonstrate assured sources
of financing before initiating investment, as well as regulating, for
different sectors, the minimum contribution that must come from the
enterprise's own resources. Other legislation passed in 1982, and
effective in February 1983, requires obligatory registration of all
investment projects above 100 million dinars with the Chambers of Economy.
'Work is nearing completion on a Social Compact on the Criteria for, and
Evaluation of, the Socio-economic justification of Proposed Investments
which will establish, at the federal level, a number of minimum criteria to
be met by projects throughout the country, and mechanisms for the
institutional implementation of these criteria. These criteria will
include, for the first time, an economic rate of return (following World
Bank methodology) for all investment projects in the economic sectors
covered by the Social Compact. The definition of the economic rate of
return would be agreed with the Bank prior to finalization of the Social
Compact. The conclusion of the Social Compact would be a condition for
releasing the second tranche of the SAL (Section (e)(i) of the Schedule to
the draft Guarantee Agreement). The Social Compact will also provide for
the establishmenc of an interagency review panel in each republic and
province, which will assess the justification of each investment in the
light of ti-ese criteria. This assessrsent would then be available to all
participants in the investment decision process including the Workers'
Council of the BOAL, other affected BOALs, planning bodies and banks, as an
element in their decisions. Effective implementation of these criteria
will require siguificant training or strengthening of the staff in the
Chambers of Economy and the comercial banks. A phased program for
implementing these procedures and upgrading staff is to be developed so
that by December 1984 Federal and regional Chambers of Economy Lnd
commercial banks will have sufficient trained staff in place to implement
tully these investment review procedures.
27.      In addition to these indirect measures, the Covernment has invited
the Bank to participate with the appropriate bodies in Yugoslavia in joint
studies of investment strategy in selected industrial subsectors. The
choice of modalities, studies and subsectors will be discussed with the
Bank in September 1983. The Bank would consider supporting such studies
with its financial assistance; the studies could provide a basis for future
Bank lending to the respective industrial subsectors.



- 12 -
Interest Rate Policy
28.      The issue of negative real interest rates has figured prominently
in the economic dialogue between Yugoslavia and the Bank for many years.
Yugoslavia's position traditionally was that interest rates should not be a
determining factor in investment planning, since this would preempt the
dominant role of social planning and group consensus in determining
investment allocation. The view that interest rates must play an economic
rcle, even in the system of social planning, has gained increasing
acceptance in Yugoslavia and has made its way into the 1981-85 Federal
Plan, the resolutions of the National Assembly and the recommendations of
the Stabilization Commission. In consultation with the IMF, the YBA and
the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY) have conducted a series of reviews of
the interest rate structure over the past year, and significant increases
in the structure of deposit rates and rediscount rates were implemented in
March and October 1982 and again in February 1983. Following these
changes, commercial banks raised their lending rates accordingly. The
medium--term objective is to introduce a structure of positive real interest
rates 'vy making gradual adjustments in nominal rates while, concurrently,
reducing inflation. To achieve this objective the government has decided,
for the first time, to establish floor lending rates for all new credits
financed from the resources of the commercial banks. This rate would take
effect on January 1, 1984. The current intention is to establish this rate
at not less than 18%; however, should inflation (as measured by the rise in
the producer price index) exceed 18% in 1983, the floor rate would be
raised by one-third of the difference between 18% and the twelve-monthly
rate ot inflation in 1983. The level of the floor rate would be raised
annually in subsequent years with the aim of reaching positive real
interest rates defined in relation to the higher of either the increase in
the producer price index or the retail price index within two years from
the introduction of floor interest rates for lending to non-economic
sectors and within three years for lending to economic sectors.
29.      With a view to maintaining a certain degree of additional support
tor activities which are particularly important in the adjustment process,
the following exceptions to the above policy will be made:
(a)  all export credits;
(b)  all short-term credits for agriculture approved within the
framework of the selective credit policy of the NBY;
(c)  investment credits for primary agricultural production
(cereals, milk, meat, industrial crops and conditions for
significantly increasing their production, that is large
irrigation and drainage works, land consolidation and bringing
new land under cultivation);



- 13 -
(d) investment credits for other priority activities which will be
defined and identified in the Amendments to the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia for the 1981-1985 period; and
(e) resources paid into the special funds for accelerated
development of less developed regions at the level of the
Federation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces, as well as
resources associated in the form of joint ventures in
accordance with the existing system of stimulating the
development of these regions.
In the case of the exemptions provided for under (c) and (d), the aim is to
reach positive real interest rates in relation to the higher of either the
increase in the producer price or the retail price index within five
years. In view of the non-intermediated nature of the investment funds
provided to the LDR by the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of
the LDR (see para. 7), and given the intention to move increasingly to
inter-enterprise joint ventures as the mechanism for interregional resource
transfer, resources from the Federal Fund will be exempt from the program
for achieving positive real interest rates. The combined total of Federal
Fund credits and credits under items (c) and (d) above is not expected to
exceed 25X of total investment in Yugoslavia during 1983-85 and will be
limited to 25% of domestic bank investment credits from 1986.
Financial Planning
30.      A further set of measures to be introduced involves improvements
in financial planning by the commercial banks. All dinar credit for
investment in Yugoslavia is channelled through the commercial banks, who
have the responsibility for ensuring that their aggregate commitments are
consistent with the resources available to them. The banks have, by law,
hitherto undertaken their forward budgeting in constant prices except for
the current year; while this procedure was satisfactory at a time of low
inflation, it has seriously disrupted liquidity management at a time of
variable and at times relatively high inflation. While no system of
planning can fully cope with such uncertainty, the YBA, in consultation
with the Federal Institute for Social Planning, will no later than the end
of 1983, propose an appropriate methodology to enable the banks to make
their financial and operational projections at current prices starting in
1984. Adequate progress in improving financial planning procedures for
commercial banks would be a condition for releasing the second tranche of
the SAL (Section (e)(iii) of the Schedule to the draft Guarantee
Agreement). In this connection, the Institute for Social Planning intends
to provide, starting at the end of 1983, the necessary medium-term
assumptions to be used by all banks in preparing their financial and
operational projections at current prices. To further improve the
liquidity and accountability of the banks, the Government is taking
measures to enforce the law requiring that the banks maintain a reserve
fund ana a joint liability fund, each equivalent to 3X of their total



- 14 -
investments at the end of the preceding year. To this end banks will be
required to set aside a portion of their net income until their statutory
obligations are met, over a period of six years.
C. Foreign Exchange Allocation and Exteraal Trade Policies
Foreign Fxchange Allocation
31.      Yugoslavia has one of the most complex trade and payments regimes
of any country. 1/ Nominal tariff rates are at reasonable levels, with the
highest published tariff at 25%, and the average tariff rate around 10% in
recent years. The formal quantitative restriction regime is also not
excessively restrictive, with the value of non-oil imports subject to
quantitative restrictions declining fom an estimated 42Z in 1977 to 34Z in
1980. However, a major source of distortion in recent years has been the
mechanism for allocating foreign exchange among regions and enterprises.
The Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Foreign Credit Relations of 1978
was intended to reflect the principles of self-management in the sphere of
foreign exchange allocation, by placing the primary responsibility for
external payments balance on the enterprise sector directly, with minimal
interference by administrative bodies. Under these arrangements
institutions called Communities of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations
(CIFER) were established at the level of each republic and autonomous
province, and at the Federal level. The CIFER provided a forum where
enterprises and other interested bodies (such as social and political
communities) could reach agreement on the criteria by which foreign
exchange inflows and foreign borrowing rights were to be distributed. To
facilitate this process the balance of payments forecast for the country
was further divided into balance of payments positions for each region, and
these positions were the basis for allocation of foreign borrowing rights.
32.      While this was not the intention, the practical effect of these
arrangements was to restrict the interregional flow of foreign exchange.
This was partly because the official exchange rate was substantially
overvalued in the period after the law's introduction; one consequence was
that the interbank foreign exchange market atrophied. In addition the
different allocation criteria used in each regional CIFER resulted in a
great diversity of effective exchange rates across sectors and regions,
with resulting loss in allocative efficiency. Equally, the degree of
protection afforded to domestic producers varied across the country and
over time, as the protection provided by the implicit or explicit rationing
of foreign exchange varied.
33.      The adverse consequences of this system of foreign exchange
allocation and the need for a less fragmented foreign exchange regime have
1/ A fuller account of this system, and of its allocative implications can
be found in Report No. 2972-Y-U, Yugoslavia: Export Performance and
Policies, October 16, 1980, and Report No. 3954-YU, Adjustment Policies
and Development Perspectives (ibid.)



- 15 -
been major themes of the Bank's economic dialogue with the government in
the last three years and is the focus of the Computable General Equilibrium
(CGE) mcdel of Yugoslavia developed in the Bank, now being transferred to
Yugoslavia (see para. 69). Equally, the Stabilization Commission has
argued forcefully for a return to a genuinely unified exchange rate and to
a limited form of current account convertibility for the dinar. However,
given the degree of disequilibrium in the foreign exchange market that has
arisen, elimination of these distortions is a process that will take two or
three years.
34.      In consultation with the ILMF, the Government is now following a
considerably more active exchange rate policy. As noted in para. 10, the
dinar depreciated by 49% against the US dollar in 1982 -- a 12% real
davaluation -- and has continued to depreciate in the first half of 1983.
These movements more than offset differential inflation between Yugoslav-a
and its trading partners. More appropriate foreign exchange pricing will
itself help to improve the efficiency of foreign exchange allocation.
Second, as an interim step to improve the interregional flow of foreign
exchange, the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Foreign Credit
Relations of 1978 was amended at the end of 1982. The main effect of the
amendments is to transfer responsibility for foreign exchange allocation
from the regional CIFER to the Federal CIFER, in conjunction with the
Federal Chamber of Economy. At the same time the calculation of individual
balance of payments positions for the republics and provinces has been
abolished; instead, foreign exchange allocation is to be determined within
industry associations operating at the Federal level. This new system of
foreign exchange allocation has only recently beer initiated, and there are
as yet uncertainties on its functioning and impact. However, with the
finalization of the international financial assistance package referred to
earlier, the situation as regards foreign exchange availability is now
somewhat easier than had been anticipated when the amendments to the law
were prepared. It should therefore be possible to move relatively quickly
on further reform of the system. The Government intends to establish, by
the end of June 1983, a monitoring group to assess the operation of the
current system, which is to report by September 1983. The report, which
would be discussed with the Bank and the IMF, will include a program to
increase foreign exchange mobility further by encouraging voluntary sales
of foreign exchange earnings by exporters. This program would be
implemented starting in January 1984, with a view to achieving substantial
liberalization of the foreign exchange allocation system over the next two
years. The adequacy of progress in monitoring the operation of the system
of foreign exchange allocation and in the formulation of a program aiming
at an increase of foreign exchange mobility would be a condition for
releasing the second tranche of the SAL (Section (c) 6f the Schedule to the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
External Debt Monitoring
35.      To assist in better planning of the country's foreign exchange
transactions the Government has embarked on a program to improve the



- 16 -
monitoring and reporting of its foreign payments. One element of this
program is the conversion of the country's balance of payments accounting
from a system of statistical exchange rates to one of current exchange
rates, which takes better account of movements in exchange rates between
foreign currencies. This will both permit a better picture of the balance
of payments accounts and a better reconciliation between these accounts and
foreign exchange cash flow management. An additional element in the
program is completing computerization of the system of external debt
reporting, which has been underway for several years. The Government
intends to provide the resources necessary to ensure that this system is
functional by the end of 1983, and the Bank, in consultation vifh the IMF,
will be collaborating with the NBY to agree on reporting formats and a
timetable that will provide a suitable test of the system, while providing
information of use to the Bank and the Yugoslav authorities.
Export Promotion
36.      Given the importance of additional exports, particularly to the
convertible currency area, a major component of the adjustment program are
the measures being taken to achieve this objective. There is an immediate
requirement for foreign exchange by exporters to enable them to import raw
materials. Steps were taken to provide this in the second half of 1982,
when exporters were permitted to retain foreign exchange in excess of the
amounts ailocated to them by the regional CIFER, for purposes of meeting
confirmed export orders to the convertible currency area. The funds being
made available under the proposed SAL would be used to finance an Export
Development Pund (EDF) to meet the import needs of exporters (including
exporters of capital goods and contractual services) to the convertible
area. The EDF would be administered by Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB),
one of the largest Yugoslav banking groups. Operations of the EDF to be
financed from SAL proceeds are further discussed in Part III and Annex V.
In addition the government has indicated that funds being provided in the
form of commodity credits under the intergovernmental assistance package
(see para. 15) will also be used to finance similar export development
funds located in other banks. In this way the most immediate constraint
inhibiting exports to the convertible currency area should be relieved.
37.      An important component of Yugoslavia's exports are its exports of
capital goods, turnkey industrial projects, civil works and other services,
particularly to the developing countries. Yugoslavia has had
well-developed institutional arrangements for providing medium-term credits
in support of these exports for some time. In 1980 a new institution
called the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC) was
established to take the lead in export credit refinancing, insurance and
market information activities related to exports of capital goods and
services, together with a range of other functions. The YBIEC provides
dinar rediscount facilities to exporters of capital goods; in turn it
receives its own funds through a combination of credits from the National
Bank of Yugoslavia, the pooling of resources by its member organizations,



- 17 -
and repayment of past credits. The Government intends to take such action
as is necessary to ensure that adequate funds are made available to the
YBIEC in 1984 and 1985 for it to support the activities of Yugoslav
exporters of capital goods and services. In addition an action plan is
under preparation to strengthen the institutional capability of YBIEC,
particularly with respect to market information for capital goods and
engineering exports. More generally, while a broad array of institutions
in Yugoslavia are engaged in export promotion and marketing, there is scope
for increasing the efficiency of this effort. By June 1983, a working
group is to be established within the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade
to review current activities in this area and the coordination among the
various institutions involved, in order to prepare recommendations for
action.
Trade Incentives
38.      Concurrent with these activities to strengthen the institutional
infrastructure for exports, the system of incentives provided to exporters
needs to be revised. The present system is a patchwork of measures at the
Federal and regional levels, and therefore differs in its impact from
region to region; in addition, multiple forms of export subsidization have
become necessary to compensate for the increasing over-valuation of the
exchange rate. This structure of export incentives does not promote
exporting on the basis of efficiency or comparative advantage, and a review
of the export incentive system has been underway for some time. A revised
system of export incentives is now under preparation and will be discussed
with the Bank prior to its implementation in 1984. Thl.s revision will take
account of the fact that with a more realistic exchange .ate there should
be less need for export subsidization. The revision will also aim to
ensure uniformity in treatment of products, to relate incentive levels to
the value of net foreign exchange earnings per branch (so as to encourage
export specialization) and to provide duty-free access to imports for
efficient exporters.  Exporting on the basis of c:nparative advantage would
be further encouraged by a return to a more liberal import regime. While
current foreign exchange availability does not make this a feasible
prospect at present, the Government is making a beginning by reducing the
value of goods subject to quantitative restrictions. The program, which
would be prepared1 by September 1983 for implementation starting in 1984,
would reduce goods subject to quantitative restrictions (excluding oil
imports) to no more than 20% of total imports. To guide import
liberalization in the future, and to establish a medium-term framework for
export incentives, the Government intends to undertake a study of effective
protection and comparative advantage. Terms of reference for this study
have been prepared in consultation with the Bank, and the study will be
completed by April 1985, in time for it to guide commercial policy and
investment incentives in the 1986-90 plan.



- 18 -
D. Price Policies and Enterprise Decision-making
The Regulatory Framework
39.      A major objective of Yugoslavia's structural adjustment program is
to increase the role of world market prices and domestic market forces in
price formation. An appropriate pricing structure is also a precondition
for eitablishing greater enterprise accountability, since it is difficult
to hold enterprises responsible for losses when prices are held at
uneconomic levels. As elimination of price distortions generally involves
corrective increases for prices which have been allowed to lag behind the
rate of inflation, in the short run such changes can conflict with another
objective of government policy, that of reducing the rate of inflation.
For this reason the Yugoslav authorities have adopted a gradualist approach
to correcting major price distortions.
40.      The basic legal framework for Yugoslav price policy is provided by
the Law on the Bases of the Price System and Public Price Control of 1980.
This law provides for the establishment of comnunities of interest for
prices at the communal, republican/provincial and Federal levels to conduct
public price control. Under this law workers in BOALs were to set tLe
prices of their products in accord with certain specified criteria.
However, if the public interest so warranted, sociopolitical communities at
each level of the federation could mandate that self-management agreements
and social compacts be concluded, or take steps to regulate the prices
through the appropriate community of interest (COI) for prices. In effect
prices fall into three categories: those regulated at the Federal level
through the setting of price ceilings, those for which price ceilings are
set at the republican, provincial or local level, and those determined by
BOALs without the intervention of the COIs for prices.
41.      On July 31, 1982, under an exceptional provision of the 1980 price
law, the Federal Executive Council transferred the authority for price
regulation from the republican, provincial and local price communities to
the Federal Community for Prices and mandated it to fix ceiling prices for
all goods and services except for those sold on farmers' markets. During
the subsequent six months the Federal Community for Prices had the sole
authority to grant increases in price ceilings for the controlled goods and
services. The selective price "freeze" was extended for a further six
months on January 28, 1983, but authority to grant price increases for some
products was restored to the republican and provincial price communities.
In the first quarter of 1983 the price ceilings of some key goods and
services were increased between 25X and 35X. These included electric
power, coal, petroleum products, railway transport, rents, and some food
items.
42.      On January 31, 1983 a Social Compact on Price Policy for 1983 was
signed establishing procedures for gradually pnasing out ceiling prices for
most goods and services. In accord with this social compact, the number of



- 19 -
goods and services suLject to price ceilings is being progressively
reduced, and long-term price policies are being prepared in the energy,
ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, basic chemical, agriculture, forestry,
and rail transport sectors. By the end of September 1983 these long-term
price policies will be established and amendments to the 1980 price law
will be passed to increase the role of world market prices and domestic
market conditions in price formation and to reduce the nuober of
commodities subject to review by the republican and provincial price
communities. In May 1983 the Federal Executive Council freed a substantial
share of industrial products from direct price control. A timetable is to
be discussed with the Bank h- September 1983 for further price
liberalization in 1984 and 198$ so that by the end of December 1985 only a
limited number of defined goods and services will be subject to review by
price communities at all leveib.
Sectoral Pricing Issues
43.      Energy Pricing.  Under current energy pricing policies, the prices
of all petroleum products are at or above their respective border prices.
Within this structure, liquified petroleum gas (LPG), gasoline and diesel/
gas oil, which are used mainly by the household and transport sectors, are
heavily taxed, while prices of fuel oil and aviation fuel are maintained
near parity with border prices. In January 1983, the weighted average
price for petroleum products was about Din 25,200/ton (US$437/ton) compared
with al- average weighted border price of about Din 14,100/ton
(US$235/ton). Further increases ranging between 15% and 402 were announced
in April 1983. The Government intends to maintain this price structure in
real terms by adjusting prices periodically to reflect world market trends,
exchange rare changes and domestic inflation.
44.      The pricing of natural gas in Yugoslavia differs between imported
and domestic gas, and, in the latter case, between the end-uses of the
natural gas.  In 1982, imported gas accounted for 56% of the total
consumption of natural gas. All of this gas is imported from the Soviet
Union, on the basis of prices and quantities set in a five-year contractual
agreement.  Under this agreement, Yugoslavia pays a price for natural gas
which is pegged to the price of fuel oil. In December 1982 this price was
Din 9.43/m3 ($182.8/toe). In the case of domestic natural gas, there are
two different prices charged. Gas used for feedstock is set below its
price when used as a source of primary energy. In December 1982, the price
charged for domestic gas when used as a source of primary energy was Din
5.36/m3 (US$103.9/toe), while gas used as feedstock was pricsd at Din.
3.E.im3 ($71/toe) for nonfertilizer uses, and at Din. 4.89/mn
'$94.7/toe) for fertilizer production.
45.      These differentials between the prices of imported and domestic
gas are unjustified on economic grounds. They encourage uneconomic use of
domestic gas and distort the structure of gas prices relative to the prices
of competing petroleum products. Moreover, revenues accruing to work



- 20 -
organizations responsible for exploration and development of domestic gas
have been insufficient to provide resources for the development of proven
gas fields, which are therefore lying unexploited. Meanwhile, however, the
increased demand for natural gas stimulated by low domestic prices has been
met by increasing imports. The Government has now embarked on a program to
correct relative price differentials in energy. Ir this context it intends
to increase the price of domestic natural gas to world levels. Gas prices
were substantially increased in May 1983. Further annual adjustments in
real terms are intended to ensure that the price of domestic gas reaches
parity witlh the price of imported gas by January 1987. The views of the
Bank will be taken into account in determining the phasing of such
increases over the period.
46.      The pricing of coal has so far been undertaken on an ad hoc basis,
particularly in the case of mines producing mainly for the supply of power
stations. Sale of coal and lignite to power stations is undertaken on the
basis of trar.fer prices which are set to ensure that the operatior of
power stations is viable. This has been partly responsible for the
development of mines which fail to capture economies of scale and the
construction of power plants that are not dictated by least cost
considerations. Coal prices have generally not been adequate to provide
the cash needed to finance the expansion program. The authorities have
recently required the coal subsector to generate 40Z of the resources
needed to finance its investment program. In addition, 10% of the revenues
collected by taxing petroleum products are now channelled to finance the
development of the coal mining industry.
47.      In order to provide the proper signals to the enterprises, the
price of coal and lignite should be set equal to the average long run
marginal cost of supply, adjusted for the financial target set by the
authorities. However, before this pricing policy can be implemented, a
methodology for determining long-run marginal cost needs to be developed
and adopted by all republics and provinces. The authorities intend to
initiate by September 1983 and complete by December 1983 a study to
establish the methodology for pricing coal and lignite in accordance with
terms of reference to be reviewed with the Bank. The results of the study
and the recommended pricing measures will be discussed and reviewed with
the Bank in January 1984. They would then serve as a basis for setting
future coal pricing policies such that the long term price policy will be
fully implemented by December 1987.
48.      Average electricity tariffs for the major consumers (bulk, medium
voltage, etc.) in the republics and provinces are between 38X to 65% of the
economic cost, depending on the consumer category. The power subsector has
experienced severe delays in implementing the investment program for
1976-1980 mainly because of a shortage of financial resources. This has
been primarily due to the inadequacy of the prevailing tariffs. Moreover,
despite the deceleration of economic growth between 1979 and 1980, the
growth of electricity consumption has remained unabated, largely as a



- 21 -
result of the low price of electricity relative to other competing energy
sources. To correct the distortion in the pricing of electric energy and
to secure the revenues needed to implement the investment plans of the
power subsector, the average electricity tariff in each republic and
province will be moved to achieve parity with economic prices over a period
of 4-5 years. As a first step electricity tariffs were increased by 252 in
March 1983. A further increase in tariffs is intended in January 1984 to
raise tariffs by 15% in real terms (over the rise in producer prices since
April 1, 1983). Increases in real terms, at least on an annual basis, are
intended thereafter to achieve electricity prices equivalent to the
long-run marginal cost of supply throughout Yugoslavia within 5 years. The
Yugoslav power sector will develop by January 31, 1984, in consultation
with the Bank, a methodology for calculating long-run marginal cost
specific to the particular circumstances and resource endowmen's of
Y-.goslavia. The level of the annual real adjustments in tariffs will
annually be agreed upon with the Bank prior to the increases being put into
effect.
49.      Other Sectors.  In agriculture, the purchase prices of major
commodities are subject to Federal regulation. At present this pricing
structure broadly reflects world prices. The intervention prices are
normally set in September for the coming year and in most cases are below
market prices at the time of harvest, serving primarily as a guide to
farmers at the time of planting and as a floor for the market price at the
time of harvest. This policy framework will continue to apply but will
take more explicit account of projected exchange rate changes than has been
the case in the past.
50.      A major issue in the transport sector has been the development of
a tariff and pricing structure which promotes efficient utilization of the
transport network. During the last two years, increases in railway tariffs
have failed to keep pace with inflation, and compensation levels  have
increased. Gf. the other hand, motor vehicle registration fees and overall
taxes on motor fuel are set at realistic levels which are comparable to
those in most Western European countries, and are even higher in the case
of heavy vehicles. The main issue for road infrastructure relates to the
current inability of the highway authorities to fund a reasonable level of
road investments. This situation has resulted from the fact that general
budgetary contributions for road expenditures have virtually ceased and the
highways authorities now depend heavily for their revenue on the receipts
l/  In each region a community of interest (COI) comprising the regional
railway transport organization (RTO) and its users has been established
with responsibility for the development and implementation of railway
policies, including traffic, financing and investment plans. In order
to fill the gap between tariff-generated revenues and operating
expenses, compensation payments are raised in the form of a levy on the
members of the COI. This levy is based on the enterprise income of COI
members and not the actual costs incurred by the particular RTO for
carrying traffic on their behalf.



- 22 -
from part of the tax on fuel. These receipts have not kept pace with
inflation, at a time when the authorities have had to devote a larger part
of their receipts to defray the higher service burden on foreign debts
resulting from the depreciation of the dinar.
51.      To address these issues, the long-term price policy in railway
transport will provide for annual tariff itcreases above the annual rate of
inflation such that compensation payments to all RTOs will be eliminated by
the end of 1990, with some minor exceptions possibly occuring in the RTOs
serving Kosovo and Montenegro which account for only 3% of total railway
traffic. Toward attaining this objective, railway tariffs were increased
by 17X in December 1982 and 15% in February 1983. The Government intends
to increase railway tariffs by 10 in real terms in January 1984 (i.e.,
over the rise in producer prices during 1983), and by at least 6Z in real
terms every January thereafter to ensure that the level of compensation
payments continues tc decline over the previous year. The issue of railway
tariffs and compensation payments will remain subject to review between the
Bank and the Yugoslav authorities. For road user charges, the Government
in April 1983 increased the fuel tax earmarked for the highway authorities
by 3.2 dinars/liter for regular fuel and by 3.4 dinars/liter for premium
fuel. Its longer term policy is to adjust road user charges in line with
inflation in order to provide adequate funds for priority programs of road
investment and maintenance. In addition, at the time of increases in fuel
prices, the portion of these prices earmarked for road user charges will be
adjusted in accordance with the price policy then in force. In this
context, the Council of Republican and Provincial Self-managing COIs for
Roads will prepare, by September 1983, a study defining a program of road
maintenance and rehabilitation requirements.
Enterprise Decision-making
52.      Successful implementation of Yugoslav's structural adjustment
program requires increased financial accountability of enterprises.
without effective sanctions against loss-making enterprises, the allocative
gains from the greater reliance on markets and economic prices that is
planned, will be lost. In addition, excessive enterprise losses have
important implications for incomes policy, monetary policy, price behavior
and resource mobilization. The issues of enterprise losses and the
establishment of an equitable program of rehabilitation have featured
prominently in the work of the Stabilization Commission.
53.      In the past, enterprises which have incurred losses 1/ have had
recourse to a wide variety of sources for covering their losses. These
1/  An organization is regarded as having incurred a business loss if,
according to its annual balance sheet, it has not received sufficient
income a) to cover amounts spent on personal incomes provisionally
accounted and paid out, or b) to pay statutorily guaranteed personal
incomes for the accounting business period for which personal incomes
have not been provisionally accounted or paid, or for which statutorily
guaranteed personal incomes have not been paid.



- 23 -
have included: the enterprise's own reserves; reserves of other BOALs to
which they are linked by self-management agreements; "solidarity
contributions" from other enterprises which are important suppliers and
customers; pooled reserves at the commune and republican/provincial level;
bank loans and reschedulings; writeoffs of debts; postponement (or
cancellation) of tax and contribution obligations to sociopolitical
communities and communities providing social services. In addition,
enterprises have been able to pay for goods and services by issuing
promissory notes and other forms of deferred payment which they have not
always executed when due. Bankruptcy and liquidation, while legally
possible, have been rare. For all Yugoslavia, total losses of social
sector enterprises have ranged between 12 and 1.5Z of GDP in recent years,
with the experience of the LDR being considerably worse than that of the
MDR.
54.      The Law on Rehabilitation and Liquidation of Organizations of
Associated Labor of July 1980 provides the basic legal framework for
enterprise rehabilitation and bankruptcy. This law became effective on
December 31, 1980, and has since been amended twice. The law established
an automatic timetable for closing loss-making organizations which cannot
arrange for financial support for their rehabilitation programs. It also
provides for the reduction of personal incomes of workers in loss-making
organizations, and participation by banks and other entities in the design
and monitoring of rehabilitation programs and in establishing
responsibility for the source of the losses. Further amendments to this
law are currently under preparation, which would strengthen the role of
outside bodies in the design, execution and monitoring of rehabilitation
programs, and would increase the pressure of loss-making enterprises to
improve efficiency. In addition, amendments to the Law on Payments of 1975
are under consideration which would restrict tbe growth and nature of
interenterprise credit outside the banking system arising from trading
operations. in their Letter of Intent to the IMF the authorities have
indicated their intention to reduce the level of uncollected bills
outstanding and not covered by instruments of payment at the end of 1983 by
at least 50 million dinars compared with the level at the end of 1982.
Additional measures are to be taken by December 1983 to limit the aggregate
value of payments to cover operating costs of loss-making enterprises. The
Government's goal is to restrict the nominal value of such financial
support from common reserve funds of sociopolitical communities and
communities of interest to their nominal 1983 level in both 1984 and 1985.
This would imply a substantial decline of such support in real terms.
Sectoral Issues
Energy
55.      Yugoslavia's main commercially exploitable energy resources are of
lignite, brown coal, hydropower, oil and gas. In 1976 a 10-year plan was
prepared for the accelerated development of domestic energy resources to



- 24 -
reduce dependence on imported oil and gas. This plan served as a basis for
the 1976-1980 five-year plan, which projected a substantial drop in the
level of oil and gas imports. Instead, Yugoslavia's dependence on imported
energy increased, so that by 1980 imports accounted for 40% of the total
supply of energy compared with 34% in 1975. Moreover, over 50Z of the
investment planned for 1976-80 had to be slipped to the 1981-1985 period.
These developments reflected weaknesses in the policy framework, of which
the most important were: (a) distortions in the relative price of various
energy sources; (b) the absence of a well-functioning mechanism for
selecting priorities and mobilizing resources for their implementation; (c)
the failure of major energy consuming industries in formulating and
implementing programs for restructuring energy use; and (d) the shortage of
financial resources needed to finance the unrealistically large investment
program for energy.
56.      These shortcomings are addressed in the Government's program in
several ways. As discussed already, the Government is now committed to a
program which will realign prices of domestic natural gas and electricity
to economic levels, and to undertaking studies which will establish
methodologies for coal, lignite and electricity pricing. In addition,
economy-wide reforms of commodity and capital pricing will have their
influence on the energy sector as well. Notwithstanding these measures,
there remains a need for Yugoslavia to identify high priority projects
whose implementation would assist in achieving the revised targets of the
1981-1985 plan and the authorities have agreed to provide a core program
which would encompass the major investments needed to achieve the planned
targets for energy. These investments would be monitored by the
authorities to ensure that necessary foreign exchange and local funds are
made available for their quick completion. In addition, the Bank would
periodically review the progress made in implementing these investments.
57.      Energy Conservation.  The industrial sector, which accounted for
66Z of total energy consumption in 1982, has been slow in formulating and
implementing industrial restructuring programs involving energy
conservation, rehabilitation of technologies and substitution of domestic
for imported energy. In 1980, the Government formulated and adopted a
policy framework consisting of 40 measures aimed at improving energy
conservation and increasing the use of domestic coal and electricity. So
far little has been done to translate these measures into actual investment
plans. A pilot component for conducting energy audits and identifying
energy saving investments in industry was included in the Bank's Industrial
Credit VI project of 1982 (Loans 2132-YU and 2133-YU), which dealt witb
industry in the republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia. The main
constraints to the formulation and implementation of investment plans for
energy efficiency at the level of the work organizations has been the
shortage of foreign exchange needed to finance international consultancy
services, and the reluctance by the communities of interest in the power
sector to allocate their scarce financial resources to what they consider
to be unproductive investments in restructuring projects. Unless resources



- 25 -
are made available to prepare the feasibility studies and projects for
restructuring the major energy consuming industrial subsectors,
Yugoslavia's success in reducing its dependence on imported energy would be
limited. The Government has therefore indicated that it intends to request
from the Bank a technical assistance loan to finance studies for the
preparation of projects of energy conservation/conversion and substitution
to domestic energy resources. These studies, which would cover only major
interested energy consuming enterprises, would be carried out by
experienced international consulting firms in consultation with Yugoslav
firms. Terms of reference of energy conservation studies would be prepared
for enterprises selected in consultation vith the Bank; the adequacy of
progress in carrying out these studies would be a condition for releasing
the second tranche of the SAL (Section (d) of the Schedule to the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Once completed, the studies should provide a basis
for developing a program for energy conservation/conversion which could be
eligible for Bank financing.
Agriculture
58.      In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment has declined steadily in the post-war period. The agricultural
sector. however, remains important in the overall development of the
econoumy, contributing about 12Z of social product, and engaging about 30Z
of the country's active population. The agricultural sector accounts for
the income of one-third of the population-a group which is largely rural,
underemployed, and in the relative poverty target group with per capita
income under US$850 per annum. In addition, the agricultural sector makes
an important contribution to Yugoslavia's export earnings. The country has
a large agricultural resource base, and its favorable climatic conditions
have fostered the growth of a well-diversified agricultural sector with
significant potential for future development. The sector is characterized
by the co-existence of social and individual (private) sectors. About 83Z
of agricultural land is owned and operated by nearly 2.6 million individual
farmers, making it the only predominantly privately-owned sector of the
economy. With an average family holding of around 3.2 ha, the individual
sector represents about 95% of the total agricultural labor force, and
accounts for about 852 of maize production, 60X of wheat, 752 of
vegetables, and ownership of between 85% and 95% of all livestock.
59.      In recent years Bank lending in agriculture has shifted toward
projects which provide an integrated support system for individual sector
farmers with particular emphasis on institution building and improved
access to credit, other agricultural inputs and extension services. In
recognition of the complex policy issues facing Yugoslavia in the
agricultural sector the Bank is supporting a series of in-depth studies of
agricultural development issues. Recently a study of agroindustry
development was completed. This study, which is currently being reviewed
with the Yugoslav authorities, provides a detailed assessment of
Yugoslavia's agroindustrial capacities and its future investment needs. It



- 26 -
is envisaged that this study will form the basis for revisions of the
1981-85 plan for agricultural action programs which will be prepared for
each branch of agroindustry by Novemer 1983 for implemenitation in the 1984
and 1985 annual plans in discussion with the Bank. The Bank is also
engaged in a joint study of primary agricultural production with the
Yugoslav authorities which examines the framework of agricultural policy
and is expected to lead to concrete proposals for agricultural policy
reform. The study will be completed by December 1983. Based on this study
a working group will prepare by March 1984 a program for phased
implementation. It is envisaged that the reforms will be supported within
the context of a possible second SAL operation or future agricultural
projects.
E. Expected Effects of the Structural Adjustment Program
60.      Table 1 summarizes the key features of the Government's adjustment
program as discussed above, distinguishing between actions already taken,
and steps to be taken. Within the latter category the table distinguishes
between areas where a program of action is already defined, and those where
the next steps consist of program development. Successful implementation
of the adjustment program would restore equilibrium to Yugoslavia's balance
of payments, by restoring rapid growth in exports to the convertible
currency area. These conditions would facilitate a return to the
international commercial capital markets under more normal arrangements,
permitting a resumption in growth, investment and employment. During the
next few years, balan'ce of payments considerations dictate continued
stringent domestic demand policies. For this reason, the economy is
expected to run at less than full capacity and the rate of growth of GDP is
projected to average only one percent per year between 1983 and 1985; this
reflects estimated negative growth in 1983, and a gradual recovery
thereafter. Given the Government's efforts to ensure continued export
competitiveness through frequent exchange rate adjustments and the other
policy measures which are being introduced to promote exports, exports are
projected to grow at a considerably faster pace over the next few years,
particularly to the convertible currency area. This rise in exports will
enable Yugoslavia to increase its imports and will facilitate a stronger
revival in the rate of growth of the economy in the 1986-90 period. It is
expected that the medium-term policies currently under implementation or
under development will ensure that this recovery in economic activity is
sustainable over the longer term and will be accompanied by improvements in
the overall efficiency of the economy.



- 27 -
Table 1: SDUCTuRAL ADJUS7T LUAI PROGRA
Structural Adiustment Program
Sector and Policy Ineues                    Action Already Taken                      Steps to be Taken
I. INVESTINT POLICY AND RESOURCE
ALLCCATION
Action
C-) Revision of Investment Plan     Tbere have been substantial           The authorities are preparing a revised plan for che
reductions in the volume of           1981-85 period to be finalized by the end of the
investment in the le-t three         year. Submission to Parliament of the Revised 1981-85
years. with especially deep cuts      Plan is a condition of the second treanche release.
imposed on non-economic              Plan revisions are likely to assume continued
inves tent. Strict budgetary          implemntation of *tabilization policies and
controls will be implemented          restraints on the level of investment. It is expected
during 1983 curbing investment        that, wben taken together with investment cuts in 1981
expenditures in non-economic          and 1982. the volume of fixed investment will be
activities.  For economic             20-252 lower than in the original five-year plan. The
activities new investment laws       details of the proposed amendments to the plan, with
restrict the access of                particular emphasis on the main development objectives
non-priority inestors to bank        and the priority sectors for investment, will be
credit for financing cost             submitted to the Dank no later than the end of
overruns and raise                   September for discussion in October/November along
self-financing requirements for      vith the first semi-annual report on investment (see
new projects. They are expected       below). In addition, prior to adopting the annual
to lead to a significant real        resolutions on economic policy for 1984 and 1985, the
reduction in investment              Bank will be informed on the content and macroeconomic
expenditures in non-priority          assumptions on which the resolutions are bused, with
investments,                         particular stress on the growth of investment, its
financing, and its sectoral allocation in the relevant
yer. There will be a full discussion and exchange of
view between the Bank and the appropriate authorities.
Work has begun on improving the syrtem of monitoring
investment approvals and expenditures in both new and
ongoing projects. Beginning August 1983 the
Govern ent will issue semi-annul reports on
invest ent which will show: i) sectoral allocation
of investment expenditures in relation to annual plan
targets; (ii) expenditures on individual large
projects with a view to determining whether priority
activities are accorded preferene; (iii) information
on new projects including projected economic rates of
return on all projects exceeding 750 million dinrs in
1983 prices (from April 198K). Beginning in June 198K
these reports will be issued on a quarterly basis.
These reports will be provided to the Bank for
discussion. Submission of the first such reporc to
the Bank is a condition of the second tranche release.
Program Developmenr
For Large Proiects
(b) Reprograming of Individual      At the project level individual       The Yugoslav authorities have prepared a project list
Investments to Ioprove quality  tepublice and provinces have          of ongoing projects exceeding 750 million dinars in
of Ongoing Investment Program. been reexamining their                 value (about 502 of investment program) for inclusion
investment program to reassess       in the monitoring system described sbove. As a
the desirability of individual       condition of second tranche release, rhe authorities
investments. However, there is       will define a program of priority investment projects
no federal level agreement on         in the energy sector for the period 1983-85, required
the rephasing of major projects,      to achieve planned targets (the core investment
program in energy).
Program Development
(c) Improving Project Selection     New legislation imposes stricter      The institutional mechanism for evaluating projects is
and Coordination                controls on the sources of            to be strengthened. Chambers of Economy, banks and
financing that must be secured       other signatories vill agree on minim  uniform
prior to initiation of                investment criteria, including minimum economic rates
investment. including mandatory      of return (differing by sector). calculated according
minimum self-financing by the         to the Bank methodology, for projects in the economic
investors on a sliding scale.        sectors through a special Social Compact on Uniform
which varies by purpose of            Investment Criteria to be passed by June 1983. The
investment.  Since Februsry 1983     Compact will establish inter-ageny groups, attached
new investment proposals must be    to the Chambers of Economy, to "give opinions' on
registered with regional or          proposed projects taking into account agreed
federal Chmbers of Economy           criteria. Conclusion of the compact vill be a
(depending on project size) to       condition of second tranche release. By December
enable other enterprises to           1983. Federal and regional Chambers of Economy and
comn_t on desirability of            banks vill prepare personnel and training recruitment
project. Yugoslav Banks              programs to provide necessary staff capacity for
Association CYBA) has developed       improving investment review procedures with a view to
a now manual for project             having sufficient trained staff in place to fully
evaluation (largely based on         implement these investment review procedu es by
Bank materials).                     December 1984.



- 28 -
Table 1: STRUCTURAL ADJDSUET LOa  pROGRAM
Structural Adjustment Progr_a
Sector and Policy Issues                     Actions Already Taken                     Steps to be Taken
1. INVESTh     POLICY AID RESOURCE
ALLOICTION (continued)
(d) Indwtrial Restructuring                                                Studiea for reatructuring of selected industrial
subsectors are to be initiated with the World Bank.
The modalities of the studies woqld be discussed in
September 1983 with the Bank.
(e) Investment incentives            Interest rates on long term           If inflation rate exceeds 202 during the first half of
deposits have been incresed by        19P3 the Government will review interest rste levels
between 10 and 18 percent in the      with the DIF with a view to introducing further upward
past 12 months to a range of          adjustments during 1983.
13-Z8 percent. thus
significantly raising the cost        Agreement to reach positive rates for intermediated
of funds co borrowers of bank         funds by gradual incresses in minima lending rates to
resources,                            achieve positive lending levels for non-economir
activites by beginning of 1986 and for economic
activities with certain exceptions by the beginning of
1987. Exceptions for (s) export credits. (b) short
text credits of the National Bank of Yugoslavia for
agriculture, (c) credits for primary agricultura l
production nd (d) investment credits for priority
activities in the revised 5 year plan, te) special
funds for less developed regions. During 1983-85 the
value of (c). (d) and (e) vill be limited to 25
percent of the total annual investment. From 1986
more favorable rates on investment credits cen be
applied to only 25S of total investment credits of
doesetic banks. For item (c) and (d) positive
interest rates by the beginning of 1989.
Action
Additional legislation will be introduced by December
1983 to stimulate foreign investment.
Action
(f) Improving Financial Planning    Discussions between the YBA and        Under the present Law on Planning banks prepare
Bank staff were initiated during      investment plans on basis of constant prices.
preparation of Induatrial Credit    Inflationary movements are not adequately accounted
VI project.                           for leading to unrealistic planning, and frequent
underfinancing of specific investment projects. By
the end of 1983 the necessary methodology will be
developed to enable the banks to make their financial
and operational projections at current prices.
starting in 1984. Progress in this area will be a
condition for releasing the second tranche. Starting
at the end of 1983 the Federal Planning Institute,
with the assistance of other competent federal bodies,
will provide assumptions on future inflation and
exchange rate movements for use by financial
institutions in their financial and operational
planning.
Action
Improvements of the financial base and accountability
of banks are needed. Under the Credit and Banking law
of 1978, banks are required to maintain a Joint
Liability Fund (JLF) which can be used to write off
bad debts. The JLF must be not less then 3S of the
banks' total investments at the end of the preceding
year. Tne same law requires that the banks should
create a Reserve Fund to maintain their liquidity.
The Fund should be increased to 32 of total
investment, by investing out of the banks' net income
a aun equivalent co a minimum of 0.32 of their total
investoents. A number of Yugoslav banks are currently
in breech of both requirements. Steps will be taken
for all banks to fully meet these requirements in a
phased fasbion over a period of several years (6 years
in the case of the JLF). In addition, the provision
of the 1983 Annual Plan Resolution which requires the
banks not to use morc than 202 of their short-texr
resources for long-term loans will be maintained.



- 29 -
Table 1: STRUCTURAL ADJUSThT WAN PROGRAM
Structural Adjustent Program
Sector and Policy Issues                     Actions Alrdy Taken                      Steps to bc Taken
1I. FOREIG EXCHANGE ALLOCATION AND
EXTERNAL TRADE
1 General
Action
(C) Exchange Rate                   A gradual depreciation of diner       The Government intends to enoure continued
during 1982. together with step      competitiveness of the Yugoslev economy through a
devaluation of 202 in October        program of continuou- exchange rate adjustments.
1982 produced 122 (year on year)
real devaluation in 1982.
Program Development
(b) Foreign Exchange Allocation     The 1978 Law on Foreign Exchange      A monitoring group bas been establiahed by the Federal
Operations and Foreign Credit        authorities to assess the effects of the new
Relations was substantially          arrangements. The group's term  of reference have
amended in Dece ber 1982 with a      been agreed with the Bank. The group will report to
view to promoting interregional      the Federal Executive Council (FEC) by September
foreign exchange mobility.           1983. The report would be available for discussion
However, the likely effects of       with the Bank and the DI, ed  will include a program
the new law are as yet difficult     of activities to improve foreign exchange  obility by
to gauge, given its recent           undertaking necessary measures for reactivating the
implementation.                      domestic foreign exchange market and more liberal
procedures for stimulating organizations with surplus
foreign exchange to sell it to deficit organizations.
Following these discussions the modalities for
implementing revised procedures resulting from the
report will be decided. Submission of the report to
the Bank will be a condition of release of the second
tranche.
Action
(c) Monitoring of Foreign           The National Bank of Yugoslavia       NIY vill take necessary measures (including provision
Borrowing and Debt              (NBY) has been engaged for some       of staff and financial measures) to ensure that the
Informtion                      time in a program to computerize      conputerized system of debt reporting is fully
its debt reporting system; it        operational and capable of providing analytically
has also worked closely with the     unable information by the end of 1983. By July 1.
IN? and the conerciel banks to       1933, the Dank will agree vith the NBY on reporting
improve the quslity of the data      formts and a timtable that will provide a suitable
on Yugoslavia's current debt         test of the system while providing information of use
situation,                           to the Yugoslav authorities and ths Bank.
2. ncport Incentives
Action
(a) Access to Ioports               Law introduced in October 1982        A permnent revolving "Export Development Fund" (EDF)
giving priority in foreign           will be established with SAL funds to provide imports
exchange allocation to exporters    to exporting enterprises. Creation of the EDF will be
with signed export contracts.        a condition of loan effectiven.zs.  In addition to the
proceeds of the SAL the EDF slhall be enlarged with
foreign exchange permnently 1.urchased from exporters
that have benefited from EDF resources. The EDF will
be further augmented in 1984 and 1985.
Action
(b) Increasing Yugoslav Export      Tugoslav Bank for International       The YBIEC has prepared projections of its resource
Credits                         Economic Cooperation (YBIEC)          need. to meet the demnd for refinancing media end
established 1980.                    long term export credit up to 1985. The necessary
finacial resources will be made available by the
banka, the NBY and other appropriate sources in the
annual Plan Resolution for 1984 and 1985. An action
plan vill be prepared by October 1983 to strengthen
YDIEC's institutional capability, particulsrly in the
area of market information for capital goods and
engineering exports. Necessary institutionsl and
staffing changes will be implemented by September 1984.
Program Development
ic) Export Marketing                                                      A working group has been established to prepere by no
later than Merch 1984 an action plan to strengthen
Yugoslavia's export marketing arrangements. The plan
will be reviewed and discussed with the World Bank in
March 1984. Necessary institutional and staffing
changes will be completed by the end of 19B4.



- 30
Table I S7WCLURAL ADJUSThRUT LOAN PROGRAM
Structural Adjustment Progr_
sector and Policy lomms                      Actions Already Taken                     Steps to be Taken
FRIG0 DCWAE ALLOCATION AID
STRRAL TRADE (continued)
Action
(d) Strenghtening Export             During the past two year. the         The export incentive system will be revised to
Inentives                        Federal Comnity of Interest           encourage the expanion of efficient export activities
for Foreign Economic Relations        in terms of domentic coat, and to reflect the
(CIlE). the Federal Secretariat       principles of uniformity and  utomaticity. With the
for Foreign Trede and the             real exchange rate becoming the main incentive to
Federal Secreteriat for Finance       economic export.  Direct export subaidies (granted by
bave conducted a review of the        the republics and provinces) will be gradually phased
varioum export incentives,            out.  Fiscal incentives (such as direct and indirect
tax exemptions) will be the same for all industrial
branhes and related to: export value added (net
foreign exchange earninge); and export performance
(minimKas ratio of eKport to output). This will
encourage export specialization and export. with high
net foreign exchange earnings. Duty free access to
isported imports for exporters sill be provided
whenever justified by the level of net foreign
exchange earnings. Proposals for revision in the
export incentive system vill be reviewed by the Dank
in  lovember 1983. Vev export incentives will be
introduced in the 19t4 annual plan resolution.
Program Developmeot
3.  Import Liberalization            Since 1977 there has been a            Preparation of program for phased import
significant reduction in the          liberalization pri passu with liberalization of
share of imports subjeCt to           foreign exchange alloe tion.  Government to prepare
quatative restrictions and            program proposals by September 1983 for implementation
quotas requiring approval of the      in 1984 and 1985 with a view to limiting the value of
Federal Secretariat for Foreign       Ceoodities subject to quantitative restriction to a
Trade.  Between 1977 and 1982         maximum of 201 of total imports (excluding oil
the proportion of non-oil             imports).
imports subject to quantitative
restrictions declined from 422        Study
to 291 of total imports.
However, the impct of this            The Yugoslaw authorities will prepare a study of
liberalization has been negated       effective protection showing the effect of trade and
by de facto restrictions on use       payments restrictions on the domestic price structure
of foreign exchange.                  (for completion by April 1985). Terms of referene
for this study have been agreed with the bank. The
results of the study will be used to shape coemercisl
policy for the 1986-90 period.
III. P1ICR POLICY
Action
Under a temporary price control       Under the Social Compact on Price Policy for 1983, the
law passed in July 1982 price         number of coemodities subject to price ceilings is
ceilings were introduced on all       being progressively reduced.  Long-term price policies
ceodities except for produce         are being prepared in the energy, ferrous mad
mold in farmers markets  Until        nonferrous metallurgy  bsic chemicals, agricult-r
January 1983 the authority for        forescry and rail tranaport sectors to be finalized by
granting price increases has          September 1983.  By September 1983 Federal Assembly is
rested sith the FEC.                  expected to adopt the Law amending the 1980 Law on the
Thereafter. the eutbority for         Price System to: .i) substantially increase the role
granting price increases for          of world prices and mrker forces and Cii) reduce the
Aoms products has been                number of coiodities subject to the review of the
tranfered to Counities for           COIt for Prices.  In May 1983 the FEC freed a
Interest (Cot   for Prices at         substantial share of industrial products from its
the Federal, Republican and           direct control.  Only a limited number of defined
Provincial lsvel.  However.           ceodities (e.g. petroleum And petroleum derivative)
inflation has not moderated           are now subject to direct federal control.  The
aignificantly aince the               intention over the medium-tern is to continue to
introduction of these new             increase the proportion of comodities where prices
meaures nd progress in                are set independently by Organizations of Asoeciated
reducing distortions between the      labor COALs) and are subject only to regintretion
relative price structure in           with the COla for Prices. This intention vill be
Yugoslavia and world prices hba       reflected in proposals to be made in the last quarter
been disappointing.  In January       of 1983 and 1984 regarding price policy in the
1983  a Social Compct on Price        forthcoming year.  Provisions have also been made for
Policy for 1983 we signed, ad         an exchange of views between the Rnk and the Yugoalav
in February the price ceilings        authorities on the progress of price liberalization in
on some key c_odities-                the last quarter of each year. A timetable will be
including electricity, oil            agreed by September 1983 for further liberalization in
products, railway                     1984 and 1985 such that by December 1985 only a
trenaportation, rents and  ome        liited number of defined  ceodities of special
food items were raised by an          social significance will be subject to the reviev of
average of about 25X.                 the COIt for Prices.
(a) Agriculture. Purchase prices of major
co_modittes subject to federal regulation are
generally above world prices and relative prices are
broadly in line with world prices. Prices are
normally set in September for the coming year end will
take into account world prices snd projected exchange
rate changes.



-31 -
Table h. STRIIItAL AWusrnTgr LOU PROCRAM
Structural Adjustment Progrum
Sector and Policy Isaue                        Actions Already Taken                      Step. to be Taken
PRICE POLICY (continued)
() EnergyS Prices of domestic and imported crude
oil are currently at parity and petroleum products ere
aubetantially above world prices. This price
structure will be at leasc maintained in real terms by
adjusting prices periodically to world market trends,
the diner exchange rate and domestic inflation. The
prices of the products 'ill be reviewed at least twice
a year to determine whether adjustments are required
in the light of these factors. In the case of natural
gas, the internal price of domestic gas is
aignificantly below that of imported gas. Price. of
domeatic gas 'ill be increaaed to achieve parity with
the imported price by January 1987. Towards reaching
this objective the first major adjustment vas made in
May 1983. Further annual rcal adjuatments, in the
prices of domestic gau 'ill be implemented in
conformity with the long-term price policy, after
exchange of views with the World Bank. In the case of
lignite, coal and electricity the intention is to
forutlate a long-term policy for achieving parity with
economic prices over a period of 4 to 5 years.
Detailed terms of reference have been agreed between
the Dank and the Yugoslav authoritiea on a atudy aimd
at setting a pricing methodology for coal, lignite and
electricity. The study will be initiated in September
1983 and completed by end 1983. The results of the
study and the reconmended pricing measures would be
discussed and reviewed with the Dank in January 1984.
Further, in the case of electricity tariffs, the
average tariff 'ill be moved toward parity with the
long-term marginal cost of supply over a 4-5 year
period (implying, on average, a 100 percent increase
in real term.). Towards reaching chis objective
prices will be increased by 15Z in real terms (over
the increase of producer prices during April-December
1983) in January 1984. Further annual real
adjustments in tariffs will be implemented in
subsequent yea.s, whose level would be annually agreed
with the World Bank prior to the increases being put
into effecc.
(c) Tranaport Railway tariffs will be increased
in real terms each year so that compensation payments
to Railway Transport Organizations are eliminated,
with minor exceptions, by the end of 1990. Towards
this objective railway tariffs are to be increased in
January 1984 by at least OZ in real terma (over the
increase of producer prices during: uary-December
1983). From 1985 to 1989, railway t -iffs will be
increased by at least 6: in real terms every January
to ensure that compensation payments dec.ine over the
previous year, after an exchange of view vith the
Bank. Road user charges will be adjusted in line vith
inflation, to provide adequate funds for road
investment and maintenance. The Council for
Republican and Provincial Self-Kanaging Comunities of
Interest for Roads will prepare, by September 1983, a
study defining a program of road maintenance and
rehabilitation requirementc.
IV. FINANCiAL DISCIPLINE
Action
Law on Rehabilitation and              The following legislative measures are to be passed by
Diasolution of Organizations of        June 1983:   i) amendments to the Bankruptcy Law which
Associated Labor of 1980               will strengthen the role of external creditors in the
('Bankruptcy Law') establishes         design, execution and monitoring of rehabilitation
automtic timetable for closing         programs which vill give the SDK the right of
loss-taking enterprises which          initiation of bankruptcy procedures; (ii) amendments
cannot arrange financial support       to the Law on Payments of 1975 designed to restrict
programs.  Law on Social               inter-enterprise credits *rising from trading
Accounting Service (SDI)               operations outside the banking syatem.
modified to enable it to enforce        Inter-enterprise credit not covered by inatruments of
incomes policy,                        payment will be reduced by 50 billion dinars in 1983
as compred vith 1982; (iii) a new law preventing
investment in enterprisea vith insufficient working
capital will be passed.



- 32 -
Table 1: STRUCTURAL ADJUSThENT LOAN PR0GRAM
Structural Adjustment Progra
Sector and Policy Issues                      Actions Already Taken                      Steps to be Tken
FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE (continued)
Program Development
Establishment of control mechanism to limit aggregate
value of payments from comoon reserve funds of
sociopolitical communities and COla to cover operating
costs in loss making enterprises. Government will
prepare by December 1963 a progrm to monitor and
maintain scope of such interventions at their nominal
level in 1983 in 1984 and 1985. This would imply a
significant decrease in the value of such
interventions in real terms.
V. SECTOR POLICIES
Studies/Program Development
(a) Energy Conservation               National Program for Energy
Conservation has been passed;         The Federal Cocittee for Energy and Industry vill be
program defines guidelines which       responsible for preparing a program of energy
are to be included in social           conservation studies of enterprises which shall have
compacts and self-management           been selected in consultaton with the Bank, which may
agreements on energy                   be financed in part by a *15 million Bank loan.
conservation, substitution,            Agreement with the Bank on the term  of reference for
rationalization and                    these studies will be a condition of release of the
consumption.  Measures have been       second tranche.  Taese studies are expected to be
taken to convert factory and           initiated by September, and would take no more than
home heating from oil to               twelve months to complete.
domestic coal;  electric power
for domestic use is being
rationed and petrol ration
coupons have been introduced for
passenger vehicles. Bank
mossions have visited Yugoslavia
to exmine energy use patterns
in steel, cement, and refining
subeectors.
Progrr, Development
(b)  Agricultpral Investment          A study of Agricultural                Action programs for each branch of agroindustry vill
Processing Industry focussing on       be prepared by November 1983 and discussed with the
problems of excess capacity was        Bank. The results of these studies and programs would
submitted to Bank in December          be used for adoption in and implementation of the 1984
1982.                                 and 1985 Annual Plan Resolutions.
Studies
(c)  Agricultural Production          Yugoslav authorities have agreed       Completion of Primary Production Study, December 1983.
to terms of reference of a joint
study with the Bank of Primary         Program Development
Agricultural Production. Bank
financed regional development          Yugoslav authorities will begin phased implementation
projectr aimed at strengthening        of recommendations of Primary Production Study by
cooperation between social and         March 1984.  Measures will include (i) improved
individual sectors are under          marketing arrangements, tii) better access for
preparation.                           individual sector producera to agricultural inputs,
(iii) increased availability of financing for on-farm
investments. (iv) improvements in applied research and
extension arrangements, (v) increases in regional
budget and allocations for promoting individual sector
development, (vi) measures to accelerate land
consolidation activities.



- 33 -
Table 2: PROJECTIONS OF SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS
UNDER ALTERNATIVE ASSUMPTIONS
1983-1985                1986-1990
1980-82   Without      With       Without       With
(Esti-   Structural Structural  Structural Structural
mates)  Adjustment Adjustment  Adjustment Adjustment
Annual Growth Rates (Z)
GDP at market prices       0.6      -0.5         1.0          2.0        4.2
Industrial Production    -0.1       -0.6         1.7          2.5        5.9
Exports Goods and Non-
factor Services (GNFS)  1.5        2.3         4.3         3.9         6.7
Convertible Currency
Lerchandise Exports    -2.9        3.0         6.6          3.5        7.0
Imports of GNFS           -6.8       2.0         4.8          2.5        6.5
Gross Investment          -3.6      -2.5         0.4          2.5        4.1
Ratios                    1982             1985                     1990
Investment (2 GDP)        31.2      27.3        29.0        28.5        28.9
Balance on Current
Account (2 GDP)         -0.6       0.2         0.1          0          0.5
Merchandise Exports
(X Imports)             70.2      82.8        86.0        88.5        82.2
Deb: Service Ratio
(% Exports of Goods
and Services)           19.3      19.5        18.8        10.6        12.2
Debt Service Ratio
(Convertible
Currency Area)         26.2      26.4        24.7        16.8        17.3
61.      Table 2 illustrates the expected evolution of certain key
macroeconomic aggregates over the rest of the decade under alternative
scenarios. The analysis is grouped into two sub-periods, 1983-85 and
1986-90. These intervals correspond to the remainder of the present
five-year plan period and the next five-year plan period. They also,
however, reflect the probable phasing of the economy's transition from a
period of restrained domestic demand and slow growth to a situation where a
sustained export recovery permits a return to more dynamic growth, assuming
successful implementation of a structural adjustment program.
62.      Two scenarios are portrayed here.  Under the "with structural
adjustment" ecenario, the volume of exports to the convertible currency
area is expected to recover markedly in the 1983-85 period as the recovery
in the world economy gathers momentum, export competitiveness improves and



- 34 -
the structure of incentives in the economy rewards efficient exporters more
consistently and effectively. Given the current outlook for sluggish
growth ot world trade, an increase in convertible currency exports between
6% and 7% in real terms would imply a modest increase in Yugoslavia's share
of such trade. While this will not be easy, it is a reasonable forecast
given Yugoslavia's diversified export structure and the improving incentive
framework that exporters are expected to face. This improvement in export
performance, when accompanied by other policy measures in the adjustment
program designed to improve the efficiency of the economy, can be expected
to result in more favorable access to the international capital markets
than it currently enjoys. The projections (which are further elaborated in
Annex I) envisage gross capital inflows averaging $3.3 billion between 1983
and 1985; nowever, availability is projected to be somewhat lower in 1984
and 1985 than in 1983 given the exceptional efforts that are being made in
this year. These amounts are reasonable given the assumption of a
continued standby relationship with the IMF and relatively low growth in
overall indebtedness. This outlook for current and capital inflows enables
Yugoslavia to resume growth in imports and thereby output. The alternative
scenario, "without structural adjustment," projects the consequences of a
lower export growth to the convertible currency area, resulting from a
policy framework which does not provide the appropriate stimulus to
exports. ln this case, the share of Yugoslavia's exports in world trade
would continue to decline. This would affect the country's access to the
international capital markets and thereby slow the growth of imports and
output.
63.      Over the longer-term the structural adjustment program can be
expected to lead to a continued improvement in Yugoslavia's exports as well
as in overall growth performance. Yugoslavia would then enter a virtuous
circle whereby faster export growth would help to pay for cdditional
imports and to improve Yugoslavia's access to external .inance. This in
turn would enable Yugoslavia to liberalize its imports, to scale back the
degree of protection of the economy, improve efficiency, and return to a
faster growth path. Without such a program Yugoslavia would continue to
face severe foreign exchange constraints. Slower export growth would
oblige Yugoslavia to limit its imports, thereby increasig the degree of
protection in the economy and placing a brake on the rate of growth of real
output. Such a situation would also be expected to redtLe Yugoslavia's
access to external finance and to discourage the flow of workers'
remittances (which are also vulnerable to confidence factors). However,
such a scenerio is not considered likely given the economic measures which
have already been introduced and the Government's commitment to
implementing the policy measures outlined in the Letter of Development
Policy.
64.      Under both scenarios Yugoslavia's debt-service ratio is projected
to decline markedly over the course of the decade. In the "without
structural adjustment" case this is due to the fact that Yugoslavia's
aggregate debt level would not rise significantly, so that over time debt



- 35 -
service payments would decline in relation to export receipts. In the
'with structural adjustment" case Yugoslavia's borrowing requirements are
also expected to remain modest, as the current account position is forecast
to remain approximately in balance during the rest of the decade. However,
both ratios are expressed in relation to total export earnings. Given the
importance of non-convertible currency exports in the structure of
Yugoslavia's merchandise trade (with such exports accounting for 43 percent
of merchandise exports and 22 percent of total exports of goods and
services in 1982) the debt service ratio in convertible currency terms
would remain significantly higher. Accordingly by 1990 the convertible
currency debt service ratios would be approximately 50 percent higher than
the total debt service ratios shown in Table 2.
Part III - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
A.  Loan History
65.      Over the last several years there has been an intensive policy
cialogue between the Yugoslav authorities and the Bank. These have been
based on a series of economic reports leading up to and including the most
recent report, Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development
Perspectives (No. 3954-YU, dated November 2, 1982).  With the emergence of
lugoslavia's economic difficulties in the wake of the oil price increase of
1979180 and the attendant repercussions in the world economy, the Bank
strongly supported the intention of the authorities to refocus their
economic strategy and policy framework to address the structural adjustment
issues facing the e._-omy, as described in Part II of this report. As the
country's economic difficulties intensified, the Yugoslavs introduced a
series of economic measures to stabilize the economy and sought the support
of the IMF as described below.
66.      As the work of the Stabilization Commission progressed, it became
increasingly evident to the Yugoslav leadership that substantial changes in
the medium-term policy framework were need"d, over a wide range of areas,
in order to achieve a durable adjustment patn. It also became clear in the
second half of 1982 that the liquidity problems facing Yugoslavia in 1983
and 1984 would require a coordinated approach between the IMF, concernee
governments, the Bank for International Settlements, the commercial banks
and the Bank, so as to strengthen the country's capital account position.
At the ena of December 1982, the Government requested the Bank to give
urgent consideration to a structural adjustment loan to Yugoslavia in
support of its adjustment efforts. Bank representatives were also invited
to attend meetings of an intergovernmental group held under Swiss
Government auspices in Berne, Switzerland and of commercial banks in Zurich
under IME auspices to discuss the program of financial assistance to
lugoslavia (see para. 15). The Bank mounted an exploratory SAL mission to
Yugoslavia in January 19E3. Given the close dialogue between the Bank and
the authorities in recent years on issues of structural adjustment, it
proved possible to define the broad areas of policy action relatively



- 36 -
quickly. To facilitate discussion with the Bank a Steering Group was
established under the chairmanship of the Deputy Federal Secretary of
Finance, with representatives of a number of Federal agencies and other
bodies. An appraisal mission visited Yugoslavia in February/March 1983 and
a post-appraisal mission took place in April. Negotiations were held in
Washington from May 9 to 14, 19b3. The Government delegation was headed by
Dr. D. Grupkovic, Deputy Federal Secretary for Finance; the UBB delegation
was headed by Dr. H. Zecevic, Executive Vice President.
B.  IMF Activities in Yugoslavia and Relationship to the Proposed Loan
67.      Over the past three years Yugoslavia has made extensive use of the
resources of the IhF. In June 1980 the Board of Directors of the IMF
approved a two-year standby arrangement for an amount equivalent to SDR 339
million. On January 30, 1981 this arrangement was replaced with a
three-year standby arrangement for an amoun. equivalent to SDR 1,662
million or 400% of quota, financed from ordinary resources and the
supplementary financing facility. As of January 31, 1983 Yugoslavia's
drawings under the standby amounted to SDR 1,108 million.  The IDF program
has focused on the stabilization measures necessary to address Yugoslavia's
balance of payments problems with the convertible currency area. The
performance criteria attached to the first two years of the standby
agreement included ceilings on the total level of domestic credit extended
by the banking system; bank credit extended to the budget of the Federation
and the increase in the outstanding amount of debt in convertible
currency. In addition, exchange rate and interest rate policies have been
under continuous review between the IMF and the Yugoslav authorities, and
there has been considerable activity in these policy areas. The Letter of
Intent covering the third year of the standby program indicates the
Government's policy intentions in the areas of monetary policy, fiscal
policy, exchange rates, interest rates, selected prices and personal
incomes; performance criteria have been established which monitor exchange
rate developments, interest rates, growth in net domestic assets of the
banking system, growth in credit by the National Bank of Yugoslavia to the
Federal budget, growth in external debt, and limits on public expenditure.
In addition, the agreements with the Fund provide for a review of policies
and developments in the first half of the year, not later than August 15,
1983, at which time performance criteria will be established for the second
half of 1983.   ble 3 provides a sunmary of the principal understandings
reached bet hee   e Government of Yugoslavia and the IMF.
68.      There has been an extensive exchange of information and regular
consultation between the Bank and the IMP during the preparation of the
programs for the standby arrangement and for the proposed structural
adjustment loan, as well as in the context of the intergovernmental and
commercial bank meetings held in Switzerland earlier this year. Bank staff
members participated in the review mission for both the first and second
years of the standby arrangement, and an IMF staff member participated in
the economic mission which led to the Bank's recent economic report
Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives.



- 37 -
Table 3:
UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED BETIWEEN THE GOVER*MENI OF YUGOSLAVIA AND THE IMF.
Exchage Rate Policy:               During 1983 the exchange rate will be
adjusted steadily to provide a continuing
incentive for exporters.
lnterest Rate Policy:              Incres!es in qeposit interest rates of
between 4-8% were introduced in
February. As a result the cost of funds
to the banking system will be increased
by about 53 billion dinars or about 2.5Z
in 1983. If inflation in the first half
of the year exceeds an 20% annualised
rate, interest rates will be further
reviewed with the IMF at the time of the
mid-year review.
Credit Policy:                     Quarterly ceilings on the level of net
domestic assets of the commercial banking
system will be limited to an 8% annual
rate of increase in the first half of
1982. Ceilings for the second half of
1982 will be determined in the course of
the mid-year review. In addition, there
will be no credit from the National Bank
of Yugoslavia to the budget of Federation
in 1983.
Fiscal Policy:                     Public sector expenditure will be limited
to a twelve monthly rate of increase of
13%, and expenditures for collective
consumption to 182. If monthly data show
that revenue collections for the public
sector exceed 182, tax rates will be
reduced and excess revenues sterilized in
blocked accounts in subsequent months.
External Borrowing:                During 1983 the contracting of new loans
with maturities of between one and ten
years will be limited to a maximum of
tl.5 billion of which no more than $500
million will be loans of maturities
between one year and three years. The
limits exclude borrowing of the National
Bank of Yugoslavia and outstanding debt
that falls due in 1983 and that is rolled
over.



- 38 -
69.      The Bank has devoted a considerable portion of its economic work
to issues of in'-estment policy and the foreign trade and payments regime,
particularly in the period following the 1979 oil price shock. The
Government i! encouraging the Bank to continue with these efforts. Under
the Third Agricultural Credit Project (Ln. 1477-YU), for example, the Bank
commissioned in 1980 a substantial study of interest rate policy. In the
context of the proposed structural adjustment loan (SAL) the Bank will
actively monitor and review the actions, the program development activities
and the studies described in the Government's Letter of Development Policy
(see Annex IV). Bank staff members are also working closely with research
institutes and the planning authorities in Yugoslavia in transferring and
further developing a CGE model which was used in the preparation of the
most recent economic report on Yugoslavia (see para. 33). The purpose of
the model is to analyze the impact of Government policies on resource
allocation and the pattern of incentives facing export and import
substituting sectors in a medium term planning framework. This analysis
will continue to be used in addressing issues of medium-term structural
change in the economic development of Yugoslavia.
70.      The policies and actions indicated in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy are fully consistent with and complement the policy
actions being monitored by the IMF under the standby arrangement, with the
Fund concentrating more on the immediate need to resolve external liquidity
problems through demand management, exchange rate and external financing
actions, and the Bank concerning itself with the medium-term framework that
is emerging through the work of the Stabilization Commission and the
revisions of the five-year plan. The main areas of common interest between
the Bank and the Fund are in the areas of interest rate policy, foreign
exchange allocation, external debt monitoring, and price policy. In these
areas the institutions have complementary interests and the capacity to
assist the authorities in the formulation of policy. With regard to
interest rate policy the TIF arrangement includes an undertaking by the
Yugoslav Government to review the level of interest rates with the IRF if
the annualised rate of inflation exceeds 20X in the first half of 1983. It
also provides for a steady adjustment in the exchange rate during 1983 to
encourage exports. These measures are reinforced by understandings under
the SAL covering minimum lending rates and the creation of an EDF to
finance imports for exporting enterprises. In addition, the SAL addresses
medium-term policy issues in these areas. The SAL also includes a
substantial institution building component to strengthen the design and
monitoring of investment projects and a phased program for improving the
efficiency of the foreign trade and payments regime. In the area of price
policy, the IMF and the Bank are in general agreement on the direction of
price liberalization, and on the shifts in the structure of relative prices
thsat are needed to encourage efficient resource allocation. Increases in
the prices of electricity, coal, live animals and meat, and railway fares
were implemented by the Government in January and February 1983, in
consultation with the ISF. These increases are consistent with Bank
positions on these topics and are reinforced by the medium-term pricing



- 39 -
framework agreed to under the SAL on energy, transport and agricultural
pricing.
C. Benefits and Risks
71.      Benefits.  The main benefits of the proposed loan flow from the
policy adjustments described above, which are expected to lead to
improvements in investment efficiency and the balance of payments situation
(see paras. 60-62). Various understandings reached with the Government are
designed to ensure significant institutional and policy changes in
important areas such as investment planning and resource allocation,
foreign exchange allocation, foreign trade policy, price policies and
enterprise decision-making and some selected areas in the energy and
agricultural sectors. The SAL coincides with a wider effort to provide
financial assistance to Yugoslavia in overcoming its current international
liquidity difficulties. The ability of the Yugoslav authorities to reach
agreement with the Bank on a program of structural adjustment is regarded
by the international capital markets as an important affirmation of
Yugoslavia's commitment to addressing the medium-term problems facing its
economy. Private commercial banks have indicated to the Bank that the
prospect of a first SAL has been an important factor in their decision to
proviae continued financial support to Yugoslavia. The loan will help
assist Yugoslavia in meeting its financing needs through quick disbursing
funds. The EDF to be created will be of direct support to Yugoslavia's
export drive.
72.      Risks. The Government's structural adjustment program has two
major risks. The first risk is that the expected improvement in the
current account of the balance of payments, on the basis of which the
overall financial package to Yugoslavia has been based, will not
materialize. This relates partly to the uncertainties regarding the
international environment, particularly as regards the rate of growth of
world trade (which could affect Yugoslavia's export performance),
international interest rates and the price of imported energy ard partly to
the speed with which the Yugoslav Government implements the required
changes in the foreign trade and exchange system. The second risk is that
the rest of the program of economic reforms is not fully implemented or
does not lead to desired behavioral changes as quickly as needed or that
the program development process does not lead to the development of
satisfactory policy reform in the future.
73.      Yugoslavia's balance of payments position is undoubtedly
vulnerable to unanticipated changes in trade and payments flows,
particularly given its low level of international reserves (see para. 15).
This reserve position means that the authorities have only a limited
cushion against unforeseen developments. The immediate outlook for the
economy is predicated on the assumption that Yugoslavia will record a
surplus on current account during the second half of 1983. This goal is
attainable even with some setbacks in the pace of world economic recovery.



- 40 -
It will, however, require a recovery in merchandise export performance to
the convertible currency area and also that invisible receipts
(particularly as regards tourism and workers' remittances) do not
deteriorate in comparison with 1982. While the merchandise export target
will not be easily attained, it is, nevertheless, feasible provided that
the essential imports reach exporters. The aim of the EDF is to assist in
this process. The assumption on invisibles is conservative, but prudent
given the past volatility of these flows. While Yugoslavia's liquidity
position is likely to remain extremely tight in 1983, on balance the
external resources being made available to the economy provide sufficient
room for Yugoslavia to begin implementing its medium-term adjustment
program effectively. The risk that Yugoslavia will not fully implement
this program is not considered particularly significant. However, given
the federal structure of Yugoslavia and the necessity to get approval of a
large number of parties, implementation of the adjustment program may be
slowed down. Nevertheless, the work of the Stabilization Commission has
created a climate of support for the Government's adjustment strategy at
all levels of decisionmaking. The consensual nature of decision making,
while slow, leads to widespread commitment once decisions are made. There
is a serious commitment in the Yugoslav Government to implement gradually
over time a process of policy reform that will permit efficient use of the
more limited investment resources presently available compared to the past.
D. Loan Amount
74.      The proposed loan of $275 million (including capitalized front end
fee) represents about 53% of the Bank's lending program for Yugoslavia this
fiscal year and appears appropriate in view of the breadth and quality of
the SAL program and the country's immediate and urgent need for quick
disbursing funds. Moreover, in view of the substantial international
financial package of nearly $6.5 billion that has been put together (see
para. 15), the proposed loan represents a relatively modest, though
crucial, Bank contribution.
E. The Borrower
75.      The Government, with the concurrence of the YBA, has designated
Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB), the largest banking group in Yugoslavia,
as the borrower of the proposed loan. The Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia would guarantee the loan. UBB is an associated bank comprising
20 basic banks in the Socialist Republic or Serbia representing about 4,300
working organizations with over 10,000 BOALs. All 20 member banks have
mutual unlimited subsidiary liability for UBB's obligations. UBB performs
a wide range of services, mainly in the field of foreign borrowing and
exchange transactions and project financing. It is the borrower under the
Serbia Regional Development Project (President's Report No. P-3477-YU,
dated March 10, 1983) which has been approved by the Executive Directors on
June 9, 1983.



- 41 -
F. Monitoring
76.      The SAL will be disbursed in two tranches of $175 million and $100
million respectively. The first tranche would be available upon loan
effectiveness. The second tranche would begin disbursing subject to the
Bank being satisfied, after an exchange of views with the Government to
take place about October 1983, with the progress made in the execution of
the Government's adjustment program, including, inter alia, the following
specific actions;
(i) submission to the Bank of a first semi-annual report on past
investment expenditures (para. 24);
(ii) definition of a program of priority investment projects in the
energy sector for the period 1983-85, required to achieve
planned targets (para. 24);
(iii) conclusion of a Social Compact on the Criteria for, and
Evaluation of, the Socio-economic Justification of Proposed
Investments (para. 26);
(iv) adequacy of progress in finalizing (a) the revised 1981-85 five
year development plan, including a definition of sectoral and
subsectoral priorities (para. 24), and (b) the improvement of
financial planning procedures in commercial banks (para. 30);
5v) adequacy of progress in monetary the operation of the system on
foreign exchange allocation and in the formulation of a program
aiming at an increase of foreign exchange mobility (para 34);
and
(vi) adequacy of progress in the carrying out of energy conservation
studies for enterprises which have been selected in
consultation with the Bank (para. 57) (Schedule to the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
77.      The review of implementation of the structural adjustment program
will, of course, include all other aspects of the program. In this
context, the Government agreed that it will regularly exchange views with
the Bank on progress achieved under SAL; as part of these exchanges the
Government will furnish to the Bank information on the progress achieved in
carrying out the program for structural adjustment program (Section 3.03 of
the draft Guarantee Agreement). Finally, the preparation of a second SAL
would require extensive discussions with the Government, and would be based
on the successful implementation of the program specified under this SAL.
G. Export Development Fund, Loan Administration
78.      An Export Development Fund (EDF), located within UBB, will be
established to promote the development of Yugoslav exports. The



- 42 -
establishment of EDF would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01(b) of draft Loan Agreement). The institutional setting,
policies and procedures of the EDF have been agreed with the Government and
UBB (see Annex V and Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). The EDF is
to be a revolving foreign exchange fund for the purpose of providing
foreign exchange to meet the recurrent direct and indirect import
requirements (for raw materials, intermediate goods and spare parts and
components for elegible exporters of turn-key industrial projects, civil
works, ships and capital goods whose exports are covered by export credits
refinanced by YBIEC). UBB would onlend the loan proceeds to eligible
exporters on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Criteria for
determining eligibility for use of EDF resources are outlined in Annex V.
EDF will be administered by UBB which agreed to establish a separate
organizational unit with staff in numbers and experience satisfactory to
the Bank. Approvals of EDF loans would be made by a Credit committee
composed of five members: one representing UBB, and two each representing
the Federal Chamber of Economy and YBA. Sub-borrowers will apply to EDF
through their own authorized bank (basic or associated bank, as the case
may be) which will make a preliminary analysis of the application and
transmit it to the UBB unit (through YBIEC in the case of exports covered
by YBIEC export credit refinancing) with its recommendation. Sub-loans
will be guaranteed by the authorized banks of the sub-borrowers. The UBB
unit will review applications particularly with respect to the
creditworthiness and financial standing of the applicant, justification and
commercial viability of its export plans/quality of export orders,
technical and managerial capability to achieve export targets, and
justification of import needs and production cycle. Sub-loan applications
shall be reviewed by the sub-borrowers' authorized banks and by the UBB
unit or YBIEC will be carried out within a period of no more than 5 working
days each. Sub-loans will be formally approved, or rejected, by the credit
committee of the EDF, based on the recommendations of the unit or YBIEC.
The UBB unit will administer sub-loan disbursements and repayments, the
Bank loan disbursements and servicing and will be responsible for regular
progress reports to the Bank and audit of EDF by the Social Accounting
Service (SDK) or auditors acceptable to the Bank. Sub-loan disbursements
will be made directly to foreign suppliers by UBB based on appropriate
supporting documentation.
79.      Sub-loan maturities will normally reflect the production cycle and
the period for receiving actual export revenues. They will not exceed six
months for exports of consumer goods and intermediate products, 12 months
for exports of capital goods, and 18 months for exports refinanced by YBIEC
except as provided under para. 80 below. Sub-loans will carry interest at
the six months dollar LIBOR in effect on the day of the sub-loan
commitment, plus a spread of 22 for the EDF to cover its risk of losses,
both to be paid in foreign exchange, plus a spread of 1I for the
intermediaries (to be allocated between UBB, the authorized bank of the
sub-borrower and YBIEC, as the case may be), and an annual guarantee
commission to the authorized bank of the sub-borrower of about 0.4% of the



- 43 -
sub-loan amount, both to be paid in Dinars. In case the sub-loan interest
rate including the 2% spread to the EDF and the 1% spread to the
intermediairies would be lower than the applicable Bank rate on the day of
the sub-loan commitment, the spread to the EDF shall be increased to
equalize the sub-loan interest rate with the applicable Bank rate.
80.      In accordance with the stated objective of the Government, a
special feature of the proposed EDF will be its capacity to grow and,
possibly, to become over time the nucleus of a foreign exchange market
which would greatly facilitate imports of Yugoslav industry in the long
run. In order to ensure proper repayment of the Bank loan out of EDF
without, however, depleting the EDF and maintain its growth in volume over
time, the EDF procedures will have a built-in system of incentives for
beneficiaries of sub-loans to sell, on a voluntary basis, a small portion
of their foreign exchange earnings to the EDF, against domestic currency,
over and above their sub-loan repayment.  The system of incentives will
consist of longer sub-loan maturities and larger size of sub-loans and
maximum exposure. On the basis of present interest rate levels and average
sub-loan maturities the sale of an average of 7% of sub-loans in foreign
exchange earnings to the EDF by beneficiaries together with an interest
spread of 2% for the EDF would be sufficient to increase the volume of the
EDF by more than 5% a year, after deduction of the Bank loan servicing
obligations. The domestic currency equivalent to the purchase of foreign
exchange by the EDF will be provided out of Dinar borrowings made by the
EDF. After consultation with the Bank, UBB will establish no later than
December 31, 1985 or such other date as the Bank may agree, a mechanism
whereby voluntary Dinar long-term deposits will be made to the EDF by
sub-borrowers through their authorized banks.
H. Categories of Goods to be Financed
81.      All goods imported into Yugoslavia from Bank member countries
required by eligible exporters (see Annex V, Section C), except goods in a
few categories which are specifically excluded, would be eligible for
financing under the loan. The excluded categories involve goods intended
for military or paramilitary use, or goods for luxury consumption, or for
petroleum products, or for food stuffs. A list of ineligible imports is
given in the Annex to Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement. Loan
proceeds would represent less than 10% of the anticipated imports in the
eligible categories, making rapid disbursement possible.
I. Counterpart Funds
82.      As sub-borrowers will borrow from and repay the EDF in foreign
exchange, no local counterpart funds will be generated that could be used
to meet local cost requirements of high priority investment projects.
however, in order to further boost exports, the Government would use the
"scommodity credits", which are being made available by export credit
agencies of 15 foreign governments under the international assistance



- 44 -
package (see para. 15) to create seven revolving funds for exporters in the
seven largest Yugoslav business banks. These credits, with maturities
ranging from three to six years will finance imports of raw materials and
spare parts for industrial exporters. Thus, the aim to support
Yugoslavia's export drive through the proceeds of SAL is duplicated by
other components of the international assistance package.
J. Procurement and Disbursement
83.      Contracts for the procurement of goods up to $2 million will be
made in accordance with standard practices of the purchasers, which are
acceptable to the Bank. Contracts amounting to more than $2 million each
will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
84.      Procurement and disbursements for the proposed loan have been
designed to ensure rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The proposed loan will
be disbursed at the rate of 1002 tf foreign expenditures of directly
imported items through reimbursement to the Borrower. Expenditures under
contracts related to export orders made after April 1, 1983, for which
sub-loans out of the EDF have been granted, will be eligible for
retroactive financing. In order to ensure that UBB will have ready access
to foreign exchange, especially during the start up phase of EDF, a Special
Account would be established within UBB to which the Bank would make an
initial revolving deposit of up to $30 million. The establishment of the
Special Account would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(a)
of draft Loan Agreement). The Special Account would be replenisbed as soon
as appropriate upon request of UBB.
85.      The first tranche of the loan is expected to be disbursed by
December 1983, and the second tranche within 6 months after the conditions
of tranche release (see para. 78 above) have been fulfilled (Schedule 1,
para. 4 to draft Loan Agreement and the Schedule to the draft Guarantee
Agreement). Disbursement of the entire loan is expected to be completed by
June 30, 1984
PART IV - OTRER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
AND RELATIONSHIP TO PROPOSED LOAN
86.      Yugoslavia first borrowed from the Bank in 1949 ($2.7 million for
timber production equipment) and, as of March 31, 1983, had received 76
loans, totalling (net of cancellations) $3,214 million. As of that date,
$898.84 million remained undisbursed on effective loans. Annex II contains
a suanry statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as well as the status
of Bank projects under implementation.
87.      The sectoral distribution of Bank lending has been as follows:
approximately 35% ($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the
transportation sector--12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a



- 45 -
natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project.
historically, Bank lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in
addition to the transportation loans, five power loans, one
telecommunications loan, three water supply and sewerage and three
multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly focussed on
the agriculture sector for which thirteen operations totalling $772 million
(about $22X of the total) have been made. Twenty-one loans amounting to
$475 million (about 13% of the total) have also been made for industry.
Two loans have been made for tourism and the first Bank loan for air
pollution control was approved in 1976. In addition, IFC has made fifteen
investments in Yugoslavia totalling about $302 million.
88.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to: (i) increase exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
investment resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets;
and (iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives, but the basic thrust of the
Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues to be toward the development of
the LDR. Underpinning this orientation are economic surveys of the four
LDRs undertaken by the Bank, intensified Bank assistance in project
formulation, and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
89.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981 largely due to a shortage of local funds arising from financial
constraints. Following implementation reviews of the whole loan portfolio
with most Borrowers during 1981, performance has markedly improved in
1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares most
favorably with Bank-wide averages and with most other countries of a
similar per capita income.
90.      The proposed content of the first structural adjustment loan
concentrates on broad macroeconomic policy issues which are difficult to
address through project lending. The SAL will therefore play a
complementary role to our existing lending program. At the same time the
SAL's objective of strengthening the overall policy environment will help
implementation of both our ongoing and proposed future project operations
in Yugoslavia. The Bank's future lending program has been refocused to
support the Government's investment priorities in export oriented
activities, energy and agriculture. Thus, while the first SAL contains
some specific policy proposals in industry, energy and agriculture, these
measures are principally intended to reinforce our ongoing sector policy
dialogue particularly on issues of investment coordination and pricing.
However, since these policy changes are likely to imply further
restructuring in specific economic sectors, the Government and the Bank may
- based on the studies proposed in energy, industry and agriculture - want
to sharpen the sectoral focus of a second SAL.



- 46 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
91.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Udruzena Beogradska
Banka, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
92.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan
(Section 6.01 of draft Loan Agreement) are the establishment of EDF and the
Special Account. The disbursement of the second tranche of the loan shall
be subject to the Bank being satisfied with the progress being made in the
execution of the Government's adjustment program and specific actions taken
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4, to draft Loan Agreement and the Schedule to the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
93.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
94.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 2, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 4 7-~                                          ANNEX I
IUosLAVIA - ue . uimscs  414 low                          Page  1 of  6
IIJOGELAVXA *0.SIn cu095 ucm IZ                      ImRAW       oh
MUST incus,               D                       "lW
ACICULTIUL    142.4                 1960  b   1,70 lb WuNAT /                3on
ow  rin CAPuI                        30) 350.0  140.0   260.0                 2323.9                10281.2
KUNRG  CONSUIUlON Prr CPITA
(U      S oF COIL . qUIVALT)        22.1     1604.5   2414.3                2107.4                 7277.7
POPUlATION ASD VlTAL STATITCS
POPtLAT1NM, NM-EAR (kTNAUs )   13402.0    20571.0  2 23.0
URAN POPIIUATION (PERCENT Of TOAL)   27.9      34.8     42.3                  47.9                   73.0
POPULATION PkWOICTIOMS
POPUTION IN lEAR 2000 (NLLIONS)                       2S.S
ATIOIT POPUATION (NILIOIM)                            28.3
lEA  STATIONAIT POPULATIN ZS SEACUR                  2055
POPMLATIHON MI  !
MR SQ. u.                         71.9       79.6    8U.5                  83.3                   138.6
P  SQ. NM. AICULTIRAL LIS        124.2      139.6    155.5                 153.4                  509.7
POPUATION A5 SWRUCTURZ (P3333)
0-14 US.                          30.3       27.4     24.6                  31.1                   22.7
15-4 IRS.                          63.2       64.5     66.5                  41.2                   65.7
65 Us. AN ABOW                      6.3        7.8      3.9                   7.7                   11.6
OPauTION  aOM RA7s (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.2        1.0      0.9                   1.6                    0.8
SEAR                               3.6        3.2      2.9                   3.5                    1.4
CUM uU  1A13 (M  TGOIA)             23.5       19.0     17.0                  23.6                   14.5
0115  AlE7I RAZ (R TWSAD)           10.0        9.0      9.0                  9.2                     9.3
GROSS RZPWUCTIU RATE                 1.4        1.3      1.1                   1.4                    0.9
FAMIL PLAMUIMG
AC31155. ANNOAL CUOSAIS)
1533. (P3103W (IV NARIIIR  UOMI)    ..       50
FMOOD l13 UWTIrnM
INDEZ of POW PROffUTIoN
PU CAPITA (1969-71.10)            35.0.      93.     117.0                 114.0                  111.1
PE CPITAL SUPPLY or
cAou_S (1303 oP.
OVIzSUIs)                    128.1      130.0    135.5/c               125.1                  130.3
P3OTINSc (GSANS 13OLT)            95.5       93.3    100.91                 92.7                   97.1
Ol URIS ANIMAL AID PULSE        28.6       31.7     39.2ic                35.9                   61.3
CSIO (AGZS 1-4) MLT£XrT RZ          11.2        4.3      2.0                  9.2                     0.5
RIALYN
iirr KCTAEnC AT  1M  (WARS)         63.2       66.7     70.5                 .67.6                   73.8
IWAST ION?ALIT RAW CPM
TEONSAIS)                           32.0       53.1     32.5                  65.1                   11.3
ACCES TO sZn MASE (13RC.5T OP
IOPU1ATlOEf)
TOTAL                               ..       33.6
1AN                               u.4        62.0
nL                                  ..       12.3
ACSSS TO rZCY  DISPOSAL (
Or POPMATION)
TOrAL                               ..         ..
U.BAN                               ..         ..
MDW.                                ..         ..       .                     ..
POPMATION  sP5rS CXAN             1616.2     1000.1    762.4/c              1105.4                  620.7
POPULATION  R MIRC PErSoN          632.4/d    406.4    361.9/                634.4                  246.9
POPULATION P33 POPTL RE
TOTAL                            135.5/i   177.1    155.8/                 234.8                 1U22.0
URBAN                             P1.4/      95.7    IOL.7/e               192.0                  140.6
RRAL                            1033.e.G    1 603.9   1035.34.                      
AULISIU>  UK    ITAL m..                       17.3   U8.2/J                 20.0                    17.7
iWmz. urn OlP EousOLD
TomL                               4.0        3.8      3.1/..
IuI                                3.3        3.2      3.3..
SUR,                               4.4        4.3      4.1re
AVERAGE 3UMBER OP P13300S PE MO
TOTAL                              1.6        1.4
OulBu                              1.7        1.3
URL                                1.5        1.5
ACBSS 70 UZCUI.-I (Pr253
eir rMUI)
7OTAL                             54.5       67.9       ..
URBN                              97         98.4       ..                    ..                     ..
ma&.                              36.1       80.1



-48-                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
E!MCI"I!1"   N                                       U
Im0         1970    I ZTzmnA                 rims03            XhIS3! scowIls
WAR EsMOU   "CTice
ILWAD Is    TOTAL X111.0                      L01.0     *9.0                   102.4                     101.7
HALx-               113.0       108.0       09.0                  107.1                     103.3
FnW                 103.0       103.0      33.0                      .0                    103.6
e603ui  TOTAL                     53.0         6.0       u.0                    60.2                      U.4
MALS                 63.         73.0       66.0                  "6.4                       6.4
mmiix               53.0         56.0      76.0                    54.0                     64.2
10OC4DL, KIOL. (Z 01 EcNART)   .*                2.4       20.5                   31.6                      16.2
IPZLu-URACE RATIO
Panay                             33..e        27.1      24.3                   25-.                      20.3
UCOmay                            13.0         22.4      11.3                    3.2                      16.1
fLU? 1.130 1A13 (lUCUr)              77.0        63.5        .0q/f       n.9                                  .
POPULATI                           3.0        35.4       U.S/e                  51.0                     334.4
lIMO UCZ1iYU In 1OU13D -
POP1LATON                         64.3       145.3    203.3                    137.2                    1021.7
S? UCZIV3U  NI  10133
101ULAZ3                           1.4        88.3      13.2                   13.7                      403.6
V31 1U (DILT    Q 133*1
2surIM) CZOflAUO 33M
U*-i   POILAUN                    70.3       83.3      103.1                   112.3                    331.2
-DEW A AUL ATUMNDAZ PR CAPITL 7.0                 4.3       3.3                    4.0                       3.6
WV3r1.7 IL  OI (TWUSAM)    8302.0              U3.7       422.2&.                            
3AWZ C1S1)                        33.0         33.       36.0-                  36.6                      36.0
DIum Su  clpn    )              63.0        31.0      23.0                    36.7                      6.2
23DSI3  (ECINT)                  13.0        23.0       32.0                   25.9                      37.6
1ANTCIPATION am1 (PCER=)
TOL                                  43.1        43.4    . 42.2                    44.5                     43.4
NMIL     .                          60.0         56.6      34.5                   36.3                      51.9
pYuW                                30.9         30.6      30.0                   32.6                      32.4
eoIC IUESNCT RATIO                     0.6          0.3       0.3                    0.9                       0.8
303DUSTRINUTION
mCl or MAsI   =c
RECEIVD IT
I12SS 5 PSICDIT a MNOSIOLDS   16.4/h           U.1:      13.1.                            
HIGHEST  20  QZIT oF 3 U S   41.37i           41.47    38.7                       ..                      43.0
LSS  20 PIEc? 0f EIIDu              6.          6.671     6.6                      .                       5.3
ZMlK3T 40 PIECZNT C1 10USUNf   19.             16.4z     13.7                      .                      16.3
POYZY TARGET GDPS
ZSTD ED ABSOLUIL 1D1.! SU
ULL  (M  PE  CAPITA)
033*3                                ..   .      ..        .                       ..
NU.                                  ..          .....
UT3MATKD RELATIV ?VZ ivz 20
hSDL (U P          JOL CAPITA)
POWIT  ZMONS 11 99  (Pzt
mill..                                  ..        .                       .@
NUL                                 ..           ..     330.0                  406..
t DCt LL T
- .. Ult ailah.
* Ubt qla.
/a   The grea  averagee  for cb hladcater are poptat1ou-e1abted arltlMtc seem.  Cqrrae of eoutrles
_m     the lndlcAton depends an asUablUlty of daa and In  et umifero.
/b   Unless oeherl   oeted, data for 1960 refer to an  yew   aetwen 1939 ad 1961; for 1970. betme  1969
_od 19n; en  for Meet 3acentUc"., betim  1976 and 1360.
,_   19n; /d 1962; /, 1976; /f 1975; /Il In1dug ut reate ehe   abroad;  /e 196; 3,    1961.
Iby. 1362



-49-                                                          ANNEX I
ew NW= walcma           ~Page 3 of 6
0310311710300*. doora ov  8           t   Gamma31. og.o4.410.     MM181*0    .Wh910 t01CVPM  Ta11101W, St ob0 I t.1- . oft" rae b"an Pt . 11 o.3.r-.
gb.1S.al  t.Ep-  do.1b.34e  .8a, d CM   0.101t   mi.. Clsm envra .1I0  '33101 by dt1 alt1... 310.33 soCLaco ...             -    .deam
zbw1.10go.%. umd. ...  1  31       ams"o&% wosa,ta"..1  * 33 d1 t11y actoU) .  g., 31033.igb 00an barroo  _Wrm..               I   I
.r lb  ."ab.rr   3,. -.   . C     0* 133-a,3% 0*1m 1.40.01  1101.-    0* 1030  , 1   331110      ti.2 134  I1. 43300A. %- lb. 0010111  1 
macI.    ."318013. tomt1. ~1 Lb.   .c2.o a2. d.arng    .g.--o, 8.., 10p411.1.1I~ 1~   113..nt .mi.w. m. sacb S.33.1o S" A..3 .  mIb  mama
u           mffr_-m-wr __mlad_   CLao                        mebmaan6.1..)       F.r.W01h 0 *q..t man - 1001 .it.I .. ma r.3  -f  ..gI-     (1..
101.1  mar .  . .18.1 m t. camary arm aarmac s.mama30   3941."3    a.1124.441  101.311.                                           t 1butl14
1     - 1     p33o  mb. Cma 11111.1  ara4m0 -a baI.a 1.13.3  1   a.._      133        L==0*     .o(.1M.                ma 0*iosa o.303inl:  .1.8 
b133 2.3. ama v6pmat1.3. artabl11om 9r..UIng 3.11013.1p 131
cip PER         cowP 10113311 .3101133  1.13 raffi    1 311.r33. Pastas801 c33333 Sam31 233134*. SW"l 13.Itol. amarma. 1aw1". 13.11
Crime.417 1W c--3l-o arbad an 33114 Onm aLl., E191340 b..2.: 1660.                 an01   gm c3411.1.003.33  P-momily .1.81   by *, phyft111. (bol by.
WM1. ma i j     c ,                                                                a11c1 03.1"am. 0013. sa4.12.. Itt.) 3311.8.1 .d 3l131,
a.u.. ma v S&P . Imaz.a -W at smalc.1 toc11211.. VWI ofte1.,
an tien m  3  e-ao.n      0*1 W..  md     .8 mon,  ts1 antors (loo                an1-11.1d.   maa W3o3   01.,h.pd.I.3320    31.1315.3s 13311,..
0* 1111)  3.0*10.0. ..1.J -    o ..-an 19..  .1..n cmm    mama.'00.S   IV".        ma t.1  3.3t.1.  hapsa  mrs, 133311.3 mad 01.1w  ma  t..
a....      wa110. 1 33.3..14 (..                                                                                 ... e3say14L. lug.1..1100.  a 9otoo
owa   -...110. 160. 1910. mad lag 1.1,-                                          0* barman.14 £.t 33331.0111 pmp
3.0.1.11.- T-l131110.                                                            0*1.00 mamb, ad 3..-.m p, .3  -1... -b. ma  -1o    - amor"p
06011.3ot   1000- O-C-  P.3.&.11- p-3.311. 33 l.ma - ISM                   P.1 . p.       .-Ps..1            .ma.01tl  1..31
by. p010   mawop ma -   m6asu*1  .....U, ma ratsuzloy 13360.           analLusm. 30333311-17, 33.-U1.63.t1.i.0.p.33           lvct.3    mad
Aftog 118.      p 33 b1311 101c.*33.g b cmnt7'. 5,331  10*.3.121111    10.01.  -Rs.)-tara;. .33.0. ma 3.1 -
1-..._ .34 801. lit. amata. mabilau or T3 7.1 103. U. 00-                         1 3          0*10   10 1111.  0ltwI. 6030000 ma 1W0
mar010 ltarTlIlty  m.31.1. 13.- 111.. %-S. .-Ug d-o0, 1.                       me 1.101. arban. ma" WM"0. 10110333313.
8..gUlqr c-df 03340 ft. 10-1W .. map. v" a Pilo&g ywf-..
ma l, cl-Cry S10. Cm   -1mjd - aff KU-. -.40*1b.4 lm30114..tL 1311..r
2101.43.0.11*- 13.P meat117  .payl.100 coms S0. a 3133b 0101-                    -11.31  mcha0  - 3013. .31, ma 1-.0    - 1300 3... 33 3 1.01
malms, .. Lam. Va.0 2.          only. 0I altar 1.3rak, 301.0 1113313             Palomar tchml-ga D0.1.10*.   -ay.3117loIo.4  k120*  opal 4.11
U1      .323.  Z1 .31  ".117.  31 ra     tIl -csom ra .. % 0103                  vamor l.C .111  1.oo l .*t.o. I-Bce 1   P-,    *--LI-: Cm3
.Mma   a    . ma . b2    333 c.1 1.10cL.d  1.11111t7ca .10Ch. P1331c33          adoca3, -3P338   arn13301. -31  mabo- Ch. ffl~.W  33... ..s
o.  10001 20.04.t.10,*10cUn0 IMLtyg.-  plrm                                      _dT-- 1.0303   I1 80  Canal3 01 C-O.O  p113. 10333
700      _vl.   13.. 1.11.  1. ...13  - 7     -  Aaosl..lry p.p...tI.            33.1.34. smrtl. .-133103. ma, 1.010 1.31   10331.l11.3, 0*333313
010 M"1 mud'.13a                                                                 .011  .1 UZ M317 p.- ad opz:  CI0oomoW  arm 6303117,
33.-I201.     CrIy                                                                   03310.6.
Mq   -  W3l.y-3 300P1.1Z.. PC1 *-o 111.0t.. (1M331133..) .8              lo.totIi .W;-11.  fotllm 01.r m.   - 3311c01 3St1.11
F. ..  . .331.11.  I1." - 8.3.0.4 .  6   lot .w1.l I.d                        m1y ar 303010.3. at -.m.."Y 10331.1103
.31; 60.29 ma 191M  v.c.                                                701-t.013 1331" - 3100t,. ma .. 9.a.  - 01I.1 t.6ma,  p1md20   .
0*0131..a-  1133313(33330.  - 0114133 40-14 103303.   b133M-m4n W1-          PIX-, ma W137 9.030. 4103b404           b 10*3.8 Z0-*333 S. Sb.
va1.31.. ma o.tCt.1 (as g.... ma 0) 33Pmant"an a ..141331 mo..                  1011003-Ama1. &01-
132..; 1660. 191  .-ma 116 4.3.-                                               L*3  1011..1.10..0)   9.3,0 *1t*, 13313, - 3004 ma .121.
vmmanr.   Cr- 3131 0*tar.300) - c01.1 - A-"1 33031 733  13004'0031016 03 .31.1 .1.13 33p.1t0 ma Id Xs V                                  * 0661.
3Wpp.0l 0 162U040. 11W-10. ma 197040
33.112- C-.1% 301. 10.3.031 - -b-. - Am-I. a3.o3b raoo .1 .11.  w-             C
2011. - 333190-60. 1160-10. ma 1610-40.                                        3000000    ot, (0  Ch--& 10.01.1100  - TP00000W 1010, 1133   taC
8.*0.1300  .. t-o.3) - A.1 11 11- 1d11. P.-                -C..o   o1.1-7.0     000 000110 1003 10* 01i1p. v-     31.&.3 0*01031.., 1.3 mad
pap101100: 166. 1310. 0* 1IND 4.30.                                              01111007-11.l-
Ct01.m oaaa 3.(01 0h*  -              dmb01. p.1 313mar    a P8 37-03            30410 301..33 (.-   f  ..               - 01U 1,90at.0   I- t...Cad1.3 .41
p.00.11.  160.110.ma12  ob                                                       6      m01.n M. om-.1 33111VW t0*0* 013.0p02.30: -.1.1. .-
cam3 30.10   _o03    - a-ag -0*    or 4.4gh113100ana .112 1.01 J.                  111.00.  -1.11,. S3      l. caarma,   1 10080r vrm  glarmal.. .8 1.11
13100.331 71.401*1l3 p.11.4 tf an. .pmriaamm,Pamora .g.-.p.111    80c-            ma, mmiS. 011.11:ma 101.-83      yama70, a07,   13t 1. 33.p.110,.0c
311117 mot.. .-.011, 1 1,-.T_ a-1p 00a13  1 1660. 1970. ma 193.                        - 10WI... obolI.b.  1001
70011 1.3300    c1.3101.,. 1o..ol Odtb...*) - A_- -m1 a ad*1. .e..ma3 rn..(. 1033  3.033)-1  031 1. 11.00.1c 1.
.8M   int1o   i) -              m.e0160                 10 -3.3110  ma A. y3o% .10.1.3333.1- *8 TV   O         2. U-ol.
.2 chudbrar"s   (1p,  -0  V-01) ". mom bIrtb1.1W01  ...c..,t.          !=          ~.circ.1011. - . Cm- 9..0  00.01d .   S-   Cm.. ...iw1
.11 am13104       S. 300030, manS,3.                                             c63c001.1mu  ota 0330300 0003000. 1.13004   0 5,loako
3.11 n13 1..330131133311  13 s.11413     'al0  -     it 21 2  40
-         13ZAID                                                                     10 b. 4011ye It U1 otoo M.3   0  1*3
100.01Cs .1   II.1  1u1*1 o13 .C"11. 0* 10.1013 33l31Cm 30.1. *018.. ma
L.0113. *.lmd 30 p704010  C111.mazzh.:Cm 11.40. 1910. m      4A.11. .            an   -bi. .. 0*n). C-3    330   .1. 311
3.1 4.p.  0311310031. 1031100    X9.1-1t 31*10.  2011  1.304"              WEr-.bc-      .  23- 0 C=    ma 1k2 ._&.I.. c-P        . attn
ar3310. m4 anada3. 2. 0*016. 301 ..9pp11.  m.010.  mal road. mand..              V.030 (00310.) - 0*1". 233w 1F300  3011W030 .1112  233..mb  10.c..
a."1.  00r.4esa   byEm  p133001o3 0* 2.....ica  -ft1.11b11.3  306.13.-              1      W131  331q .9 cm"0 lob-.  Cm .0*. lugt. 190 0113 ma.
lIly -a 13.1t1, 1.014.-133 .03r13...1 1*lo   14  -olape*. man                       011. (" .-1.) - bLmor 1.1  2. as0103. 11333r1c10.. ma-fac113
ha.o.1314 1001; 13U-314. 1910 mas 1977 di.e.                                       1940. 1910 ma 1630 1o.30
331 1.3. mauPIT8 .71.1.(g        p  4.,) .  ...-.  0131                           31153*33 Pertain1) - 10103. 01c.. ma  -.'- p33111I330*.r
33 .337.1  0    _0 0.  --&U17.1"m"     2 4011004M0 33033  30.011317  00001  1.0e 301 ml." I. 2.. pa.34   0.-   3*.,l 8.1.1p-.-0
at~. . 40       .8mr   treto 31.1.0 m- 1.7. ma 30 prmm of .31 .0            16W0. 210. ma 1660 4.t3.. oo 113 a.n 1.04d 00 3*0' PaC31C13330- 1"C
30203P 3001a.1. 01 33111 210 grm  b13014. 0*011 313103. 00or.0 134..             101332       __ 031.1.1 01 113 3330101101. and 2.33 1133   0*d. a
334.00.1.013133 cb- at 07151001 Pt.tot2 p.010. mad 2331033n,.1                   Imo.tIeml. 0m manfrm*e.0.1 .-o.3.o.
mal1331   OI po.*1 000  amain 101 t1. 314. F.33330    FA7 S 3 C0011  11114    kW3303              Intl.1. - 30110.8 pup1011.0 0Aw 12 - ma IS ma 
301.4 33_o 10100; 1911.3). 1010 and 1377 de".
Pot t.lt m,acaI. o03 ry 1. 011331 mat o.1   - Preoton   oy 3 7.18f."4 A.-
110* traw sastalm.0'n3a20.  grear. p.7 may; 1161.3). 19100*1If" dog.          1351U1
01)4 103 1-) 3031 301(7.110*0*)-.I 1..tb. v- t1.000  S.~t1. NU(loll 10 1001 and 114      01.04" 11111.
1r2.0 1330 4011.0  1van In8. tab1; 1In0. 1910 ma  1 101um..                      1001
ot1111n. 90ml       604..                                                     *331 13;1033310100101 1..14.b,o 101100.I M" 
4.10. 10 .8.3*01(.116  01 Zs    Imm1) - 3.t.. W%-0. mad  -al - som--WI12.011701..31. d1.3 Plotom ..tg.  so.-Imad 3.Onstwart so0me
C8 vpoW1  (1.1.2.L  1.Cmm and31  31 3000I1   100..0..81..4u1..
at103.  g13l  =ogl    03.I0   1. an .3101rm aO p.111                        W.medlesson of 0* agaor. VA=0 1,w.01 2. 4110* 813 110 Treat
star0do1m4.0             v."14W0r   0310 Vat3o., 13ws.0  POI 007 be        10.01 .1b 013..mm for Umar emmy. - 11133  000* mo00t.
parmaws   n    Wo."mild 131 113  as 13in11. W1 1-sos or do ft w 0*11314                                           wo    n mr"mu  r  mrao
AD1 "0o3p- a36.3* 1L.0133.310*. pof an 0 lay 10 1.1331.3an
0*3.   31*  warmo  (0301. ad  =1.    - 131.. 000. gas D"&l
lom. 30332. Utt.. 00100. and TW10) 03.04 SY 001131 433P.0. 00
lb.mazmLau ama               -WUem&. u    asm    01  m
U   p5aq    -133.2.0133       a""1 by 70*.     of .01.5.313,0                                                      SW0*  m   I30303630
was ad*061  *130003011IW.                                                                             3031.*1.10mapiw10   33so-
a                       30.11040101Ip               013a02.                                                             3p  3



- 50-
AmIn I
Page 4 of 
PcMUaiaa  22.3 mille (id1361)
GIW Far Capita: =52.790 (19I4)
nOU.A9X  - icMC DDWC82
Amma_ Gruth gate-s CZ)
(millie. 114 at                                   (at ceaeteat 1972 pnries)
ZUdicatar               crract pria)                               Actual                       c_                    r td
_190 ei       1975    1974    1W?7   l9ts    1979    1960    1981    192 -  193    19            1985    1990
Cream demmaics pmodct ai     43.232          0.9     5.2      8.4     8.5     4.2     2.2      2.2    -1.0    -1.7     2.0     2.7      4.3
A8ricatar          -          514         -2.4      4.4     5.7     5.4     5.4     0.0      1.0     5.0     0.0     2.0     2.0      2.0
indutry                    25.501          7.4     4.1      9.5     9.3     8.5     3.6      1.4    -2.7    -2.0     3.0     4.0      6.0
services                   24.993          1.4      5.3     7.1    13.1    -2.0    -2.2      3.4    -1.0    -2.0     1.0      1.5     3.0
C _acmptia                   48.760         -3.3     0.0      9.8    13.0     3.2     0.4   -1.1    -0.7    -1.7       2.5     Z.4     3.9
Crean iauat_ut               23.218         10.1     3.6    17.4   -3.2    12.0   -3.2    -1.2    -6.0         0.0     3.0     3.2     4.0
luperta of GPs               1 4.053         1.1    10.4    -2.0      4.8     2.4    12.4     9.3   -5.7    -2.0       6.0     6.0     4.8
Imporct of  MS              1U.799          -1.3    -B.6    16.1      2.5     MG0   -9.7    -2.6   -10.8   -2.0        *.7     6.0     5.6
Cream  ntien" savinga        13.619         14.7    20.4      5.6   -3.1      3.4      5.8     -        -       -       -       -       -
deflatwr (1972 -100)        411         170     206     232     260     313      411        575     731     -       -       -       -
xcb~  re                       24.9        17.4    18.2    18.3    18.6    19.0    24.9       35.5    51.3    -        -       -       -
Sair. of GMi at market Price. CZ)                           Avearge Annual lacraaa  (2)
(at current prices) b/ _C cet     1972 
1960    19e70    975    1980       195                      960-70-
cram Doestic Product at    10.0   100.0    LO0.0   100.0    100.0    100.0                 5.9      6.5      5.7      0.5      4.2
Agricultur                22.5    16.1      13.8    12.3     13.1     11.8               3.3      2.9      2.4      2.0      2.0
ledudtzy                  42.2    37.4     4.3    41.4       41.4     44.7               6.3      8.3      7.0      0.3      5.9
sarwica.                  29.0   38.1      33.1    34.1      35.7    33.6                6.9      4.7      4.3      0.2      2.9
Conumption                  67.2    72.8    74.3    70.4       69.2     68.4                .5      4.9      54      -0.2      4.0
Crams iz.aatmt              36.5    32.3    33.5    30.5       29.0    29.0                4.7      5.5      5.3    -0.9       4.1
Uparts CUS                  13.9    16.5     20.2    27.7      29.3     33.0              10.2      4.7      5.7      1.5      4.1
irpos CGPS                  17.5    23.5     28.0    31.4     27.5    30.7                 9.3      6.7      2.5    -1.5       6.5
ROa meational awipsa          32.6   29.4    25.6    28.3       29.5     29.9                5.3      4.2      6.5       -        -
1960    1970     U195    10    1iil
ruIC Yuo
Tteal re_ue                 27.9   33.1       6.3    34.0      32.3
Total ezpatura              24.1    33.2     37.2    34.       31.6
8:rpUa C ) .r dificic C-)    3.3     0.1     -0.4     0.6      0.6
_oraiga ficiag               0.0     0.0    -0.4      0.0      0.0
1940-70 1970-75  1975.6  1980-85  1985-0
CEMLUPCAMOS
grc. raw CZ)                4.1     4.7      5.7     0.1      4.2
CW  par capite graut rt.     5.0     4.4      4.7    -0.8       3.3
1Cta                         5.4     4.4      5.4    35.3       7.0
leport *l-ticity             1.4     1.0      0.5    -3.0       1.5
a/ Ac markt pricaa; compents ara aapraaed at factor coat "inwill net a" up to tctal d  to a:cluieoe of noa iatirect tcm. and subsidies.
VI Projeectd Ye*r at ceeatmt 1972 prica..
tPA IC
Aprit 19. 1"3



- 51 -
Autr I
of 6
population: 22.3 itioa (mid,-1981)
GW par Capita: USS2.790 (1981)
-           L U-L78
---   t                         -_al Croth ltate (2)
mitlieu S  at                                      (at cosent 17n uric.)
Indicator               etrac t prize)                            Actual         -                         .o cted
(1W18)         1975     1976     1977     197u     1979      190     198    1982-1183   198    1985   1990
r Aa. exports          10*286           0.0     14.5    -5.3       1.0      1.6     11.0   11.7   -6.2   0.5    6.0    6.0   7.0
primary a1                  1.709         -3.1      16.6      3.9      1.5      2.0      2.5  -14.6    1.9   0.5    6.0    6.0   7.0
NI_f.etres hi               8.495          0.4      13.9    -8.8       0.8      1.5     13.8   19.0   -7i.  0.5    6.0    6.0   7.0
Narcbeaie Inpore             14.528         -2.8    -6.5       18.5      3.8     12.9   -10.5   -4.9  -10.0  -0.3    8.6    6.0   5.S
Fe"                           an         -60.9     45.8      4.3   -24.2       35.6    -2.3   -:.4  -13.1   0.0    5.0    6.0   4.5
patrolmen cJ                3.7&2         -5.0      10.1     12.0     11.6      7.3      6.2   -1.4  -16.2   3.0    5.0    6.0   7.0
Netbi_ry ed equipet         3.756          22.3    -8.8      17.8      7.1     15.4   -17.4  -15.6  -12.7  -5.4    9.4    6.0   6.0
Othro                       6.123        -11.9    -12.7      22.1      4.4      8.8    -7.0    0.0  -14.1   2.0    9.6    6.0   5.1
nun (1972 - 100)
*srt price index                31b         in      1iO       202      220      259      30e    314    336   354    38      4111-  550
Iupotr price index             352         14        89      216       226      281      337    362    349   363    38*    607   560
Taen  Of trae index             89.7        93.5     95.2     93.5      97.3     92.2    91.4   91.6   96.3  97.6   99.6  101.0  98.3
Cmpoeitioa of  lendioe TXad CZ)                               Avoca" Amal Iremse (Z)
-(at current prices) d/                                   (at caa 1972 prices)
_ 1960     N970     L975     19O      19t5     1990             1960-70  1970-35  1974-80 1980-8   1985-90
xPOwrt                              200.o0   1U0.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                8.1      5.7      5.1     2.5     6.8
7d_q7                              49.6     29.4     19.5     22.0     21.0      21.0                -      -1.3      6.0     2.7     6.S
_Sn_afctem bl                      50.4     70.6     80.5      78.0     79.      79.0                -       8.1   -  4.7     2.6     6.8
IxPoite                             100.0    110.0    100.0    10. 0    100.0    100.0                9.0      7.4      4.1   -1.6      6.5
Fed                                 9.1      7.2      5.5      7.2       8.5      8.0                -       5.0     14.9   -4.0      5.4
Petrolems cl                        5.4      4.8     12.3     23.6      8.7       8.6                -       8.2      7.2     1.3     6.1
1e-binery Zd eqaiz,-t              36.8     33.2     33.9      28.0     29.2     29.7                -       9.4      3.1    -3.6     6.9
Ot0e                               48.7     54.8    48.3      41.2      53.6     53.6                -       6.0      3.5   -0.7      6.5
Shar of Treef with            SOma of Trod with         :sare of Trade  ith Capital      Shar of Trde with
Ieatra Cerie  (2)                D        C_etrije (C)     swE1I_  Oil Ezportem (2)    Cetrally   u  a cn -oomian cz)
196S   1870    1975   1I1    196S   1970   17n   IS61  196    190   1975   161    1965   1970   197S   191
eDCZ or la*n
aPere               *0.1   53.3    36.0    31.0    17.4   13.6   16.8   18.3   o.4    0.7    2.1   11.8    42.1   3. .4    7.1   48.9
Prim-,            61.0   70.2    54.0     -        9.1    8.2    8.9    -      0.2    0.2    1.9    -       29.7   Zl.;   35.2    -
N      =n.facture  24.0   41.9    26.0    -       23.8   17.2   20.0    -      0.6    1.0    2.1    -       51.6   3.9   51.9    -
imports             55.3   66.1    59.1    50.1    16.0   12.7   13.7   15.3   0.1    0.1    0.6    9.1    28.6   21.1   24.6   30.7
ei sI  e0-4
W  sUrc S-8
ci SIC  3; includes Iubriceet. coal  d electricity.
;i  rjcted yes at co_tAt 1972 price.
Nay 24. 1983



-32-
APE I
|g/||>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                                                    _b or    r  D a
30c=wfl - &AIlS Or PAUfl. fl2CmL CAPIrAL Sm 33w
(m3e Million.)
pejacil  23.3 w1u   (111
zndacec.r                                                               Acto.olesca
1970      1975       3978       1927       397a       1979      lo    19o  1is t/               12 13                  185       19"
SiLAS OF P4WMg
Kgta@ goowds *   -  Semices                 3.037      *.DU       9.142     10.3"      32.069     34.276     10.300 30.007    39.*77       20.916     23.J58    2 ."6    4*.7m
of wich:  Itd_chis   f.e..                1.679 41073           4.493      5.19S      3.309     6.794      8.978 10.26    104.247       £1.019    12.615       14.374     26.723
'opsers of gooa nad _e-e                    3.38   S .01          8.J77     11.9"      13.352    17.927     20.392 20.954   20.340         20.924     73.780    263119    65.191
of nick:  ine _hnio  c.i.f.               2.374      7.697      7.361      9.739     10.439     14.019     15.06e 14.S3    13.336       13.397      15.397    17.291      12.513
Net tr f                                                              - _
Coster  _cesar hlate                          -348    -3.001         165    -1.366      -1.213    -3."I       -2.292  .467       463            32       -395       341 "
Pryer. 4330c eo.lo                              -          -          -          -          -                    -    _        _          _            _         _       _
Z lois  (stel                               19b        931      1.094      1.432      I."9       1.00.      2.410   a32       130         1.429        342       -269       834
atfaciol                                      i3        246        212        63        123        13         39  1.3       1.050         1.349     2.69       I.96         393
ftisss                                      u7        Mns         "a       1.371      1.26        a7 2*371   -S 3            420           -120    -2.0e6      -2.225       -37
Oter    t1                                     38        133S       319          S3       541      1.487       657    34Y      -679            97         10       1339       -G
fla~e_a roseie.                               114          S    -1.378        -131       452      I.U65   -n7    -238         1.012        -1.000    - 77          -390      -751
ZstsooottflBl noon  7i            _           276      1.02       2.30       3.013      2.63      2.495      3.273 2.487      1*675         2,675      3.112     2.2        6. 28
of flick: C.za (officil oolo. )              51         42         62         64                   7          78    73         78            78         78         7 
o     k                                1.0        2.0        3.5        3.0        3.3       1.7        1.9  I.3        130            1.5        1.6        I.*       1.8
CmL CAPTAL  o rJT
SOrs. di6ors*.MMA                             611      1.647      2.096      2.63s      2.500     2.433      4.156 2.770      2.064         4,.11      2.03      2.678      3.G6G
OUicia gems                                   -          -          -          ---
CooimmS  laes                                67        1s         13s 59                 29        13                           -             -         -          -          -
DeC                                         0         71         62         6          31        11         Zs      8         -                        -         -          _
wnl                                         -          -          -          -         -          -          -      -         -             -          -         -          -
is                                          _          -          -         -          _          _          -      -         _            _          _          _          _
OchDr                                     673         63         72         93        l          2          3      4
ass....crooiooel                            373      2.037      3.*62  7.30           2.671     2.423      4.134  z.7s5     2.04          4.114      I.059      2.678     3.62
Offaeil -.rc  croiOn                       39        203        2.3         75        74         G0         33  1.375     1.07S         1350        sit        341        *4D
23O                                        37        136        119       133        no         294        25    231        231           sS        577        338         aG
Other nItalaoI"                             -          -          -         -          8         34         36    1s          -             -         -          -          -
ti~                                       0497     1.60       3140      2.290      2.40'      2.067      3.757  1.09        "65       23200        7.000     2.000      3.000
!u3eel.v so poer crit (sen                   1-57)      (-23      (0-tD)    (-183)      (-106)    (-2          (-3003 (fl)    (-00)         (-2203     (-740    f(-123)    (-390)
gat.ool debt
Dec oncotamise sod
gjakeof 6/                              2.053      S.AW       7,In   * .9          11.117     13.a6     15.66  14.354     Mm           17.716     13.37I     18.107  U2.9U2
*ofLeitl -4                                        2.327      3.792      3.053      3.410     3.442      4.552 3.019      6.069         7 613    10.315      12.272    238.I
prince                                  1.1"       3.493      4.3*0      3.871      7.707     9.94      10.394 11138    10718.n  r    1D 09        8.02      s 837       -m
D-na_ermod dm                               968      2.971      2.325     4.435      3.713      3.17       2.S42  1.967    3.538          1.515      3.4 1     1.60         301
ok.e s       l
*ask o.ns_ py-                              303      1.441      1.440     1.395      u.m        2.12       2.41  2.490    3.907          6.39       4.38       3033       3.359
2.ee oet f128                                        n9         302       367        373        821        s93  1 757    1.893          n.710      1.941     20on       2.327
P_ *eca - _   iezt                           16.6       13.0       15.8       13.6      14.9       14.9       13.3  18.        19.3         21.0        13.5      18.9       12.2
Asoroe into-got race - ann L_i  (2)             7.1        3.1        7.1        7.4        7.7       3.0        3.6  12.7       11.9          11.3       12.9      12.9       14.0
Official                                      7.0        5.3        7_0        7.3        7.7       -          -      -         -             _         -          -          -
Ptince                                        7.5        7.5        8.6       9.3        5.7        9.5        -      -    _                 - _                   - _
:omg  atorn7y  r am  1_os  Cyose)              16.3       13.2       13.3       15.4       13.1       10.8      10.1  10.1       I1.2           7.4       10.2       10.3       9.0
Officiel                                     33.3       16.3       10.0       13.9       13.1       -          -
Priest                                       10.9       10.9        3.7        7.5       -          -          _      _         _            _          _          _          _
.ZlJs  noe,  es of NW t"iot (d                ,, se lass r.ec . net 0Of sezt-rM crjt od chos_-  AS biltr-l
- hedb..
c/ IclSIog gross Sorwigpo asst. of cin    a  hak..
Vasbosl herosio  rOpstt  ism th   iwac l b-laoce Of aeses*t is    ct esiato   with sote1 doct d8te.                                                zEL IC
-f Coe setsio  OcldeO messics w  iscoroo  on opert  d._it aromsi by rSholes.t.                                                                    april 39. 3933
Af tar-1. 1s             A        peoocs -   ws of VW r          .



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1983)
USS million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Dumber  Year            Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Forty Loans fully disbursed                                    1,339.46
916    1973   Naftagas                     Gts Pipeline         59.4      8.05
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda         WasAr Supply,
Sewerage & ister
Resources           20.0      0.22
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &      Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise         Sewerage             45.0     0.07
1360    1977   Management Organization      Multipurpose
"Netohija"                  Water                54.0    31.73
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka           Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries           26.0     2.60
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Agriculture
Industries          24.0     3.11
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in     Second Power
each Republic               Transmission         80.0    11.06
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banks           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0     7.74
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways             100.0     3.01
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina         Hydro Power           73.0    11.48
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Third Industrial
Credit              40.0     7.90
1612    1978   Privredua Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0     1.44



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)          Purpose            Bank Undisbursed
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0        3.90
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit              20.0        1.53
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation          82.0        0.71
1621    1978   Privredna Banka              Bosansks Krajina
Sarajevo                    Agriculture and
Agro-Industries     55.0       31.20
1678    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Beze-
govina and Macedonia       Roads                148.0       41.95
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka             Croatia Sava
Drainage            51.0       33.14
1768    1979   Port of Bar                  Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar              50.0       33.63
1769    1979   Railway Organization         Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                ilitation-
Railways            14.0        7.61
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka           Third Agricultural
Credit              86.0       56.11
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina      Roads                125.0       76.42
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka "ristina      Fifth Industrial
Credit             50.0      46.55
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit             30.0       11.14
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka           Fifth Industrial
Titograd                    Credit              20.0       19.31
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka              Fifth Industrial
Skopje                      Credit              10.0        2.80



-55 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)          Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1951    1980   Investbanka                  Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0       74.63
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways              34.0       26.22
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0       83.22
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Agriculture           80.0      67.04
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                     Kosovo Water Supply  41.0        29.22
2132    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial       33.0      32.51
Credit
2133    1982   Stopauska Banka Skopje       Sixth Industrial      33.0      32.51
Credit
2136    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture            35.0      34.48
2161 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6        34.60
2233 1/ 1983   Regional Work Organiza-      Tuzla Water Supply   30.0       30.00
tion KOZPRED               and Environment
Total (less cancellation)                             3,214.46    898.84
of which has been repaid                                597.21
Total now outstanding                                 2,617.25
Amount sold                            9.2
of which: Amount repaid               9.2
Total now held by Bank                                2,617.25
Total undisbursed                                                  898.84
11 Signed but not yet effective.



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                        Type of          Amount in US$ million
Year            Obligor                      Business          Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment             Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia         Corporation        -       2.0     2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                        Industry         12.4     0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     T4aribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry           9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                           Iadustry         16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                        Tires             12.5     2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira          Pulp and Paper   70.9      -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel    10.0      -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant      10.0     -      10.0
1975   RMX Zenica                           Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute       Food and Food
Brane/Unilever                     Processing        4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products        15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                         Hermetic
Compressors      7.0      -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                    Tourism           21.0     -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                        Machinery          18.7     -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial         Small-Scale
Banks                              Enterprises      30.3      -      30.3
1982   Igalo                                Physical
Medicine
Center           16.5    -       16.5
1982   Industrija za automobilaki          Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto)       & Accessories    11.3    -         11.3
Total Gross Commitments                              315.7    11.8   327.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                           173.5      5.2   178.7
Total commitments held by IFC                        142.2      6.6   148.8
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                         38.7      0.8    39.5



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1983)
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date; March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles,
organizational change, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and
the Bank eventually agreed to divide the loan into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Vojvodina
and Serbia are now under construction. The only outstanding major contract
still to be awarded before the current closing date concerns Butangas'
telecommunications and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
systems. Depending upon early contracting of the SCADA system a further and
final extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Severage and
lvater Resources:  US$20.0 Million Loan of June 14  1976; Effective
Date;  November 3, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982; (account
left open).
After some initial delays, the project is progressing
satisfactorily. hajor works still to be executed are the Vrutci dam and
water supply distribution and sewerage network in Titovo Uzice. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1982 (after two extensions) but the account remains
open to allow disbursement in respect of expenditures under contracts signed
before the closing date.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Diate: November 9, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982; (account left open).
Construction works are proceeding well and the project is
substantially completed. The loan was closed on 12/31/82 but account remains
open to allow final disbursements.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water. US$54.0 Million Loan of February 3.
1977; Effective Date; JulY 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progress is about three years behind schedule
and the Closing Date has been postponed initially by one year to
December 31, 1983. Contract for ICB procurement of G.R.P. pipes was signed
on January 22, 1983; however, it was necessary to reduce the scope of supply
to conform to the tender. Modified contract is expected to be validated on
April 8, 1983. The single remaining ICB contract for automatic regulation
equipment is expected by mid-hay, 1983. Based on current progress, all LCB
contracts should be awarded by July 31, 1983. Irrigation system for about
12200 ha will be ready by 1984. Completion of the total system is now
planned for December 31, 1984, which will fit in with current plans for land
consolidation.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Ef.ective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date;
June 30, 1983.
The project is substantially completed. The winery operations are
completed and operational. rarm center construction is complete and farm
roads are nearing completion. The completed irrigation system is supplying
2,014 ha under vineyards and orchards. The loan is 90% disbursed. Due to
high rates of local inflation costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by
about 60%.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries; US$24.0 Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date; July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-industry facilities have now come into force and
four of the sev.tn sub-projects are completed. Contracts have been signed
and approved for the remaining sub-projects. All individual sector funds
have been completed and disbursed. The loan is 87Z disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Poier Transmission: US$80.0 Million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed with a delay of about two
years and the closing date has been extended by six months to 6/30/83, in
order to allow fiAll loan disbursement. The loan is practically fully
committed. The Borrowers have been advised that there would be no further
extension of the closing date.



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 Million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date; January 30, 1978; Closing Date: August 31, 1983.
The loan is fully committed and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 902 of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Government's recent stabilization measures
however, exceptional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
consequently the closing date has been extended a second time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to disburse against purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$lOo Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date; September 28, 1978; Closing Date; June-30, 1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total US$ 97.0 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Remedial actions will be agreed upon in the context of the
proposed loaxi for a Sixth Railway Project.
Loan 1561 Middle Ntretva Hydro Power;  US$73 Million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date; June 30, 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since December 1982. Part B, originally not financed
by the Bank (Mostar Dam), however, has been delayed by problems with the
site geology and funding. The technical problems have been solved and the
detailed designs of the Mostar dam and power plant are now available.
Regarding the funding, a supplemental Bank loan is now under consideration.
If action on this loan is taken before June 30, 1983, Part B of the Project
could be completed by December 1987, assuming that funding for the local
costs is forthcoming.



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978: Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates due to late approval of two large "special subprojects" and
changes in the originally approved equipment lists and often incomplete
withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit Department of the borrower
Kosovska Banks Pristina (KBP) continues to be weak, especially in terms of
proper project appraisal and supervision. This matter is being focussed
upon through frequent supervision. Also, institutional improvements will be
a major component of a proposed new loan to KBP.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 Million each
Loans of July 26,_1978;_Effective Date: Ncvember 16. 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimates. The closing dates for all
three Loans have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1983.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation; US$82 Million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
SeDtember 30, 1982; (account left open).
Project construction has been substantially completed. The loan
account has been kept open in order to enable disbursements against
contracts for which commitments have been made prior to September 30, 1982.
$81.29 million disbursed as of March 31, 1983.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date; March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns h&ve neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The fV ancing
problem and inadequate progress in the individual sector has been resolved
and specific action programs have been agreed with the borrower and the
implementing agency. As cf March 31, 1983 about 93 percent of the loan has
been committed and 45 percent disbursed. Given the stage of overall project
implementation, the most likely completion date would be December 1984.



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1678 Tenth Higlway: US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Project now faces delays of about 15 months because of reduced
road expenditures now planned by Government. Revised investment plans
prepared by all participanLs. All links are now committed. Works will now
extend to early 1984 in Kosovo, Vojvodina, Bosnia and Macedonia. Only
Montenegro has completed its program according to the original schedule.
Loan closing date has been postponed to September 30, 1984.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 Million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Project management problems and
inadequate funds together with import restrictions had calused procurement
delays. Revised financing plan with assurance of funds has now been
prepared and import restrictions for the project have eased. Studies on
sub-surface drainage had a delayed start. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing. The loan
is 35% disbursed.
Loan 1768 Nontenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 Millior.
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: .A4ril 29, lb;QI,
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is currently about two years behind schedule,
primarily due to delays in preparation of designs and contract documents for
civil works stemming from more rigid design criteria to withstand
earthquakes and from the lack of adequately experienced project and support
staff. Bank missions have repeatedly emphasized need to strengthen staff,
and part management has recently taken remedial action. Contracts for civil
works are in progress and should be completed by about May/June 1983 or
shortly thereafter. Bids for workshop equipment and for new tugboats have
been received and some contracts awarded by PBWO. Deliveries of equipment
and tugboats in early 1984 appears likely. The original closing date of
December 31, 1982 has been postponed until June 30, 1984 to allow for longer
than anticipated delivery period for remaining Bank financed items.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehaubilitation - Railways: US$14 Million Loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $6.39 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as a result of complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel. ahe Borrower's request for an
extension of the closing date is under consideration.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Progress in commitments in the social sector is very slow.  In the
individual sector, 93% of funds are committed, while in the social sector
only 41X is committed. The agroindustry subprojects have still to be
identified in some Republics; and a few approved processing facilities are
behind schedule. The progress in physical implementation in the individual
sector is good. The loan is about 35% disbursed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1934.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank. The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
reviewed. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays arising from shortage of local
funds, project completion will be about 18 months behind schedule. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to June 30, 1984. Further
extension of one year might be necessary and would be considered on the
basis of project implementation in accordance with a revised schedule.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984.
Loans 1910 (PBS) and 1912 (SBS) are being committed rapidly, while
commitments under Loans 1909 (KBP) and 1911 (IBT) are behind schedule.
Commitments by KBP and IBT started late due to external factors, but have
picked up rapidly and is expected to be completed within the currently
stipulated commitment period.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 Million Loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1986.
Eighty-five percent of the loan proceeds are committed.
Withdrawals have commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is
due to procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds.  This has been taken
up with the Government in order to resolve the issue. As for the physical
implementation of the Project, progress is very good. In the individual
sector, about 800 livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards
are expected to be completed by the end of 1982, while 11 out of 14
agro-industrial facilities are uncder construction, of which 5 are likely to
become operational in the Spring 1983. Progress under the irrigation
component continues to be unsatisfactory. Action plans for support services
approved by the Bank and implementation is underway.



- 63 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million Loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
After a slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily   Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
(SS7TT) equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Upon request of
the Borrower the Bank has agreed to a reallocation of loan funds which will
become surplus because of favorable results on the SS&TT contract and the
devaluation of the Dinar. The surplus funds will finance the acquisition of
four diesel motor trains for which a contract will shortly be awarded.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: W90 Million Loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
About 252 of the Loan amount has yet to be committed and the
Borrower, KBP, is behind schedule in hiring requisite support staff. Six
agro-industry investors have signed construction and equipment installation
contracts and work has started. The investors for two other agro-industry
subprojects expect within the month to finalize contracts according to the
bid evaluation reports, after considerable delays due to the investors'
requests to change processing capacity or product line. The four remaining
agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into consideration
chinges in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of 2,000 ha of
plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to seven social
sector iavestors covering about 1,600 ha for vineyards and orchards. For
the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans for 300 ha of
vineyards. For the Groundwater studies component, the consultants have
completed the detailed terms of refezence and cost estimates and started
work on hydro-geologic investigations.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 Million Loan of
July 23, 1981; Effective Date: Januarv 6, 1982; Closing Date;
June 30, 1987.
Project implementation is ahead of s-^hedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule. The social sector yineyard (1,450 ha) and
orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store component (15,000 tons)
were fully committed. Individual sector investments are also ahead of
schedule. Although near_y all feasibility studies have been completed, the
small-scale irrigation compo-ient is behind schedule due to SBS appraisal
bottlenecks and to problems with generating the 20% local contribution to be
provided by the Communes.



- 64 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply: $41 Million Loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date: April 14, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Overall construction
progress has been good and the quality of construction is high. Contracts
for all major components of the project have been awarded. Due to several
contributory factors revised total project cost has been reduced which will
result in a savings of US$15.0 million from the Bank loan.
Loans 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Project: $33 Million Loan
Each Loans of August 31, 1982; Effective Date: November 23, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 28, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily. S0.98 million disbursed as of
March 31, 1983.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural Development Project: $35 Million Loan
of May 4, 1982; Effective Date:   November 23, 1982; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
this loan became effective on November 23, 1982. Bid Evaluation
Reports for all six agro-industrirl processing facilities have been cleared
by the Bank. About 40% of the Contract Documents have been received while
others are awaited by end April 1983. Construction of about 602 of the
Popovo Polje Irrigation Project has been completed.
Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage: $34.6 Million Loan of May 27, 1982;
Effective Date: April 29, 1983; Closing Date: September 30,
1987.
The loan is not yet effective. The new Date of Effectiveness is
ret for April 29, 1983. Federal ratification and legal opinion are awaited.
Loan 2233 Tuzla Water Supply and Sewerage: $30.0 hillion Loan of
January 25, 1983; Effective Date: June 10, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
The Project was appraised in March/April 1982. Loan documents
were signed on February 10, 1983. The loan is not yet effective.



- 65 -
ANNEX III
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLE1IENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First Government Presentation to the Bank;   December 1982
(b) Reconnaisance Mission:                         January 20-29, 1983
(c) Appraisal:                                     February 28-March 18, 1983
(d) Post-appraisal:                                April 7-14, 1983
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                   May 17, 1983
(f)  Planned Effectiveness:                        August 1983
Section II - Special Bank ImpLe-mentation Action
The Bank will exchange views from time to time with the Government
on the progress in implementing the structural adjustment program set forth
in its Letter of Development Policy.
Section III - Special Conditions
A.   Effectiveness
Establishment of Export Development Fund and Special Account (para. 78)
B.   Other
Release of the second tranche of $100 million of the loan would depend
upon the Governmeat making satisfactory progress in carrying out
commitments undertaken in its Letter of Development Policy and
executing its economic program following the first exchange of views
with the Bank expected to take place in October 1983 (para. 76).



- 66 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 24
hr. A. W. Clausen
President
The World Bank
1818 R Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear hr. Clausen:
1.       In view of the positive experience and the heretofore very
successful cooperation between Yugoslavia and the World Bank, the Federal
Executive Council has formulated .this Letter on Y'igoslavia's development
policy till the end of 1985, directly connecteC with the talks on new forms
of our long-standing cooperation i.e. relevant to the request for granting
Yugoslavia the first loan for the structural adjustment of the Yugoslav
economy.
2.       In this letter the Federal Executive Council has articulated the
directions of development and current economic policy which it will submit
before the SFRY Assembly, and along the lines of which it will evolve its
activity in implementing the economic stabilization policy, and inform the
World Bank on the results on a regular basis. Taking account of the
opinions of your mission advanced during the talks conducted with the
Yugoslav authorities in Belgrade in February and April of this year that
the World Bank through these forms of cooperation in no way wants to bring
into question the self-management system and decision-making modes on
national development and economic policy based on our constitutional order,
the Federal Executive Council shall submit to the SFRY Assembly and execute
the declared intent of this letter within its jurisdiction as well as take
decisions in accordance with the socio-economic system established and
constituted in Yugoslavia.
3.       We also wish to express the view and the assurances of the Federal
Executive Council that, in view of the degree of Yugoslavia's development,
the prevailing external circumstances affecting the development of our
country, as well as the efforts and results in the implementation of the
economic stabilization policy and in dealing with certain problems in our
economy, the intent of this letter is part of a more comprehensive strategy
and policy of the development of our country expressed through the
long-term stabilization program. The Federal Executive Council shall
pursue the long-term stabilization program with determination with a view
to the successful continuation of the country's social and economic
development based on socialist self-management and a non-aligned foreign
policy.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 24
The Macroeconomic Situation
4.       As you are aware, developments in the international economy since
1979 have placed a great strain on the Yugoslav economy. The rise in oil
prices, taken together with the weak performance of Yugoslav exports in
that year and in the years preceding and the burden of increased interest
payments on international debt, had led to a balance-of-payments deficit of
$3.7 billion in 1979. This deficit, together with other disturbances in
commodity and money relations in the domestic economy, had led the
Government as early as the second half of 1980 to begin to introduce and
implement a program of stabilization measures which between 1981 and 1983
have become became increasingly comprehensive and better defined and are
still in the course of implementation. The main characteristics of these
measures, which have been supported by substantial assistance from the IMF
since June 1980, are primarily related to a considerable increase of
production through increased capacity utilization and strengthening of its
competitive capabilities in relation to foreign countries and increase of
exports, particularly to the convertible currency area. It has been
necessary to act more resolutely to adapt all forms of consumption to real
income and material possibilities, and to this end we opted for more
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies, a more active policy of the rate
of exchange of the dinar to encourage exports, curb public consumption,
curb investment demand and promote investment efficiency by increasing the
share of organizations of associated labour in financing investments, with
a concurrent restriction on credit demand, and take other similar measures
aimed at removing generators of unstable relations in reproduction. At the
same time action has been taken to reduce import purchases in line with
revenues accruing from export earnings and from a more restrained program
of foreign borrowing than has been the case in the preceding period.
5.       As a result of these measures, Yugoslavia was successful in
reducing its balance-of-payments deficit substantially to $2.3 billion in
1980 and to $0.9 billion in 1981. These improvements were based upon a
considerable increase in exports of goods and nonfactor services, which
increased by 11 in 1980 and 12% in 1981 in real terms. Notwithstanding
this export performance, achieving the balance of payments deficit
mentioned above involved outright cuts in imports of 10% in 1980 and a
further 2X in 1981. These changes have resulted in an increase of the
coverage of imports by exports to 59.6% in 1980 and 70.2% in 1981 as
compared to 48.5% in 1979. The cuts in imports were necessitated by
several factors, including insufficient merchandise exports, the weak
performance of exports of invisibles and the continued adverse impact of
rising international interest rates. In addition, the deteriorating
climate in international capital markets led to a reduction in the level
and certainty with which foreign funds could be used in Yugoslavia, adding
further to the need to constrain imports.



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 24
6.       Although we had reason to feel encouraged by developments in the
balance of payments between 1979 and 1981, these gains were at an
appreciable cost to the economy as a whole and were accompanied by other,
less positive developments. The growth rate of social product of 7.0% in
1979 was sharply reduced to 2.22 and 1.5%, respectively, in 1980 and 1981,
with industrial output especially hard hit, its 1979 growth rate of 8.22
falling to 4.1% in 1980 and 1981. The need to step up exports and to
address the country's external liquidity problems despite low economic
growth involved reductions of all forms of final consumption. Particularly
noteworthy were trends in real fixed investment, from growth of 6.4% in
1979 to reductions of 1.7% in 1980 and a further 9.3% in 1981 as well as
reductions in real personal incomes in the social sector by 8% in 1980 and
5% in 1981. Despite significant reductions in domestic demand,
inflationary pressures remained considerable and have necessitated measures
of social price control in accordance with our Anti-Inflation Program.
7.       Developments in 1982 did not, unfortunately, lead to any
significant reversal in these trends. Despite our best efforts there was a
revival in domestic demand in the first half of that year, accompanied by a
worsening in inflationary pressure. At the same time exports to the
convertible currency area were reduced as compared to the preceding year
and there was a reduction of foreign exchange inflow from tourism as well
as from workers' remittarcft  :le to a number of external and internal
causes. External liquidity diffic..lties of some of our banks prevented us
from completing our borrowing program and maintaining our short-term debt
liabilities at planned levels. The consequence of these developments was
to put further pressure on our imports from the convertible area. While
the balance of payments deficit with the convertible area was reduced
substantially, this was almost wholly due to reductions in imports to an
extent that has been harmful to the smooth running of the economy, above
all industrial production. Additional measures to restrict demand were
taken in 1982 leading to a further reduction in real personal incomes in
the social sector of about 3%. Fixed investments were also further reduced
by about 6%.
Structural Aspects
8.       While on the one hand trends in the external environment were
important proximate causes of our current difficulties, on the other the
severity of our present economic situation also reflects certain structural
problems in the development of the Yugoslav economy in recent years. Of
particular importance were investment policy and certain aspects of the
framework for the allocation of the available resources.
9.       In the area pf investment policy our fundamental objective,
embodied in Yugoslavia's 1976-1980 medium-term plan, was to direct



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 24
investment into certain priority sectors whose accelerated development was
seen as necessary by mutual agreement between the socialist republics and
the socialist autonomous provinces, and which are of particular importance
to the development of the Yugoslav economy as a whole. Our experience in
the 1976-1980 medium-term plan period revealed certain weaknesses in the
envisaged material and financial frameworks for implementing the investment
policy agreed upon. The assumptions and frameworks of the plan were
designed to give stronger expression to the principle that organizations of
associated labour have a decisive role in investment proposals and in
taking decisions to invest with a view to the accelerated development of
the economy and society in general. However, the eagerness to attain the
agreed development objectives as set in the plan and the fact that, owing
to a number of external and internal factors the required domestic capital
was not available, accompanied by relatively high inflation and the
underpricing of capital (as reflected in negative real interest rates), led
to excessive investment demand in comparison with the financing
possibilities available. Consequently, the very ambitious program
initiated in the 1976-1980 plan period led to too many projects being
simultaneously launched throughout the country, with the inevitable
consequence that investable resources were stretched too thinly over too
many projects. A number of factors contributed to these difficulties; the
definition of priority sectors for investment proved to be too broad and
insufficiently selective; expectations regarding the growth of investors'
own sources of financing did not materialize to a sufficient degree, which
in turn led to increased reliance on external sources of financing, one of
the causes of this being the very slow progress in the pooling of resources
between enterprises; insufficient attention was paid to the financial
planning of investments and in connection thereto to establishing the
framework for the allocation of resources for the accelerated development
of priority sectors; insufficient attention was paid to the economic
evaluation and market viability of projects in the project appraisal and
selection process; as stated, in view of the high rate of inflation,
interest rates did not play a sufficiently important role in directing
investable resources; price rises in the investment sector led to high
cost overruns reflected in reduced investment efficiency and other factors
caused by general economic instability.
10.      These problems, and particularly the problems generated by a
regime of increasingly negative interest rates were complicated by other
distortions in the allocative framework. In the area of trade policy an
overvalued exchange rate for the dinar, together with the protective
mechanisms that became necessary to defend such a rate, insufficiently
stimulated production for exports, which in turn resulted in a worsening of
structural problems. At the same time, certain relative price distortions
in the transportation, energy and agricultural sectors discouraged
efficient investment and consumption decisions. Finally, the overall



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 24
conditions of economic activity in which economic decisions were taken by
organizations of associated labour made them less responsive to market laws
than was desirable, since a wide variety of mechanisms existed to absorb
losses and to protect the economic agents involved from the adverse
consequences of such decisions.
11.      Given the consequences of this policy regime toward the end of the
last plan period, and the aggravated state of external and internal
conditions, the framework of Yugoslavia's 1981-1985 Social Plan aimed for a
much slower growth of the economy with a reduction in the investment rate
and a stress on the completion of on-going projects through allocating more
resources to more narrowly defined priority activities with a view to a
faster elimination of basic structural problems. However, due to the
further deterioration in the world economy and in the external position of
Yugoslavia, it soon became clear that even these scaled back targets were
too ambitious, given the resources envisaged in the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia. It also became clear that considerable changes in the
functioning of mechanisms and instruments of the economic system and
economic policy would be needed to undertake the faster structural
adjustment of the economy, if the economy was to be put back onto a
relatively fast and stable growth path.
12.      In keeping with our specific political and socio-economic system,
a special Commission, called the Stabilization Commission, was set up in
July 1980, within the Federal Social Councils to deal with the issues of
economic stabilization. The main task of this Commission was to work out a
comprehensive and long-term program of economic stabilization. This
program was to be the basis for the work of the appropriate competent
organs in solving the most pressing issues in the fields of current
economic and developmental policy. With the participation of a large
number of scientistd, experts and other public workers from the whole
country, the Commission has been working on eighteen studies, which concern
the strategic development of the country and measures of economic policy.
The work of this Commission is now nearing completion, and it is expected
that a program of economic stabilization in the form of a legal act will be
submitted to the Assembly of Yugoslavia in the first half of this year, to
be adopted by the Assembly this year with the consent of all the assemblies
of the republics and provinces. Proceeding from the results of the work of
this Commission to date, and in parallel with this, as specified in more
detail below, we have been undertaking a series of economic policy actions
designed to address the major socio-economic issues referred to above.
13.      One consequence of the deliberations of the Stabilization
Commission, and of the discussion and debate of its proposals that have
ensued, has been the revision of the medium-term development orientation of
the country. In this connection, work is in progress on the amendments to



- 71 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 24
the Social Plan of Yugoslavia and the social plans of the republics and
autonomous provinces for the 1981-1985 period. At the same time, these
revisions will serve as the basis for the long-term concept of the
country's development policy through 1990 and 2000. The main
characteristics of the revised framework are: the faster structural
adjustment of the economy aimed at a more efficient and complete inclusion
of our country in the international division of labour; adjustment of
domestic demand in line with realistically available resources; a greater
reliance on market forces, coupled with appropriate guidance by the plan;
and the adaptation of appropriate economic policy measures and instruments
to achieve macroeconomic balance in the economy. At the same time, given
the current unsettled conditions in international financial markets, there
has been a reaffirmation of the policy of economic stabilization to
restrict the growth in external indebtedness of the country, through
greater reliance on domestic potential, and by facilitating increased
exports and improved utilization of resources.
14.      Details of our medium-term economic adjustment program are
presented below. As you will see, this program is directly aimed at
eliminating the weaknesses in the regime of socio-political measures
identified earlier, as well as towards attaining the developmental
objectives which we deem appropriate in view of the present situation in
our economy.   With the support provided to us by the World Bank, the IMF
and other financial institutions in recent months, we feel that this is the
appropriate time for intensifying activities aimed at the faster structural
adjustment of our economy, as a necessary condition for implementing the
program of economic stabilization and restoring the trend of relatively
dynamic economic growth which would reflect more accurately the use of the
available economic potential during the next medium-term period 1986-1990.
The Medium-Term Adjustment Program
15.      The Yugoslav program for 1983 is articulated in the Annual Plan
Resolution for 1983, currently in effect. The salient features of this
program are also described in a Letter of Intent addressed by Yugoslavia to
the Managing Director of the IMF. This program, among other things,
envisages further restrictions in all forms of domestic consumption and
continued significant reductions in fixed investments, in line with the
possibilities for ensuring resources from realistic sources. These
restrictions, coupled with the strengthening of qualitative factors in
economic activities and a- -ctive dinar exchange rate policy, should have a
favourable impact on the competitiveness of the Yugoslav economy and boost
export efforts. Other elements of this program include increases in
interest rates and selective price increases designed to correct relative
price distortions.



- 72 -
AFNEX IV
Page 7 of 24
16.      The 1981-1985 five-year Social Plan of Yugoslavia and the plans of
the republics and autonomous provinces for the same period are also in the
process of revision. Their revision is expected to be completed by the end
of this year. The orientation of economic policy will remain, broadly
speaking, unchanged. One of the main objectives of the plan is to put the
balance of payments with the convertible currency area on a more secure
footing through a vigorous expansion of exports while reducing the relative
external indebtedness of the country. Given the scaled down material
possibilities, these amendments to the plans are not expected to bring
about a more dynamic economic growth and a more considerable increase in
domestic consumption before the end of this planning period. More dynamic
growth in the following planning period should however be possible on the
basis that is established. Within this general framework the principal
directions of economic policy and activities in the current plan are given
below. Our intention is to conclude, by the end of June this year, an
agreement on amendments to the Agreement on the Bases of the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia for the 1981-1985 period and to prepare appropriate analytical
materials on the developmental possibilities of the country to the end of
1985, which will serve as a basis for amendments to the Plan. The
competent organs shall inform the Bank, not later than the end of September
1983, on the results of the work on amendments to the plan documents with
particular emphasis on .he main development objectives and the priority
sectors of the economy, submitting to the Bank plan documents which in the
meantime are to be enacted. Prior to adopting the Annual Resolutions of
Economic Policy for 1984 and 1985 the Bank shall be informed on the
macroeconomic assumptions on which investment policy is to be based and the
proposed sectoral allocation of investment for the relevant year, and the
necessity for discussion on specific issues emanating from these documents
will be jointly assessed.
Investment Policy and Resource Allocation
Ongoing Investments.
17.      As already noted, there have been significant reductions in the
volume of investments in the last three years, and the Annual Plan for 1983
envisages a further reduction in real fixed investments by 20X. Tnis
process of bringing investments in line with real investable resources is
expected to continue into 1984 and 1985 so that the volume of fixed
investment over the 1981-1985 period will be about 20-25Z lower than in the
original plan. In the course of implementing these cuts and in preparation
for the remaining years of the medium-term plan we have been engaged in
narrowing and refocussing our investments in the desired direction. We
have already successfully reduced the volume of non-economic investments to
a far greater extent than that of investments in economic activities, as
had been our intention. Within economic activities, our orientation has



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 24
been to concentrate on completing ongoing projects, particularly those
which will provide the most immediate effects as regards increased
production and the improvement of the balance of payments. We have
severely limited the initiation of new projects, except those which will
clearly in a relatively short time have a beneficial impact on the balance
on payments and solve, on a more permanent basis, the structural p-oblems
in the economy. In addition to improving the balance of payments, through
increased production for export and rational import substitution, we intend
to accord priority to energy production and conservation and to food
production. Our views of priorities will be reflected in the sectoral
allocation of investment resources, to be incorporated in the revised
medium-term plan.
18.      While the total number of ongoing investment projects is still
very large, a relatively small number of large projects account for a
substantial portio of the work in progress. We have therefore paid
particular attention to these large projects with a view to reducing their
number and rephasing their execution in line with our financial
capabilities and the above-mentioned priorities. In the context of our
review of the program of ongoing investments, and related to changes in the
social development plans, and in view of the importance of the energy
sector in our overall adjustment strategy, we intend to complete a special
review of our investment program in the energy sector by June this year, in
conformity with the long-term development of the energy sector of
Yugoslavia. Results of this special review will be communicated to the
Bank. In accordance with our economic system, we intend to rely on
indirect measures to reorient investment towards priority activities and
away from those considered non-priority. In this connection, a number of
measures have already been undertaken aimed at curbing investment in
non-priority activities. Under the credit policy for 1983, the level of
bank credits for non-priority investment projects will in nominal terms be
considerably reduced in comparison with 1982. In addition, under the Law
on Temporary Injunction against Issuing Guarantees and Other Instruments
for Securing Resources from Future Revenues and against Granting Credits
and Issuing Guarantees for Cost Overruns in the Financing of Investments,
the banks are prohibited from issuing guarantees and financing cost
overruns in non-priority activities. Given the inflation to date, it is
expected that these restrictions will lead to a significant real decline in
the share of non-priority investment in total investment. These measures
will enable us to effect structural changes in the pattern of investments,
not only in the large projects mentioned above, but also in medium-size and
smaller projects.
19.      In order to strengthen project monitoring capabilities, the
Federal Social Planning Institute, the Federal Social Accounting Service
and the Federal Institute of Statistics have begun work on an improved



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 24
system for recording the progress on ongoing investment projects. The
first step in this process shall be the preparation of semi-annual reports
on ongoing investment projects, particularly on projects exceeding 750
million dinars, starting in October 1983. Particular attention will be
given to reporting on progress in projects included in the revised program
of priority activities, especially those in the energy sector mentioned
above. The Bank shall be informed in an agreed format about findings based
upon these reports and evaluation of competent organs, and discussion on
these reports shall be held as considered necessarv. In addition, we
intend to move to a system of more frequent quarterly reporting during 1984
once the system of recording investments and the technical procedure become
established. Information on the economic and financial rates of return on
new projects the value of which exceeds 750 million dinars, shall also be
communicated to the Bank starting April 1984.
New Investments
20.      An indispensable part of our structural adjustment effort and of
the improved environment for investment decisions is to elaborate criteria
_-nd parameters which would ensure a more rational selection of investment
pro?cts in a way that is compatible with our self-managed system of
decisicn-making. In our view such improvements should consist of improved
criteria for the appraisal of investment projects and of appropriate
mechanisms to implement them, the more realistic evaluation of investment
costs and tle greater accountability of investing units for the outcome of
these investmnent decisions.
21.      A number of steps have already been taken to improve the
institutional nnd legal framework for investment approval and
coordination. Firstly, for all proposed investments, assured sources of
financing must be secured. Secondly, the contributions of the investors
are clearly specified in the Law on Special Conditions for Approving
Investment Credits, and are based on a sliding scale ranging from 10-9OX,
depending on the purpose of investments. Thirdly, in contrast to past
practice, the banks are now prohibited from issuing guarantees against the
future income of the organization of associated labour to cover its
contribution to the financing of investment (except in a limited number of
priority areas). It is expected that these measures will in combination
serve to reduce the demand for investable resources, and by requiring
investors to contribute more of their own resources to investment projects
also to introduce a more cautious approach to new investments.
24.      We are also in the process of implementing a program to improve
project selection and appraisal prozedures in Yugoslavia, in accordance
with the agreed development policy. The first step in this process was
taken in November 1982 when the Social Compact on Registering Proposed



- 7c -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 24
Investments was concluded, requiring investors to register proposed
investment projects in the economic sectors with a value in excess of 50 or
100 million Dinars with the Regional or Federal Chambers of Economy. We
intend, by June 1'78, to conclude, in Yugoslavia, a Social Compact on the
Criteria for, and Evaluation of, the Socio-economic Justification of
Proposed Investments wziich will be used in conjunction with the existing
compacts in some republics which deal in greater detail with such matters
and with criteria determined by individual banks. The draft Compact
provides for a number of minimum criteria that must by met by projects
throughout the country, and for the methods of institutional implementation
and monitoring of these criteria. These criteria will, inter alia, include
the economic rate of return (calculated according to the World Bank
methodology) for investment projects in the economic sectors in conformity
with the Social Compact mentioned above. This Compact would provide for a
minimum economic rate of return on the investment, taking into account the
criteria of the World Bank, although the minimum rate of return would vary
depending on the nature of the activity. The proposed Social Compact will
provide for the establishment of appropriate bodies attached to the
Chambers of Economy which would give opinions regarding the social and
economic justification of registered proposed investments, taking into
account the agreed criteria and their implementation, in conformity with
the right of working people independently and in a self-management manner
to decide on investments. In line with the legal regulations, this opinion
would be, within an appropriate time frame (which shall be fixed in the
mentioned Compact), submitted to the management body of the BOAL concerned,
which would, on its part, be obliged to inform the workers on this opinion
before the final investment decision is taken, as well as for the purpose
of informing all other interested OALS, communities, banks as well as the
Federal, Republican and Provincial Institutes for Social Planning.
23.      Complementing the conclusion of this Social Compact, it will be
necessary to strengthen the capacity of personnel in the OALs, commercial
banks and chambers of economy for the purpose of monitoring and
implementing this Compact as well as other established and agreed criteria
and to work on the promotion of the system of criteria for the evaluation
of socio-economic justification of investments. Accordingly, Federal,
Republican and Provincial Chambers of Economy and the commercial banks
will, by December 1983 prepare personnel training and recruitment :r-ograms
for improved investment efficiency review procedures, so that by December
1984, the Federal and regional Chambers of Economy and commercial banks
will have sufficient trained personnel for the revised investment
procedures.
24.      With the financial aid of the World Bank we intend to conduct
studies in important subsectors of industry and other studies with a view
to improving the investment efficiency in these subsectors. These



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 24
subsector studies could form the basis of future subsector lending by the
World Bank to Yugoslavia. Ine framework and modalities of these studies
would be discussed with the World Bank in September 1983.
Interest Rate Policy
25.      During the past year, the interest rate mechanism has been
actively used in support of our adjustment efforts. Since March 1982,
nominal deposit interest rates have been raised on three occasions. The
most recent increase occured in FeL..tary 1983, with the result that the
lending rates on commercial bank credits from their own resources have
risen significantly. Although new lending rates vary significantly
according to the particular circumstances of each bank, lending rates for
non-priority purposes, and in some instances even priority projects, are
approaching or have reached real levels. However, despite these increases
in nominal interest rates, owing to the continued relatively high rate of
inflation in Yugoslavia, average lending rates on commercial bank resources
and more especially on selective credits and special funds have remained
negative in real terms. There is a firm intention of gradual attainment of
real interest rates over several years through, primarily, reducing
inflation rates and gradually adjusting the nominal interest rates to these
trends, in conformity with the long-term orientation of the Anti-inflation
Program.
26.      The most recent increase in borrowing interest rates, effected in
February this year, was based on our assumptions of likely annual growth in
producers prices.  In accordance with tie objectives of the medIum-term
policy and determination to gradually adjust the interest rates to the rate
of inflation, if the information shows that producers prices rise at a rate
of growth faster than the 1lanned one, we shall review the need to adjust
interest rates to such trends.
27.      As concerns the interest rate policy in the coming years providing
for the adjustment of interest rates in line with the movements in
inflation, it is proposed to introduce a floor lending rate for new credits
from domestic commercial bank resources. This floor interest rate would be
introduced as of January 1, 1984 and would initially amount to 18%. Should
inflation in 1983 (January 1 to December 31, 1983) be higher than
anticipated, this initial interest rate would be increased by at least
one-third of the difference between the initial floor rate (182) and the
rate of inflation in 1983 (as measured by the index of producers prices).
The process of adjustment of interest rates resulting in the attainment of
real interest rates would be concluded in 1986. In the course of this
period, real interest rates should be gradually introduced, namely:
- For economic sectors, in January 1985 the floor interest rate
would be increased by at least one-third of the difference



- 77 -
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 24
between the growth of producers prices and the floor interest
rate set for 1984. However, if in 1984 the rate of growth of
retail prices should exceed the growth of producers prices, the
floor interest rate for 1985 vould be increased by an
additional amount equal to at least one-third of the difference
between the increase in the index of producers prices and the
index of retail prices. The same formula would be applied for
setting the floor interest rate in 1986. In January 1987 the
floor interest rate would be adjusted in accordance with the
index of producers prices for 1986, unless the rate of increase
of retail prices in 1986 was higher than that of producers
prices, in which case the floor interest rate would be at least
equal to the level of the increase of retail prices in 1986.
- For non-economic sectors, starting in Januse-y 1984, floor
interest rates would be adjusted annually in the course of the
following two years so that by January 1986 they reach the
level equal to at least the rate of inflation measured by the
index of retail prices for 1985.
28.      In the above context, exceptions would be iiace where interest
rates would also be increased in accordance with-this adjustment but not
with the same intensity and time frames, because of the selective financing
which is the function of the implementation of the policy of economic
stabilization in accordance with the medium-term development plau of the
country, namely:
(a) all export credits;
(b) all short-term credits for agriculture approved within the
framework of the selective credit policy of the Yugoslav
National Bank;
(c) investment credits for primary agricultural production
(cereals, milk, meat, industrial crops and conditions for
significantly increasing their production, that is large
irrigation and drainage works, land consolidation and bringing
new land under cultivation); for other agricultural investments
including agroindustry the provisions of pa-.agraph 27 shall
apply;
(d)  investment credits for other priority activities which will be
defined and identified in the Amendments to the Social Plan of
Yugoslavia for the 1981 - 1985 period;
(e) resources paid into the special funds for accelerated
development of less developed regions at the level of the



- 78 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 24
Federation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces, as well as
resources associated in the form of joint ventures in
accordance with the existing system of stimulating the
development of these regions.
The total volume of investment credits in fixed assets approved by domestic
banks under items (c), (d) and (e) will not in any given year, through
1985, exceed 25% of the revised volume of annual total investments in fixed
assets in the social sector in the 1983 - 1985 period. In January 1986,
more favorable interest rates on investment credits for fixed assets for
these purposes can be applied to not more than 25% of the total investment
credits of domestic banks for fixed assets in the social sector. The floor
iaterest rate for credits under item (c) will, as of January 1984, amount
to 18X augmented by one-fifth of the difference between the floor interest
rate (18Z) and the inflation in 1983 mezsured by the index of producers
prices. In January 1985 the floor interest rate would be increased by at
least one-fifth of the difference between the growth of producers prices
and the floor interest rate set for 1984. However, if in 1984 the rate of
growth of retail prices should exceed the growth of producers prices, the
floor interest rate for 1985 would be increased by an additional amount
equal to at least one-fifth of the difference between the increase ,6n the
index of producers prices and the index of retail prices. The same formula
would be applied for setting the floor interest rate in 1986, 1987 and
1988. In January 1989 the floor interest rate would be adjusted in
accordance with the index of producers prices for 1988, unless the rate of
increase of retail prices in 1988 was higher than that of producers prices,
in which case the floor interest rate would be at least equal to the level
of the increase of retail prices in 1988. We intend each year gradually to
adjust interest rates on credits under items (d) above in such a way as to
reach the level of real interest rates over a five year period starting on
January 1, 1984 with the proviso that the floor interest rate for these
credits, in January 1984, will not be less than the average rate of
reproductive ability of the economy of the country (i.e. the ratio between
amortization and accumulation and average use of business funds). In
January 1985 the floor interest rate would be increased by at least
one-fourth of the difference between the growth of producers prices and the
floor interest rate set for 1984. However, if in 1984 the rate of growth
of retail prices should exceed the growth of producers prices, the floor
interest rate for 1985 will be increased by an additional amount equal to
at least one-fourth of the difference between the increase in the index of
producers prices and the index of retail prices. The same formula would be
applied for setting the floor interest rate in 1986, 1987 and 1988. In
January 1989 the floor interest rate would be adjusted in accordance with
the index of producers prices for 1988, unless the rate of increase of
retail prices in 1988 was higher than that of producers prices, in which
case the floor interest rate would be at least equal to the level of the
increase of retail prices in 1988.



- 79 -
ANIUEX IV
Page 14 of 24
29.      The intention of the policy is to eliminate the difference between
the rate of inflation and the floor interest rate within the stated period
by appropriately increasing interest rates to reduce the gap between the
two in each successive year. Similarly, should there be a reduction in the
rate of inflation which was used as the basis for adjusting interest rates,
interest rates would be revised downwards accordingly. This means in the
event that the rate of increase in retail prices in any year should be
lower than the floor interest rate in that year, then the floor interest
rate would be revised downwards so that the floor rate of interest cannot
be lower than the rate of increase in retail prices.
30.      In accordance with our medium-term development policy and with the
system of stimulating accelerated development of economically less
developed republics and the SAP Kosovo, as well as other less developed
regions, and in accordance with the policy of interest rates proposed
above, an appropriate policy of differentiated interest rates would be
developed for all resources channelled to these regions through development
funds. The reason for this being that these are solidarity resources
targeted for a more harmonious development of the country and the reduction
of differences between more and less economically developed regions in
Yugoslavia, Another reason is that 50% of these resources are in the form
of the association of resources between those providing and those using
resources, which means that they jointly bear risks, effect the transfer of
experience, bring about technological and organizational improvement and
jointly generate income. The policy of economic stabilization envisages an
increasing share of resources associated in this manner as compared with
resources provided on the basis of obligatory loans.
31.      Our existing regulations enable the introduction of variable
borrowing and lending rates, so that the banks may provide for the
application of such interest rates in their credit agreements.
Financial Planning
32.      A particular problem that has been encountered in financial
planning in recent years has been the treatment of inflation, particularly
in the planning of the banks and of the financing of investment projects.
Under the present law, commercial banks must prepare investment plans on
the basis of constant prices. In this connection the plans of banks do not
cover the movement of inflation, leading to unrealistic planning and often
underfinancing of specific investment projects. It is our firm intention
to introduce financial planning at current prices, including planning in
the banks and financial planning of investment projects. To this end, the
Yugoslav Bank Association in consultation with the Federal Institute for
Social Planning will, not later than the end of 1983, propose an
appropriate methodology to enable the banks to make their financial and



- 80 -
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 24
operational projections at current prices starting in 1984. Starting at
the end of 1983, the Federal Institute for Social Planning with the
assistance of other competent federal bodies shall each year provide the
necessary medium-term assumptions to be used by all banks in preparing
their financial and operational planning at current prices.
33.      Improvements of the financial base and accountability of the
commercial banks relates to their provision for reserves (funds of joint
liability and reserve funds). Under the Credit and Banking Law of 1978 all
commercial banks are required to maintain a Joint Liability Fund which can
be used to write off bad debts. The Law requires that the Joint Liability
Fund not be less than 3X of each bank's total investments on December 31 of
the preceding year. The same Law requires that banks create a reserve fund
to maintain their liquidity. This fund should amount to 32 of each bank's
total investments in the preceding year. The banks are obliged to allocate
to it not less than 0.3% of their total investments until the level of 3X
is attained. A number of banks are currently in breach of both
requirements. In this connection, appropriate steps will be taken to
ensure that all banks reach these requirements over a period of several
years and subsequently maintain both funds at the level prescribed by the
Law. As regards the Joint Liability Fund amendments to the statutory
regulations will be proposed making it obligatory for all banks to
replenish this fund over a period of 6 years and maintain it thereafter at
the level of 3% of their total investments. In addition, we have been
Puccessful in reducing the use of short-term deposit resources for
l1ing-term lending by the banks. The 1983 Annual Plan Resolution prohibits
tanks to use more than 20% of their short-term reserves for long-term
lending. It is felt that this is consistent with prudent financial
management and measures shall be taken so as to ensure that banks maintain
this practice in the future.
Foreign Exchange Allocation and External Trade
34.      As was noted earlier, the acceleration of export growth to the
convertible currency areas is the most urgent and important priority of
economic policy. The performance in this area has been disappointing over
the course of 1982 and can be attributed to'several factors including
continuing stagnation in the economies of our partner countries, and in
world trade, shortages of imported inputs and inadequate movement in the
exchange rate of the dinar. In response to the poor performance in the
first half of the year, the dinar was devalued by 20% in October 1982, and
continuous exchange rate adjustments (in order to ensure continued
competitiveness of the Yugoslav economy) has become an accepted part of the
official policy and will remain so in 1984 and 1985.



- 81 -
ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 24
Foreign Exchange Allocation
35.      The intention of the 1978 Law on Foreign Exchange Operation and
Foreign Credit Relations was to make possible the flow of foreign exchange
within the economy on the basis of self-management. However, in conditions
characterized by a foreign exchange shortage, the operation of the
inter-bank foreign exchange market became extremely limited. The
implementation of a policy of realistic dinar exchange rates will in itself
contribute to reversing these trends. However, it was also considered
necessary to amend the provisions of the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations
and Foreign Credit Relations with effect from January 1, 1983. Therefore
it can be said that efforts are being exerted to ensure the stimulation of
exports and greater foreign exchange mobility in conditions when there was
a shortage of these resources. The competent federal authorities will
monitor and-assess the operation of the existing system and submit a report
to that effect to the Federal Executive Council by September 1983. The
report which would be available for discussion with the World Bank and the
IhF will include a program of activities to improve foreign exchange
mobility by undertaking necessary measures for reactivating the domestic
foreign exchange market and more liberal procedures for stimulating
organizations with surplus foreign exchange to sell it to deficit
organizations.
External Debt Reporting
36.      To assist in more rational planning of foreign exchange,
importance is attached to improving the information on foreign exchange
transactions. Measures have already been taken to revise the basis on
which the balance of payments is calculated, from a system of statistical
exchange rates to one of market exchange rates. The highest priority is
now being given to the completion of the program for the computerization of
external debt data, and necessary measures (including provision of staff
and financial resources) will be taken to ensure that the computerized
system of debt reporting and analysis is fully operational and capable of
providing analytically usable information by the end of 1983.  By July 1,
1983 the World Bank will agree with the National Bank of Yugoslavia on
reporting formats and a timetable that will provide a suitable test of the
system while providing information of use to the Bank and the Yugoslav
authorities.
Export Promotion
37.      In October 1982 a Law was introduced which gives priority in
foreign exchange allocation to exporters with signed export contracts.
With the proceeds of the Structural Adjustment Loan we shall establish a
permanent revolving Export Development Fund (EDF) from which potential



- 82 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 24
exporters could borrow the foreign exchange they need. In addition to the
proceeds of the SAL this fund shall be increased by foreign exchange
permanently purchased from the exporters that have benefited from EDF
resources. We also propose to augment the fund with additional amounts in
1984 and 1985.
38.      In June 1980 a new bank for export credits - The Yugoslav Bank for
International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC) was established. This bank
provides export credit insurance against non-commercial risks and
refinancing in dinars of medium- and long-term export credits made by
commercial banks to exporters of capital goods. The operations of the
YBIEC have expanded rapidly. The financial resources needed by this bank
to meet the demand for export credit financing up to 1985 as indicated in
its medium-term plan shall be made available by the banks, the National
Bank of Yugoslavia and other appropriate sources through the Annual Plan
Resolution for 1984 and 1985. Regarding the general development of the
institutional capability of the YBIEC, particularly with respect to market
information for capital goods and engineering exports, institutional and
personnel changes are already in progress. A detailed action plan will be
prepared by October 1983 which will cover activities regarding the further
institutional strengthening of personnel for these jobs. It is our
intention to fulfill this action plan by September 1984.
39.      In the past 30 years Yugoslavia has developed a solid
ini:astructure for export promotion, market information, and marketing.
L wever, there is a need to assess the efficiency of this infrastructure,
to improve the coordination among the various institutions and various
trade crganizations and to develop their capability, in particular, for the
promotion of Yugoslav exports to the developing countries and the OECD
area. The responsible organs will, by May 31, 1983, form a group which
will evaluate Yugoslavia's infrastructure for promoting exports and
marketing and formulate a program which will cover activities for improving
export promotion, organization, marketing as well as the further
qualification of personnel for these tasks. It is our intention to carry
out this program by t'he end of 1984.
40.      Yugoslavia's export incentive system is quite comprehensive.  Its
administration is divided among several institutions at the federal,
republican and provincial levels. It needs to be rationalized so as to
encourage the expansion of efficient export activities in terms of domestic
costs, and to reflect the principles of uniformity and automaticity.
During the last two years the Federal Community of Interest for Foreign
Economic Relations, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the
Federal Secretariat for Finance have conducted a review of the various
export incentives, while draft proposals have been the subject of detailed
consideration among the republican and provincial comunities of interest



- 83 -
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 24
for foreign economic relations, chambers of economy, banks and various
associations concerned. The export incentive system will be revised along
the following lines: with the real e..zhange rate of the dinar becoming the
main incentive for economic exports, direct subsidies granted by the
republics and provinces will gradually be phased out. Fiscal incentives,
such as direct and indirect tax exemptions and drawbacks will be the same
for all industrial branches and related to export value added and export
performance in order to encourage export specialization and exports with
high net foreign exchange earnings. Proposals are currently before the
Federal Assembly to grant exports duty-free access to imported inputs
wherever justified by the level of net foreign exchange earnings. The
revised system of export incentives will be discussed with the World Bank
at the end of 1983, prior to its implementation on January 1, 1984.
41.      It is our intention to build on the successful cooperation which
has been established between foreign enterprises and Yugoslav work
organizations by providing additional incentives for foreign investment in
Yugoslavia. We are currently engaged in a review of the laws regulating
foreign investment and expect modifications to this regulation before the
end of the year.
Import Liberalization
42.      The balance of payments difficulties with which Yugoslavia has
been faced for a certain period now, have made it difficult for us fully to
adhere to our long-term and essentially liberal policy of protection which
reflects a generally open trade regime with low tariff levels and few
quantitative restrictions. While tariff levels remain generally low, goods
subject to various types of quantitative restrictions account for
approximately 45% of the value of total imports, of which oil imports
accounted for 16% in 1982. This does not include the restrictions on
imports that have been enfcrced through the foreign exchange allocation
system.
43.      Measures are being taken to eliminate gradually this system of
quantitative restrictions, parallel with the improvement in the balance of
payments situation. As already indicated, in our program in the area of
foreign exchange allocation a progressively greater role will be pla,ed by
the dinar exchange rate in allocating foreign exchange. In connection with
this we intend to prep-re by September 1983 a program for phased
implementation starting in 1984 with a view to reducing the value of goods
subject to any form of quantitative restrictions (excluding oil imports) to
no more than 20% of the value of total imports by the end of 1985. A study
of existing Yugoslav protection measures will also be undertaken with a
view to establishing whether further adjustments in the trade regime are
warranted. Terms of reference for this study will be prepared by June 1983



8 84 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 24
(in consultation with the World Bank), and the study will be completed by
April 1985.
Price Policy
44.      As a temporary measure to control inflation, price ceilings for
all commodities except those sold on farmers markets were introduced in
July 31, 1982 and extended for another six months in January 1983. Until
January 1983 the authority for granting prices increases has rested solely
with the Federal Executive Council (FEC); thereafter, the authority for
granting price increases of some products and services has been transferred
to the Communities of Interest for Prices (COIPs) at the Federal,
Republican and Provincial levels.
45.      In January 1983, a Social Compact on Price Policy for 1983 was
signed establishing procedures for gradually phasing out ceiling prices of
goods and services, and in February and March 1983 the prices of some key
commodities were increased, including electricity, oil products, railway
transport and some food items.
46.      The number of commodities subject to price ceilings is being
progressively reduced in accord vith the Social Compact on Price Policy for
1983. On the other hand, long-term price policies are being prepared in
the energy, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, basic chemicals,
agriculture, forestry and rail transport sectors. These long-term price
policy measures will be established at the latest by September 1983. It is
expected that the SFRY Assembly shall adopt by September 1983 the Law
amending the 1980 Law on Premises of the Price System and Social Price
Control. In accordance with the Anti-Inflation Program, it is our
intention to attach enhanced significance to the role of world prices and
market forces in price setting and in that way enable the organizations of
associated labour in conditions of mutual linkage, interdependence and
joint responsibility to form the prices of their goods and services. In
hay 1983 the FEC freed a substantial share of industrial products from its
direct price control. Consequently only a limited number of defined
commodities (e.g., petroleum and petroleum derivatives) are now subject to
direct federal control. The intention is to continue to increase the
proportion of commodities where prices are formed independently by the
organizations of associated labor and are registered with the COIPS. In
the last quarter of 1983 and 1984 we will propose the basis of price policy
and our intentions of increasing the independent decision-making of the
BOALs regarding the formation of prices in accordance with the 1980 Law on
Premises of the Price System, and we will inform the World Bank immediately
thereof. Within the framework of these measures a policy aimed at
eliminating the distortions in the basic branch sectors (agriculture,



- 85 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 24
energy, transport! ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, etc.) will be
implemented.
47.      In agriculture, only the purchase prices of major commodities are
subject to federal regulations. These are in general above world prices
and their relative prices are broadly iD line with world prices. These
prices are normally set each September for the coming year and will take
into account world prices and the projected dinar exchange rate over the
coming year.
48.      We have already formulated a comprehensive strategy for the
rationalization of energy production and consumption. One of the
cornerstones of this strategy is the movement of energy prices to levels
that would be at parity with world prices. The prices of domestic and
imported crude oil are now at parity and the prices of petroleum products
are at or substantially above these prices. The intention is to maintain
these prices at least at their current level in real terms by adjusting
prices periodically to world market trends, the dinar exchange rate and the
domestic rate of inflation. The price of these products will be reviewed
at least twice a year to determine whether adjustments are required in the
light of these factors.
49.      As regards natural gas, the price of domestic gas is significantly
below that of imported gas. The intention is to move the domestic price of
gas to achieve parity with the imported price of gas by January 1987.
Towards attaining this objective the first major adjustment was made in May
1983. Further annual real adjustments in domestic gas prices will be
implemented in conformity with the long-term price policy in the sector of
energy, and we will regularly inform the,World Bank of our progress in
reaching this goal.
50.      As for the pricing of lignite, coal and electricity, it is our
intention to formulate a long-term policy for achieving parity with
economic prices over a period of 4-5 years; however, in order to assist the
author-ties in the formulation of the proposed policy, we plan to initiate
by September 1983 and complete by December 31, 1983, a study by JUGEL and
the hining Association to outline the appropriate pricing methodology.
51.      Presently the average tariff for electricity is below the economic
cost of supply, depending on conditions prevailing in the individual
republics and provinces. In order to ensure that consumers use electricity
efficiently, the average tariff for electricity for all consumers will be
moved, over a period of 4-5 years, towards parity with economic prices.
Towards attaining this objective the tariffs were increased by 25Z in March
1983. 'e intend to review the trend in producers prices during the period
since March this year, and increase tariffs for electricity in January 1984



- 86 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 24
by 15% in real terns (over the increase of producers prices during April to
December 1983). Further annual real adjustments in tariffs for
electricity, towards reaching the stated objective, will be implemented in
subsequent years.
52.      The long-term price policy in transport will provide for annual
tariff increases in the railway transportation sector above annual rates of
inflation so that, by the end of 1990, compensation payments to all Railway
Transport OrgLnizations (RTOs) will be eliminated, with some minor
exceptions. Towards attaining this objective, railway tariffs were
increased by 17% in December 1982 and 16X in February 1983. We intend to
increase railway tariffs in January 1984 by at least 10% in real terms
(over the increase in producers prices during January to December 1983).
In subsequent years starting in 1985, railway tariffs would be increased by
at least 6% in real terms to ensure that compensation payments decline over
the previous year. For road user charges, the long-term policy is to
adjust the charges in line with inflation rates in order to provide
adequate funds for road investments and maintenance. With this orientation
in mind, we intend to earmark road user charges for road expenditures. In
addition, at the time of the increase in liquid fuel prices the portion of
these prices earmarked for road user charges will be adjusted in accordance
with the price policy in force. The Council of Republican and Provincial
Self-managing Communities of Interest for Roads will prepare, by September
1983, a study defining a program of road maintenance and rehabilitation
requirements.
Financial Discipline
53.      In order to strengthen financial discipline in Organizations of
Associated Labour by increasing accountability for unprofitable operation,
a Law on Rehabilitation and Dissolution of Organizations of Associated
Labour was passed in 1980. This Law established a timetable for closing
loss-making organizations which cannot obtain resources for their
rehabilitation programs. It also provides for the reduction of personal
incomes of the workers in loss-making organizations, participation by banks
and other entities providing support for rehabilitation programs in their
design and monitoring, and for determining the causes of unprofitable
operationu and responsibilities of workers, bodies of management and
managers for the losses.
54.      Draft amendments to this Law, currently under consideration, would
further strengthen the role of banks and other organizations, 'hich
participate in financing the rehabilitation procedures, in the design and
monitoring of rehabilitation programs, and they also provide for the
possibility of replacing and recalling managers and bodies of management.
The Social Accounting Service (SDQ), which has the power to block payments



- 87 -
ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 24
of personal incomes in excess of the levels set in rehabilitation programs,
will closely monitor both the financial situation of such organizations and
the execution of their rehabilitation programs. ShGuld the bodies of
self-management fail to determine the causes of losses, fix responsibility
for such losses, and take appropriate measures to eliminate them, including
the replacement or recalling of those responsible, the draft amendments to
the Law provide for intervention by bodies of socio-political communities.
If is has not been possible to cover the losses by the end of the year
following the year in which they were incurred, the SDK will initiate
bankruptcy procedures. (These provisions do not apply to energy generation
and coal production organizations.)
55.      In addition, amendments to the 1975 Payments Law which have now
been proposed would restrict the volume and nature of inter-enterprise
credits arising from trading operations outside the banking system. Inter
enterprise credit not covered by instruments of payment will be reduced by
50 billion dinars in 1983 as compared with 1982. It is expected that the
amendments to the above Law as well as those to the 1980 Law on
Rehabilitation and Dissolution of Organizations of Associated Labour, and a
new law designed to prevent organizations from the investing and crediting
for which they lack adequate working capital will be passed by June 1983.
56.      By December 1983 additional measures will be prepared designed to
reduce the real value of payments to cover the losses of organizations of
associated labour so that these measures will limit the nominal value of
financial support from common reserve funds of socio-political communities
and from communities of interest to its 1983 level in both 1984 and 1985.
Energy Conservation
57.      The point of departure of our strategy for energy conservation,
substitution, rationalization and use is our Program for Energy
Conservation and Increased Use of Domestic Energy Resources. This program
has been passed by the Federal Executive Council, the Chamber of Economy of
Yugoslavia and the Standing Conference of Yugoslav Cities and Communes.
The program defines guidelines which are to be included in social compacts
and self-management agreements on energy conservation, substitution,
rationalization and consumption. The republican and provincial committees
for energy and industry have already initiated the application of the
program to concrete activities and plans to be pursued by work
organizations, especially by major energy consumers.
58.      With a view to implementing this program the Federal Executive
Council has taken a considerable number of measures, including laws and
other regulations already in force. The republics and provinces have also
developed their energy conservation programs, while organizations of



- 88 -
ANNEX IV
Page 23 of 24
associated labour have elaborated their specific conservation programs by
type of energy source and location of consumption. All these programs are
already being implemented and have already had a positive impact on energy
conservation and substitution. The implementation of these programs is
already reflected in the reduction of the liquid fuel consumption of about
8% in comparison to 1979 and in the increased consumption of domestic coal
and gas of 8% and 4% respectively.
59.      With a view to accelerating the implementation of the programs for
the rationalization of energy consumption, we intend to apply to the World
Bank for a loan which would be used for preparing studies and elaborating
projects for conservation of imported energy and its substitution by
domestic energy resources. These studies would cover those organizations
of associated 1Lbour which are major consumers of energy and which would be
interested in such studies. The organizations would be selected in
consultation with the Bank. The studies would be prepared by
internationally experienced institutes which would do the job in
consultation with the Yugoslav party and in accordance with the terms of
reference to be completed by June 30, 1983 and initiated by September 30,
1983 at the latest. It is expected that the studies would be completed
within 12 months from the date of signing the contracts.
Agriculture
60.      In view of the importance of agriculture in our overall economic
adjustment strategy we have launched a number of initiatives to improve our
agricultural policy framework. Agricultural development issues received
particular attention in the context of the work of the Stabilization
Commission, and we expect to introduce a number of important measures to
modify our agricultural development strategy so as to reflect the revisions
of the 1981-85 five-year plan. Recently a study of the agro-processing
industry prepared under the Third Agricultural Credit Project was submitted
to the World Bank. We expect that the results of this study will be used
in preparing the revised medium-term plan for 1981-85 for agriculture and
we intend to establish teams of experts to study the problem of
agroindustrial capacity imbalance and prepare action programs for each
branch of agroindustry. It is our intention that these programs be
prepared in November 1983 so that the results of these studies could be
used for the adoption and implementation under the 1984 and 1985 planning
documents. In addition we are currently engaged in a joint study with the
World Bank on the question of primary production in Yugoslav agriculture.
The Bank participates in the financing of the study. Following the
completion of this study in DecemLber 1983, we will establish additional
working groups who will be responsible for preparing, by March 1984, a
program for the phased implementation of the recommendations of the said
study.



- 89 -
ANNEX IV
Page 24 of 24
Conclusion
61.      This Letter of DeveLopment Policy was prepared on the basis of
extensive and well-documented talks with World Bank missions which visited
Yugoslavia between February and April 1983, and in negotiations in
Washington in May 1983.  Through this letter we are requesting a loan for
the structural adjustment of the economy. We can conclude with a sense of
appreciation that a comprehensive and complex task has been accomplished to
the satisfaction of both parties. We would appreciate it if you considered
our request and lent it adequate support so as to make possible timely
approval of the structural adjustment loan which would be of vital
import.nce for the implementation of our program of economic stabilization.
Joze Florjancic
Federal Secretary for Finance
hay 25, 1983
Belgrade



- 90 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 11
YUGOSLAVIA - SAL
Export Development Fund
A.  Purpose:         To finance imported raw materials, intermediate goods and
spare parts for industrial exporters, and imported
components for exporters of turn-key industrial projects,
civil works, ships and capital goods, whose exports are
covered by export credit refinanced by the Yugoslav Bank
for International Economic Cooperation (YBIEC) 1/.
B.  hanager:         Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) (Associated Bank of
Belgrade), which is the Borrower of che World Bank loan.
C.  Subloan          All industrial enterprises of Yugoslavia ("work
Beneficiaries:  organizations of associated labor"), including
agro-industries, that can justify their ability to export
to convertible currency areas based on evidence of export
orders, contracts or distribution agreements and have
impiort requirements in convertible currency for production.
- indirect imports, i.e. imports of domestic suppliers of
exporters, will be eligible for financing. However
such indirect imports will be included in the list of
imports of the sub-borrower, who will be in all cases
the final exporter.
- Applications of potential exporters would provide
information on:
i) their financial statements for the past three years,
including their holdings of foreign exchange;
1/ - Raw materials and intermediate goods include unprocessed commodities and
semi-finished products to be processed in industrial facilities for
production.
- Spare parts shall be exclusively for existing machinery and equipment,
including appropriate stock of consumable parts which are subject to
regular replacement.
- Imported components for YBIEC customers include parts and pieces of
equipment and machinery which cannot be produced domestically and have
to be incorporated in turn-key industrial projects, civil works, ships
and capital goods in order to fulfill export order or contract
requirements.



- 91 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 11
ii) past export records, if any, export plans for the
next twelve months and firm export orders, export
contracts or distribution agreements, which vill
result in foreign exchange earnings in convertible
currencies. In case of exports through a trade
organization, copies of both the agreement between
the exporting enterprise and the trade organization
and the corresponding export orders of the trade
organization would be required;
iii) information on technical and managerial
capabilities, past production and production
capacity;
iv)  justification of raw material, intermediate good and
spare parts (direct or indirect) import
requirements, or imported component needs, and
production cycle, based on past and projected
operating accounts and input-output ratios.
v) agreed commercial arrangemuents, and payment terms of
planned exports;
vi)  proof of insurance against hazard incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods to
be paid out of EDF's resources; and
vii) exporters of turn-key projects, civil vorks, ships
and capital goods applying for the financing of
imported components shall be approved customers of
YBIEC for refinancing of long term export credit.
Eligible exporters' sub-loan applications shall be
processed on a first-come, first-served basis. Import
payments and import contracts made from April 1, 1983 will
be retroactively eligible-to the EDF (provided the World
Bank loan is approved before June 30, 1983). However, in
case of resource constraints in the EDF, a system will be
worked out whereby priority in obtaining EDF sub-loans
will be given to those enterprises that generate a ratio
of net foreign exchange earnings higher than a minimum
ratio to be established.  The minimum ratio will be .greed
with the World Bank.
D. Intermediaries - The EDF will be administered by UBB. UBB will
and Procedures;    establish a separate organizational unit for the



- 92 -
AkINEIv
Page 3 of 11
adAinistration of the EDF within its International
Department. The Unit will be directed by a head and
will be initially composed of three sections, one for
appraising sub-loan applications, one for processing
sub-loan disbursements and repayments and one for
reporting on the EDF activities. The section for
appraising sub-loan applications shall be initially
staffed vith at least five officers.
A Credit Committee of five members will be established,
including one representative of UBB Credit Board who
will be the chairman, two from the Federal Chamber of
Economy, and two from the Yugoslav Bank Association
(YA). The tmeership of the Credit Committee will be
reviewed after four months of operations of the EDF.
If it is evidenced that the composition of the Credit
Committee is hampering efficiency of the EDF
operations, its composition would be modified.
Sub-borrowers will apply to the EDF through their own
bank authorized to perform foreign exchange
transactions (basic bank or associated bank).
Sub-loans will be guaranteed by the authorized bank of
the sub-borrower, i.e. by its founders. Authorized
bAnks vill make a preliminary analysis of the
applications, undertake the evaluation work they need
to issue their s-arantee and transmit applications to
the Unit with their recommendations, or to YBIEC in the
case of exports refinanced by YBIEC. In case both the
basic bank and the associated bank of the applicant
have to be involved, applications would be first
processed by the basic bank, then simultaneously
transmitted to the Unit (or YBIEC) and to the
associated bank of the applicant.
The Unit or YBIEC will review applications with respect
in particular to the creditworthiness and financial
standing of the applicant, justification and commercial
viability of its export plans, quality of export
contracts or orders, technical and managerial
capability to achieve export targets, and justification
of import needs and production cycle. Applications
reviewed by YBIEC will be channelled by the Unit to the
Credit Committee.



- 93 -
ANN   V
Page 4 of 11
- Authorized banks, YBIEC and the Unit shall review and
process sub-loan applications each within a maximun
period of five working days upon receipt of
applications.
- Sub-loans will be formally approved or rejected by the
Credit Committee of the EDF, based on the
recommendations of the Unit or YBIEC. The Credit
Committee shall meet at least once a week.
- YBA will be informed by the Unit of all sub-loan
applications and sub-loan approvals on a quarterly
basis.
- Ihe Unit will administer sub-loan disbursements and
repaYments, the World Bank loan disbursements and
servicing and will be responsible for reporting to the
World Bank and for arranging audit of the EDF by
independent auditors (Section X).
E. Approval of      - A qualified applicant shall be notified of sub-loan
Qualifications;   approval by a comitment telex of the Unit. A sub-loan
agreement shall then be signed between UBB and the
sub-borrower, which will specify, among other
provisions, the amount of the sub-loan denominated in
U.S. dollars, a schedule of comitment fee, interest
rates, Dinar deposit and repayment terms, the sale of
foreign exchange to the EDF if any (Section L), the
period of availability of the sub-loan and a listing of
the goods authorized for fimnacing. Possible indirect
imports will be included in the listing as final
exporters vill be the only sub-borrowers under the
EDF. A letter of guarantee will be issued by the
authorized bank of the sub-borrower prior to sub-loan
agreement signing.
F. Sub-loan size; -  Sub-loans will amount to a maximum of 30 percent of
export orders, contracts or distribution agreements for
one year or $2 million, or $3 million per order or
contract refinanced by YBIEC, whichever is lower,
except as provided in Section L or as the World Bank
may agree. The amount of finaucing of imported
components for exports refinanced by YBIEC included in
any sub-loan shall not exceed 20 percent of the
corresponding export order or contract. The aggregated
amount of financing of imported components ,-or



- 94 -
AMNEX V
Page 5 of 11
- exporters refinanced by YBIEC shall not exceed 10
percent of the resources of the EDF at any time.
- The minimwnm size of sub-loans will be $25,000.
- An eligible export enterprise could benefit from
several sub-leans corresponding each to an export
order, contract or distribution agreement. However,
the net amount outstanding and disbursed from the EDF
to any single enterprise shall not exceed $5 oillion at
any time, except as defined in Section L or as the
World Bank may agree.
G. Sub-loan Terms  - The maturity of sub-loans will normally reflect the
and Interest       production cycle and the period for receiving actual
Rates:             export revenues. It will not exceed six months for
exports of consumer and intermediate goods, twelve
months for exports of capital goods, and eighteen
months for exports refinanced by YBIEC, except as
provided in Section L.
- The annual interest on sub-loans will be the 6 month
dollar LIBOR in effect on the day of the sub-loan telex
couwntment, to be paid in US Dollars, plus a spread of
2Z in US Dollars for the EDF to cover its risks of
losses and a spread of 1% in Dinar for the
intermediaries (0.6% for UBB and 0.4% for the authorized
bank of the sub-borrower; or 0.4% for UBB, 0.2% for
YBIEC and 0.4% for the authorized bank in the case of
YBIEC customers). Thus, the interest rate to be paid
by the sub-borrowers, will be the six month dollar
LIBOR plus three points. In addition, an annual
guarautee commission of about 0.4% of the sub-loan
amount will be paid in Dinar to the authorized bank.
In case the sub-loan interest rate established as above
would be lower than the applicable World Bank rate on
the day of the sub loan commitment, the spread of the
EDF, normally 2 percent, shall be increased to equalize
the sub loan interest rate with the World Bank
applicable rate.
R.  Commitment      A commitment fee in US dollars equal to the commitment fee
Fee;            or the World Bank, currently 0.75%, will be charged to
sub-borrowers on the undisbursed amount of sub-loans.
Once the World Bank loan is fully disbursed, the EDF shall
continue to charge a commitment fee of 0.75% to prevent



-95 -
ANNEXV
Page 6 of 11
slow disbursements of committed sub-loans and assure
optimum utilization of the EDF.
I. Dinar Deposit: Upon receipt of sub-loans, the sub-borrowers will make a
deposit in Dinars representing the equivalent of 10
percent of the amount of the sub-loans. These deposits
will be kept in a special account of the authorized banks
of the sub-borrowers and will be available for the EDF
operations. They will be returned to sub-borrowers upon
full repayment of sub-loans.
J. Loan and         -  The sub-borrower, having received a sub-loan commitment
Sub-loan           from EDF, shall request the foreign supplier to ship
Disbursements;    the related goods and shall request the Unit to make
payment for the goods on due date. The sub-borrower
will provide the Unit with copies of supporting
documents such as contracts, if any, invoices expressed
in convertible currencies, shipping documents, detailed
list of imported goods, including indirect imports,
statement describing efforts made to obtain the most
faverable terms possible from the foreign supplier.
For individual contracts costing less than $2 million,
normal procurement procedures of the purchaser will be
applied . International competitive bidding (ICB) will
be required for contracts above USS2 million in
accordance with the World Bankes procurement
guidelines. The Unit shall check the disbursement
request and related documents to determine that:
1) the goods and amounts to be imported are consistent
with the related sub-loan application;
2) appropriate procurement procedures have been
followed;
3) the price to be paid for the imported goods does not
appear excessive;
4) the unused and available balance stated in the
sub-loan commitment issued to the applicant is
sufficient to cover the amount of foreign excaange
to be disbursed; and
5) the supplier is eligible under the current edition
of the Bank guidelines.



- 96 -
ANEX V
Page 7 of 11
-  If the above items are satisfactory, the Unit shall
promptly disburse to the supplier (or its bank) in the
appropriate currency. The amount of the disbursement
will be den%ainated in US dollars. The prevailing
interbank exchange rate on the day of any calculation
or approval shall be used for all aspects of the
operation of the EDF.
-  In order to ensure that UBB will have ready access to
foreign exchange, especially during the start-up phase
of the EDF, a Special Account will be established
within UBB to which the Bank would make, upon request
of UBB, an initial revolving deposit of up to $30
million as soon as the loan is declared effective.
Thereafter, applications for reimbursement based on
appropriate supporting documentation shall be furnished
to the World Bank by the Unit from time to time.
K. Sub-loan         -  Interest and other charges on sub-loans will be paid
Repayments:        every six months and in full at the maturity date.
Sub-loans will be repaid in full at the maturity date.
Repayments, interest, and other charges will be
denominated in US dollars, except for the spread of 1
percent to the intermediaries and the guarantee
commission which vill be denominated in Dinar. To
'ensure proper repayment of sub-loans without delay,
there will be an agreement between UBB and the
authorized bank of the sub-borrower, and the
sub-borrower to repay sub-loan principal, interest and
other charges with priority over any other allocation
of foreign exchange. From the foreign exchange
proceeds of their exports, beneficiaries shall;
i) repay sub-loan pzincipal, interest and other charges
due to the EDF in foreign exchange (denominated in
US dollars);
ii) sell to the EDF the agreed portion (Section L) of
their foreign exchange earnings at the prevailing
official exchange rate; and
iii)  dispose of the balance of their foreign exchange
earnings in accordance with the regulations of, and
self-management agreements under the system of
foreign exchange allocation.



- 97 -
ANX V
Page 8 of 11
- In case of defaults or delays in sub-loan repayments to
the EDF. the Credit Cormittee would be entitled to
withhold approvals of further applications from the
customers of the concerned authorized bank. In
addition sub-loan agreements with sub-borrowers shall
provide for a penalty interest of 4 percent on late
payments.
L. Repayment of the World Bank Loan and
ReplenishmentlIncrease of the EDF:
- The World Bank loan will be repaid out of the Export
Development Fund. The foreign exchange risk related to
the currency pooling scheme of the World Bank shall be
borne by the EDF.
- It is the policy of the Federal Government and the
comon interest of all Yugoslav industrial exporters
and potential exporters that the volume of the proposed
EDF be not only mantained but even iucreased over
time. The EDF could thus become the nucleus of a
foreign exchange market which would greatly facilitate
imports of Yugoslav industry in the long run. To
ensure proper repayment of the World Bank loan without
depleting the EDF and maintain growth in the volume of
the EDF over time, a mechanism, whereby beneficiaries
of sub-loans will sell on a voluntary basis a suall
portion of their foreign exchange earnings to the EDF,
against Dinars, will be established. This mechanism
will be based on a system of incentives consisting of a
scaling up of sub-loan maturities, sub-loan amounts and
maximum exposure to the EDF for a single enterprise,
corresponding to the sale of foreign exchange to the
EDF by beneficiaries for the equivalent of 5 percent,
or 10 percent of the sub-loan they received, in
addition to sub-loan repayment and interest 1/. The
1/ Assuming an average sub-loan maturity of 12 months, under present levels
of six-month dollar Libor and World Bank interest rate, and taking into
account the World Bank loan terms applicable to Yugoslavia (15 years
maturity including 3 years grace) and the spread of the EDF, the sale to
the EDF cf an average of 7 percent of sub-loans in foreign exchange for a
minimm of seven years would be sufficient to increase the volume of the
EDF by more than 5 percent a year. After seven years the EDF would
generate its own growth from the difference between its interest earnings
(on a larger volume of funds), including its spread, and interest and
principal paid on the World Bank loan.



- 98 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 11
equivalent of 10 percent of a sub-loan would represent
a maximum of 5 percent of the corresponding export
earnings for a given exporter, to be provided out of
its foreign exchange retention rights. In the maximum
case, sub-loans would amount to 50 percent (against 30
percent in the base case) of export orders, contracts
or distribution agreements , allowing beneficiaries of
the EDF, under average conditions of export/output and
imported input/output ratios, to finance import
requirements for their entire production, i.e. for
export and the domestic market.
- The incentives will be as follows:
Sub-loan
Max munm Z
of export
Sale of     order,
Foreign     contract                                     Maximum olutstanding
Exchange    or distri-   Max. amount    Max. maturity  and disbursed amount
by Sub-     bution        in $ million      in months       per sub-borrower
Borrower    agireement   (1)  (2)   (3)   (1)  (2)   (3)    in $ million
0           30       2.0  2.0   3.0    6   12    18             5.0
5 percent of
sub-loan        40       2.5  2.5   3.5    9   15    21             6.0
10 percent of
sub-loan        50       3.0  3.0   4.0   12   18    24             7.0
(1)  exporters of consumer goods and intermediates
(2) exporters of capital goods
(3) exporters under export credit refinanced by YBIEC
- Mie agreed amount (5 or 10 percent of the sub-loan
amount) of sale of foreign exchange to the EDF by a
given sub-borrower upon sub-loan maturity will be
stipulated in the sub-loan agreement between UBB and
the sub-borrower.



- 99 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 11
The Dinar equivalent to the acquisition of foreign
extaange by the EDF will be provided out of the Dinar
deposits made by the sub-borrowers (Section J), in a
revolving manner,- and out of Dinar borrowings made by
the EDF. In the coming two years, a mechanism will be
established whereby volontary Dinar long-term deposits
will be made to the EDF by sub-borrowers through their
authorized banks. These long term deposits, as well as
borrowings made by the EDF, could be denominated in
foreign exchange since they will be used to buy foreign
exchange from sub-borrowers.
M. Reporting Requirements:
-  The first ten applications and the Unit appraisals will
be communicated ex post to the Bank. Thereafter, they
would be provided as the Bank may request.
-  The Unit shall send to the World Bank a quarterly
statistical report concerning the operations of the EDF
during the preceeding quarter.
This report shall include the following information.
a. Name, location and branch of activity of
sub-borrower;
b. Sub-loan amount and terms;
c. Destination of planned exports and type of goods and
projects;
d. Sub-loan disbursements during quarter;
e. Sub-loans repayments during quarter and defaults, if
any;
f. Sale of foreign exchange to the EDF by beneficiaries
during quarter and financial position of the EDF; and
g. Dinar long term deposits made to the EDF by
sub-borrowers.
Such quarterly reports will be provided for the first
three years of operations of the EDF. Thereafter, only
semi-annual reports covering items d. e. f. and g. will
be provided until repayment of the World Bank loan.
-  UBB shall arrange for an independent audit of the
transactions under the EDF once a year. As agreed in
general with the World Bank, the auditor can be SDK.
The audit report would be submitted to the World Bank
six months after the end of the fiscal year.



- 100 -
ANNEX V
Page 11 of 11
N. Exchange of Views:
- The eligibility criteria, procedures, interest rates,
spread, sub-loan terms and system of incentives of the
EDF will be reviewed with the World Bank after four
months and again after one year, and corrected as
appropriate to ensure optimuu utilization of, and
appropriate increase in the EDF.
- Until full repayment of the Bank loan, any proposed
change iu institutional setting, criteria, procedures,
sub-loan terms and system of incentives of the EDF
shall be reviewed with the World Bank prior to
implementation.



14; }<ir-Sw -.  --                                                                                   t 
le        ... .                                                                                          -                  -                                  -
C          -        \            X                           )
SEP
LJIIILJAU           I   MTAI               MA                .. rS                                                                                                 F
.7%~~~~~~~~~~~~RIJ^5                                                                                      aRAVsI(AsLAr/
Ill~~ ~                          IbElA.SNO R                                                                                                                      V  
-op ~ ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      I
-.      - OHARLHS                                         T*     lvim tE                                                             a
--sA                                                                                                                      -      .. N  Lls.
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~tpd                                                    '                                           VI                OiC ESARCTRTN 
-eLA                           -                                                                                                                     -Ml   ,-LAE
E V ^t                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- EASE
Po~          -
orREw RDSS * ag N 3" -''-' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SORE
NM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
BENI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a NNs
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE ~
IAL.WAVS.                                                                                                           ms
--         TsmERNATIO.IArt.AJIO  GAUGE
OTHER STANDARD CAL"
C."o,      IEILWAYSTATIOUI
-     - -  PUOSED NEW URGeS
.          3 kVl DC ELECTRIC TRACTION
- --   k5V AC ELECTRIC TRACTION
RAVIGABLE CARiES
-            AVIEABLECARAESUNDIEENCONSTRUcEn
SEAPORTSsi                                                                      {       
IWAROPOAI NIMS
IRTENAIES OF EOAIINSASS WOMSPtONI
IIMRNATIOt mOtMrme



IBRD 13136R
YtI fltAVIA
Mft-~~~~~~~~N
t-     >.7                -    ltw              n   X           S             {  I    U a  G AR I-
V% 4L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~q*    *%-
1          -.                                                  T*IN&IA  ~~      ~  INICI
RIK~~~~~~  IM~~~~~IC2O MI
MI                      wrw   *              CV SAD.e
-- St..>+J 
I?'~~~~~~I
1 -   TUAVR M                                                       TK AREiI
j           EU                                                                      0       S    R      r 
|   2   St   G[V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R             C I<i
:BULGARIA
1|i.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L r   <O) 
AKAUSKA                                               alWA                     EKV
PLOUT( 
b-                   &TINA~~~~~1K*   -          tPEKE 
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



