                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                    Report No:ICR0000131




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-45170)

                                ON A

                    LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF
                        US$ 294.4 MILLION

                              TO THE

                     REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                 FOR

 MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION
                              PROJECT




                             June 7, 2007




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
World Bank Office: Ankara
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective February 6, 2007)

              Currency Unit = New Turkish Lira (TRY)
                         TRY 1.00 = US$ 0.71
                        US$ 1.00 = TRY 1.41

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 ­ December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARIP     Agricultural Reform Implementation Project
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
GDCD     General Directorate for Civil Defense
GDDA     General Directorate for Disaster Affairs
GDI      General Directorate for Insurance
GDLRC    General Directorate for Land Registration and Cadastre
GOT      Government of Turkey
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISMEP    Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project
ISR      Implementation Status Report
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
MERLIS   Marmara Earthquake Region Land Information System
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MPWS     Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
TA       Technical Assistance
TCIP     Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool
TEFER    Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project
TEMAD    Turkish Emergency Management Agency



                     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                   Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
                    Sector Manager: Marjory-Anne Bromhead
                 Task Team Leader: Wael Zakout
                  ICR Team Leader: Jolanta Kryspin-Watson

                                               TURKEY
              Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 27
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 28
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 32
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 34
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Marmara Earthquake
Country:                Turkey                Project Name:         Emergency
                                                                    Reconstruction Project
Project ID:             P068368               L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-45170
ICR Date:               06/07/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                   Borrower:
                                                                    TURKEY
Original Total
                        USD 505.0M            Disbursed Amount:     USD 294.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Prime Ministry PIU
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/25/1999    Effectiveness:       12/29/1999         12/29/1999
Appraisal:             10/11/1999    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/16/1999    Mid-term Review:                        09/14/2003
                                     Closing:             05/31/2005         12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              25                  15
Health                                                           1                  2
Housing construction                                           47                  56
Law and justice                                                  2                  2
Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                                                               25                  25
savings


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Health system performance                                     Primary           Secondary
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                       Secondary          Secondary
Land administration and management                            Primary           Secondary
Law reform                                                    Primary           Secondary
Natural disaster management                                   Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Ulrich Zachau                    Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:           Marjory-Anne Bromhead            Joseph R. Goldberg
Project Team Leader:      Wael Zakout                      Piotr M. Wilczynski
ICR Team Leader:          Jolanta Kryspin-Watson
ICR Primary Author:      Jolanta Kryspin-Watson




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objectives are to help restore the living conditions in the region of Turkey that
was affected by the August 17, 1999 Marmara earthquake, support economic recovery
and resumption of growth, and develop an institutional framework for disaster risk
management and mitigation.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
               Living conditions in Marmara region are resumed after the August 17, 1999
Indicator 1 :  earthquake, and institutional framework for disaster risk management and
               mitigation is improved.
                                          About 12,000
                                          housing units                        Reconstruction of

                                          reconstructed;                       12,299 urban and

                                          central disaster                     rural housing with

               Destruction of urban and management                             on and off-site
                                                                               infrastructure
Value          rural houses; no           agency fully                         completed;
quantitative orcatastrophe insurance      operational and                      TEMAD
Qualitative)   mechanism; no central      equipped with
               capable emergency          adequate                             established and

               management agency.         information and                      operating; Turkish

                                          communication                        Catastrophe

                                          tools; catastrophe                   Insurance Pool

                                          insurance                            (TCIP) is effective

                                          established.                         and sustainable.

Date achieved 11/01/1999                  05/31/2006                           12/31/2006
Comments       72% of achievement. Majority of physical deliverables, such as housing
(incl. %       reconstruction, the basic institutional set-up, the operational center for disaster
achievement)   management, along with some legal framework, has been accomplished.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                          Achieved at
                                                approval           Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  National capacity to respond to and prepare for natural disaster is strengthened.
Value          No national emergency      Creation of a                        TEMAD is



                                                iii

(quantitative   coordination agency.       national                           established and
or Qualitative)                            emergency                          staffed. The
                                           management                         operations center
                                           agency equipped                    was constructed and
                                           with an operations                 the emergency
                                           center,                            management
                                           communications                     information system
                                           and data networks,                 software completed.
                                           and with staff well
                                           trained in
                                           emergency
                                           management.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2006

Comments        40% achieved. The central agency was established, equipped and is currently

(incl. %        recognized in Turkey as the emergency response coordinating organization.

achievement)    However, many of activities originally envisaged under the component were not
                completed.

Indicator 2 :   Government financial exposure to seismic risk is reduced via sustainable
                catastrophe insurance mechanism.

                                           Viable financial                   The TCIP is
Value                                                                         established,
(quantitative   TCIP does not exist.       mechanism for                      sustainable and
or Qualitative)                            risk transfer is
                                           established.                       successfully
                                                                              operating.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2006

Comments        80% achieved. Sustainable mechanism for risk transfer was established and its

(incl. %        effectiveness already tested in a number of smaller earthquakes. The penetration

achievement)    rate (20%) remains below expectations, though as high as in Japan and
                California.
Indicator 3 :   Vulnerability of Marmara region to potential future disasters is reduced.
                                                                              Pilot microzonation
                                           Urban                              studies feed into the
                                           development                        planning and

Value           Constructions in risk      planning takes into                development

(quantitative   prone areas; building      account natural                    standards; building

or Qualitative) codes are violated.        disaster risks and                 inspection system
                                           is based on                        strengthened;
                                           adequate studies                   building and
                                           and data.                          retrofitting code
                                                                              revised.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                   12/31/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments        50% achieved. While a number of pilot studies and development of the
(incl. %        regulatory framework were carried out, the enforcement remains a long-term,
achievement)    unfinished agenda.

Indicator 4 :   Reliable, modern land information system for Marmara region developed and
                operational.
Value           Outdated land              Cadastre                           Cadastre renovation
(quantitative   information system;        renovation in                      completed through
or Qualitative) obsolete registers and     Marmara region                     densification of



                                                iv

               maps.                       completed.                       geodetic network,
                                                                            new cadastre and
                                                                            renovation for 194
                                                                            villages completed;
                                                                            maps produced for
                                                                            3 cities; digitization
                                                                            completed;
                                                                            MERLIS
                                                                            established; 5
                                                                            district offices
                                                                            constructed and
                                                                            equipped.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                   12/31/2006                       12/31/2006

Comments        100% achieved the goal through renovation of the cadastre system,

(incl. %        reconstruction of offices and creation and operation of modern land information

achievement)    system. The project also initiated a country-wide modernization of land
                information system.
Indicator 5 :   The health care system response to emergencies in Marmara region is improved.
                                                                            National Mental
                                                                            Health Strategy
                                                                            finalized;
                                                                            information
                                                                            campaign
                                                                            completed;

                Very low awareness of      Raised awareness                 emergency medical

Value           mental health issues;      on mental health                 response services

(quantitative   insufficient equipment of  consequences of                  strengthened

or Qualitative) the medical emergency      disasters; better                through

                teams.                     medical response                 procurement of
                                           to emergencies.                  necessary
                                                                            equipment for
                                                                            Command and
                                                                            Control Centers in
                                                                            9 provinces and for
                                                                            National Medical
                                                                            Rescue Teams.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                   12/31/2006                       12/31/2006
Comments        65% achieved. The project built a foundation for better awareness of mental
(incl. %        health issues in Turkey. The capacity of emergency medical response has been
achievement)    strengthened; however, improvement in the response was not measured.
Indicator 6 :   Urban and rural houses are reconstructed.
                                                                            11,502 urban, 797
                                                                            rural housing units
                                           12,000 urban and                 reconstructed to
Value                                      rural housing are                seismic resilience
(quantitative   0 units reconstructed.     reconstructed and                standards; people
or Qualitative)                            people well                      settled in high
                                           settled.                         quality settlements.
                                                                            In addition, 17
                                                                            health facilities


                                                 v

                                                                             were constructed.
Date achieved 11/01/1999                    12/31/2006                       12/31/2006
Comments       100% achieved through the reconstruction of housing and social facilities in the
(incl. %       earthquake affected areas, built to the high seismic standards and provided with
achievement)   off-site infrastructure, site management, amenities, etc.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                  DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     12/14/1999            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     02/22/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    15.05
  3     06/27/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    55.28
  4     09/18/2000            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                    55.28
  5     03/15/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   109.06
  6     04/12/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   130.38
  7     07/06/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   153.07
  8     12/14/2001            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   180.12
  9     06/11/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   197.01
  10    12/24/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   197.58
  11    06/04/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   204.87
  12    11/11/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   204.87
  13    05/10/2004            Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                  204.87
  14    05/11/2004            Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                  204.87
  15    11/11/2004            Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                  213.03
  16    01/04/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   214.53
  17    05/31/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   220.64
  18    11/09/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   229.13
  19    03/01/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   250.64
  20    07/11/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   279.90
  21    10/17/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   287.09



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

On August 17, 1999 an earthquake measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale devastated the
Marmara region of Turkey. Over 15,000 lives were lost, about 200,000 people were left
homeless, and Turkey's industrial heartland was extensively damaged. International
support for Turkey for the immediate relief effort was rapid and generous. However, a
major reconstruction effort and recovery plan was needed, in addition to a mechanism to
reduce the costs of future natural disasters in the country.

An assessment undertaken by the Bank to outline the likely impact of the earthquake on
the economy and the cost of reconstruction and recovery estimated the total fiscal burden
arising from the earthquake to be in the range of US$1.8-2.2 billion. The largest direct
cost to the budget, estimated to be in the range of US$740 million to US$1.2 billion,
came from reconstruction and repair of damage to the housing stock of the region. Costs
from infrastructure replacement and rehabilitation were estimated to add a further
US$450 million.

In addition to the physical and social damages, the gravity of the event pointed out the
need for upgrading the existing emergency response system, the lack of effective
enforcement of Turkey's building codes and the inadequate coverage of earthquake
insurance in the housing sector.

At the request of and in cooperation with the Government of Turkey (GOT) and other
international donors, the Bank led the preparation of a framework program as a
comprehensive response to the August 17 Marmara earthquake. The Bank-financed
elements of this program comprised the Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction
project (MEER). Implementation of the program was supported by the Bank and other
co-financiers, mainly the European Investment Bank which financed construction of
permanent housing in other than Bank project-supported localities, business rehabilitation,
rebuilding and repair of key infrastructure and lifelines.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main objectives of the framework program were to help restore the living conditions
in the region of Turkey that was affected by the August 17, 1999 Marmara earthquake,
support economic recovery and resumption of growth, and develop an institutional
framework for disaster risk management and mitigation.

The key performance indicators were the following:
    · Timely replacement of housing units;



                                              1

    · Reducing the likelihood of damage to physical infrastructure and housing in the
        event of future earthquakes, especially in most recent construction; and
    · Prompt recovery of the social sector.

It should be noted that the above project development objective and its indicators were
meant for an entire framework program. MEER project specific objectives, as elaborated
in the PAD, were to build a sustainable emergency management response system as a
way to reduce the future impact of earthquakes on the country, by establishing a
competent emergency management agency, a disaster insurance scheme and improving
land use management and enforcement of building codes and to re-establish normal
living conditions in the areas hit by the earthquake by supporting a trauma program for
adults and reconstructing new houses.

The format currently used in the ISR and ICR differs from the results framework of 1999,
when the project was approved and was adjusted to reflect better the intermediate
outcome indicators rather than outputs of the project. The outcome indicators used to
monitor project implementation are presented in section F of this document and are the
following:

    · National capacity to respond to and prepare for natural disaster is strengthened.
    · Government financial exposure to seismic risk is reduced via a sustainable
        catastrophe insurance mechanism.
    · Vulnerability of Marmara region to potential future disasters is reduced.
    · Reliable, modern land information system for Marmara region developed and
        operational.
    · The health care system response to emergencies in Marmara region is improved.
    · Urban and rural houses are reconstructed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Not applicable.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The primary beneficiary of the project was the population affected by the Marmara
earthquake which was in acute need of housing and infrastructure and more broadly, in
need breaking the dependency cycle of life in the temporary camps. This was achieved
through the construction of urban and rural housing units and associated public
infrastructure, and the health care centers for the affected population.




                                              2

Turkey at large was another beneficiary of the project which aimed to: (i) strengthen the
capacity of the government to respond to natural disasters; and (ii) develop a national
insurance scheme which would decrease the financial burden of future reconstruction
from the individual families and the government to the new Turkish Catastrophe
Insurance Pool, international re-insurers and capital markets.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The following are the components originally envisaged under the project:

Component A - Disaster Response System and Risk Mitigation
The component supported substantial institutional and regulatory reforms and capacity
building measures to upgrade the country's ability to respond more effectively to natural
disasters, to reduce future risk and financial liability, and to improve land use planning
and building code enforcement practices. The following were main sub-components:

Al: Emergency Management and Response System. The objective of this sub-component
was to create a comprehensive emergency management organization (Turkish Emergency
Management Agency) focusing on the coordination and integration of risk reduction,
preparedness, response, and recovery. This sub-component was to finance the design and
implementation of a restructured emergency management and response system through
institutional strengthening activities for disaster prevention, mitigation, planning and
public awareness. Funds for a headquarters building in Ankara, sophisticated equipment
for this complex, and equipment packages for regional sites all across Turkey were
included in this component.

A.2: Disaster Insurance Scheme. The principal development objective of this sub-
component was to support the government's Earthquake Insurance Program with the
view of establishing and expanding national catastrophic risk management and risk
transfer capabilities. To meet these objectives, the sub-component intended to create an
insurance mechanism, which would make liquidity readily available to insured owners of
residential dwellings destroyed or damaged by an earthquake for the purpose of their
repairing or replacement; reduce government fiscal exposure and the risk to the national
economy due to major earthquakes; ensure the financial solvency of the Pool after all but
the most catastrophic of events; and reduce government financial dependence on the
Bank and other donors' financial assistance in the aftermath of major earthquakes.

A3: Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes. This sub-component's
objective was to reduce the physical vulnerability of the Marmara region to natural
hazards and future disaster losses in Turkey through support to: (i) the review of ongoing
modifications in the current legal system and additional modifications as required, and
(ii) the strengthening of the municipal capability to regulate, plan and implement disaster
resistant development.

A4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management. The primary objective of this sub-
component was to establish a land information system to support the reconstruction and
development of the Marmara region. In particular, the sub-component was to support


                                            3

activities to: (i) supply current and reliable land ownership information to cope with the
post-earthquake situation, and update and improve the obsolete registers and maps; (ii)
facilitate land supply operations, with emphasis on housing schemes and the overall
improvement of the land market.

Component B - Trauma Program for Adults. This component was designed to finance the
development of a trauma program for adults to complement the UNICEF/Ministry of
Education program for children. The objectives were to contribute to the immediate
reduction of the negative effects on health and functional ability among adults affected by
the earthquake, including the restoration of normalized living and working conditions in
the affected area, support the strengthening of community mental health services,
ensuring that the whole country is better prepared for future disasters, and to support the
reconstruction of working life and the reinsertion of adults into the workforce in the
earthquake zone.

Component C - Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu, Kocaeli and Yalova. The
main objective of this component was to assist the Government of Turkey in
reconstructing permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected by the earthquake.
Assistance under this project was limited to the collapsed and heavily damaged rural
housing and urban multi family units, to be implemented under controlled and sound
construction practices, utilizing appropriate cost effective design standards which would
protect against future seismic events. The component financed technical assistance,
design, supervision, training and investments.

Component D - Project Management. The component financed costs of expanding and
maintaining the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU), set up for the TEFER
(Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery) project, and its local offices during
the implementation period.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not substantially revised but some changes in the scope,
allocations and activities were introduced, as described in section 1.7 below.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
In December 2001, after less than a year of project implementation, based on feed-back
from the project building sites and a request from the Government, it was decided that the
project should also provide funding for the construction of health posts and medical
equipment and supplies. After reallocation and amendment of the Loan Agreement, the
project financed under component C the construction of health facilities in Bolu, Kocaeli,
Yalova, Düzce and Sakarya.

Later, following the mid-term review of September 2003, taking into account actual
performance under various components and expected financing needs over the remaining
life of the project, the proceeds of the loan were reallocated again. Notably, due to long


                                              4

delays in implementation of Emergency Management component A.1, the original
allocation was reduced by about $52 million. These delays stemmed from the complex
institutional set-up in Turkey for disaster risk management which MEER was to reform
through creation and support to TEMAD, intended to be a single agency responsible for
coordinating preparedness, planning and response efforts. Traditionally, these functions
were divided mainly between the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) under
the Ministry of Public Works and Settlements and the General Directorate of Civil
Defense (GDCD) under the Ministry of Interior. The project was to support fusion of
their functions and, potentially, of relevant activities in other agencies, and vesting them
in TEMAD. Despite the early signs of political will to carry out such a restructuring in
the aftermath of the Marmara earthquake, this commitment was not further manifested
and TEMAD was institutionally too weak to carry out originally foreseen investments.
Eventually, a more modest headquarters was designed and built, releasing a large block
of funds for other purposes, including the below.

The reallocation of an additional US$80 million to the insurance contingency facility,
which was allocated US$100 million at project start-up, was made to accelerate the
process of further reserve accumulation and to allow TCIP (Turkish Catastrophic
Insurance Pool) to withstand major catastrophic events in the early years, and, at the same
time, improve the creditworthiness of the pool.

In addition, a new sub-component to support the preparation of feasibility studies of a
comprehensive flood management scheme for Bartin city was included in the project.
This sub-component was a follow-up on the work initiated under the TEFER (Emergency
Flood and Earthquake Recovery )1 project to reduce vulnerability of Bartin to disasters.
As the government priorities changed, the sub-component was later dropped.

The reallocation also made funding available to finance feasibility studies to support the
preparation of the Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project
(ISMEP), approved by the Board in May 2005. Istanbul is the site of greatest probable
damage from earthquake in the entire Europe and Central Asia Region, and thus deserved
a separate program.

Following the mid-term review, activities under component B shifted focus from the
mental health issues arising from post-catastrophe trauma to strengthening capacities of
the health sector to respond to disasters and other emergencies. As a result, additional
funds were allocated to that component.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes




1The objectives of TEFER project were to (i) restore basic infrastructure in municipalities and rural areas
affected by 1998 floods; (ii) provide assistance to restore housing in the 1998 earthquake affected province
of Adana; and (iii) reduce vulnerability to future floods and earthquakes. The project closed on June 30,
2003.




                                                       5

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The quality at entry was satisfactory. At the request of the Government of Turkey the
Bank team was dispatched to the field within a week of the devastating earthquake to
assist Turkey in responding to this disaster, which drew the attention of the whole world,
bringing generous international support for immediate relief. The preparation of this
large and complex project took a record short time (3 months), encompassing both the
reconstruction and recovery activities, and disaster risk mitigation and emergency
preparedness.

In the aftermath of the disaster, the Bank reallocated $267 million from 8 existing loans
and then, prepared the Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan (EERL; US$252 million)
providing financing for urgent import needs and budgetary support, and the MEER
project for the reconstruction and preparedness. MEER project was prepared within the
framework of a comprehensive program totaling US$1,796.75 million, out of which
US$505 million was financed by the Bank. The project was developed by the Bank in
cooperation with other donors, such as UNDP, the European Union, the European
Investment Bank, and a wide range of government institutions: ministries, technical
agencies, provincial and municipal authorities.         Its design reflected the findings of
assessments and surveys carried out during project preparation.

The preparatory team comprised experts from multiple fields, both external and from
within the Bank, bringing international best practice from the countries similarly prone to
disasters. During preparation, lessons from previous post-disaster operations in Turkey
and world-wide were taken into consideration and reflected in the design. The MEER
project was preceded by two earlier Turkey disaster recovery operations, i.e., Erzincan
Emergency Earthquake and Reconstruction (1992) and Emergency Flood and Earthquake
Recovery (1998) projects. These two operations not only provided valuable lessons but
also a good basis for implementation of an innovative approach in the Turkey context
with respect to hazard risk mitigation, strengthening of disaster response capacity,
creation of an emergency management information system as well as the establishment of
a catastrophe insurance scheme. The design of the housing component was also guided
by the experience from these projects. Lessons learnt from these operations allowed for
much better estimation of reconstruction needs (previous projects, especially the Erzincan,
resulted in over-building of the housing units), more diverse housing designs, strong
focus on the social infrastructure and site amenities, and sites management. In addition,
MEER project implementation arrangements were taking advantage of some tested
solutions under the previous projects.         The PIU structure was sustained, using the
experienced implementation team.            Its leverage and coordination capability was
strengthened by positioning the unit under the Prime Ministry's Office. Also, the legal
and operational arrangements with the various government agencies, implementing their
respective components, were further streamlined and more precisely defined.

Most of the assumptions, risks and external factors were well identified.                 These
particularly concerned the legislative revisions and the reconstruction program. However,


                                                6

the project failed to anticipate the degree of institutional resistance and political difficulty
entailed in introducing changes in the emergency management set-up and redistribution
of ministerial responsibilities in this area. One reason for this was control of different
ministries by different parties the then ruling coalition. The failure to foresee the political
risk can be attributed to the perception of the government's initial very strong
commitment to carry out wide-sweeping reforms of the disaster management system.
The weaknesses of the initial institutional set-up were obvious taking into account
inadequate coordination of response, planning and preparedness which came clearly to
light in the Marmara earthquake. As further explained, while the Turkish Emergency
Management Agency (TEMAD) was formally created in 2000, its ability to fully function
as designed still falls below expectations thus, undermining one of the key objectives of
the project. Most importantly, the time required to build a new, strong coordination
agency was seriously underestimated. The failure to anticipate this risk was addressed
during the implementation of the project through the continuous engagement in a dialog
on this issue between the Bank team, strongly supported by the country management unit,
and the government counterparts, including the highest level state authorities.

Overall, while designing the project and Emergency Management component in
particular, the team took a "revolutionary" approach to institutional reforms.                  In
retrospect, support to "evolutionary" and incremental changes in the way hazard risk
management functions are performed could have been a valid alternative. Either way,
establishing an effective and well-coordinated institutional framework and strengthening
the capacity for disaster management was not likely to be achieved within one project
cycle.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)
During project implementation and after the mid-term review several changes were
introduced which were mainly responding to the slow implementation of component A.1
(Emergency Management) and savings in the housing reconstruction program, on the one
hand, and needs in other areas of the project, on another. An increased allocation was
mainly made for the contingency funding under the insurance program, which ensured
favorable re-insurance conditions for the pool.


(i)   reduction by half in financing of the institutional support component (A.1), from
      US$95.01 to US$42.08 million;

(ii)  increased funding of the insurance program under component A.2 from US$144
      million to US$220.61 million, including additional allocation of US$80 million to
      the National Catastrophic Insurance Program;

(iii) additional support of US$3.91 million to the Ministry of Public Works and
      Settlements (MPWS) to carry out studies on the development of a legal framework
      for urban planning and code enforcement under component A.3;




                                               7

(iv) additional funds for pilot municipalities sub-component A3.2 to finance technical
       preparatory work (feasibility studies) for the Istanbul region, in the amount of
       US$10.7 million;

(v)    allocation of US$2 million for a feasibility study for a flood protection scheme in
       Bartin, including the preparation of environmental and social assessments, as an
       additional component of the project (later dropped at the request of the
       government);

(vi) new funding of US$6.97 million for strengthening capacity of emergency health
       stations and command control centers, under component B;

(vii) reduced allocation for the earlier completed housing reconstruction by about
       US$45.05 million;

(viii) inclusion of additional site works carried over from the Emergency Flood and
       Earthquake Recovery Project (TEFER) of US$6 million;

(ix) allocation of US$13.3 million for pilot building retrofitting works in Istanbul
      region; and

(x)   reduction by US$2.4 million in the allocation for project management, component
       D.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As originally designed, the Monitoring and Evaluation framework seemed to better
define inputs and outputs, than broader project outcomes and their indicators. This
concentration on tangibles and outputs, as much as or more than on ultimate long-term
outcomes, is justified in this disaster emergency project, considering the very nature of
the emergencies in question where it is tangible improvements (compared with the
"without" counterfactual) that account for a large part of the immediate positive impact of
disaster recovery activities.

Where the longer-term outcomes were provided, they were more difficult to evaluate, e.g.,
Annex 1 of PAD (Logframe) states as one of the key performance indicators: "reduction
of damages to physical infrastructure and housing in the event of future earthquakes".
This indicator can be only verified following earthquake in the project area.

As for the M&E process and tools, the implementation of M&E was carried out by the
PIU and consultants in the specific subject areas. Particularly sound data were collected
for the housing reconstruction part of the project. For this purpose, PIU staff made
frequent site visits and contracted studies (e.g., on needs for additional social
infrastructure; participation in rural housing reconstruction; compensation of the resettled
population; off-site infrastructure, etc.). The results of these M&E efforts constituted
bases for adjustments, such as: inclusion in the project of the construction of health
facilities supplied with medical materials and equipment; creation at the sites of paths,



                                              8

sport fields, playgrounds and other common spaces; grassing of slopes, building stairs,
guardrails and other landscaping works; or support to the site management system, etc.
An early feedback from the housing reconstruction beneficiaries, received during the
public meetings led also to some changes and adjustments in the units' designs. The
M&E activities of the PIU and consultant reports resulted in additional public outreach
efforts to the beneficiaries of the rural housing reconstruction program. As part of this
outreach, a monthly newsletter was published and distributed at the MEER project sites.
From the Bank side, the continuous supervision and the mission reports provided input to
the M&E efforts. The project monitoring and evaluation by both the Borrower and Bank
team pointed to the need for the reallocations and necessary adjustments made during
implementation (see sections 1.7 and 2.2).


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was developed and implemented in a full compliance with applicable Bank
safeguard policies, i.e., regarding environmental assessment and involuntary resettlement.
With regard to the latter, during the preparation stage, the sites proposed by the
Government for the urban housing construction were planned to be on public land but
early on in the implementation phase, it became clear that some expropriation would be
necessary. As a result, the Bank team did its due diligence and engaged in the process to
ensure compliance with O.P. 4.12, including development of and adherence to the
Resettlement Plan and a close supervision of the compensation process. As part of the
monitoring of compliance with Bank Resettlement Policy, studies were carried out
(compensation assessment and socio-economic baseline survey, and impact assessment of
the expropriation) and regular visits to sites were made by the PIU's social scientist. The
compensation mechanism and the progress were very closely monitored through the
system set up between the PIU, the General Directorate for Disaster Affairs and the
Ministry of Finance, tracking the release of funds and outstanding payments.

The environmental safeguards were closely monitored by the PIU, its local branches and
Bank team, through reviews of compliance with the Environmental Management Plan
(EMP). The PIU provided training in environmental aspects to the contractors, and the
PIU staff had constant presence at the construction sites. Monthly environmental reports
were prepared and submitted to the Bank for review. Both the PIU and the Bank were
actively involved in assuring high environmental standards of the reconstruction. This is
well exemplified by establishment of a sewage plant at Golcuk to ensure an adequate
treatment of sewage from the project site before discharge into the Bay of Izmit. Also, as
a result of site monitoring, additional erosion control measures were taken, e.g.,
construction of retaining walls, drainage channels, etc. Towards the end of the project
and in accordance with new Turkish regulatory requirements, a comprehensive study to
assess environmental impact of all reconstruction works was carried out.

Compliance with fiduciary requirements was satisfactory. With regard to Procurement,
the project benefited from considerable experience of the PIU's and Bank Office's staff
in previous Bank emergency operations in Turkey. Ex-ante and ex-post reviews were


                                                 9

carried out and properly documented.            Also, Financial Management reviews were
conducted regularly and audit reports were delivered on time, evaluated and discussed
with the PIU. Both Bank Procurement and Financial Management staff were very
actively involved in project supervision.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
The housing reconstruction program was completed after two years of project
implementation and the sites by now are well established and maintained. The other
activities initiated under the project are being continued, carried on and maintained by the
government agencies (e.g., TCIP, MERLIS ­ Marmara Earthquake Region Land
Information System, new and renovated cadastral offices, health facilities, emergency
management information and communication systems, enhanced medical command and
control centers, emergency health centers, etc.).

The establishment of TEMAD was an important step towards building institutional
capacity for emergency management. Nonetheless, Turkey continues to face institutional
challenges in coordinating disaster management at the national level. The government
recognizes the lack of institutional coordination at the central level and the importance of
further strengthening of provincial emergency management functions. Nonetheless,
uncertainties over the political will to create an effective institutional arrangement for
disaster risk management coordination remains. Until this aspect is resolved, any follow-
up efforts by the authorities, with or without the Bank's or other partners' support, would
be unable to bring substantial, long-term benefits in the area of institutional development.

Seismic risk mitigation efforts are being continued through the Istanbul Seismic Risk
Mitigation Project (ISMEP) with respect to strengthening emergency management
functions and enforcement of building codes and land use plans in Istanbul province.
Lessons learned under MEER project were integrated in the design of relevant
components of the ISMEP project. Furthermore, the Istanbul Municipal Infrastructure
project includes several activities aimed at reducing the impact of a major earthquake on
the municipal infrastructure and services.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives, design and implementation of the MEER project were highly relevant to
the country's priorities, and are identified in the current CAS (of 2003) as a priority area.
Given the high level of vulnerability to natural hazards of Turkey, and the fact that
natural disasters tend to have a significant impact on the lives of the poor, the CAS
included disaster prevention as a pillar of Bank support in order to protect the most
vulnerable and facilitate equitable social and economic development.              The housing
reconstruction component provided direct support to the lives and livelihoods of those


                                                10

affected by the August 1999 earthquake, and the remaining activities related to building a
national emergency management system, establishing a national insurance scheme,
improving land use planning and enforcement of building codes, and renovating cadastre
and land management, all contributing directly to the Government priority of making the
economy and communities more resilient to natural hazard shocks.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Overall, the project achieved the objective of helping to restore the living conditions of
the communities affected by the August 1999 earthquake through the reconstruction of
urban and rural housing built to higher, more disaster resilient construction standards.
The development objective concerning improvement of hazard management and
preparedness was partially achieved.

Housing reconstruction. The project fully achieved its objectives of restoration of normal
living conditions in the disaster-affected areas, through the timely reconstruction, i.e., in
less than two years, of about 12,000 urban housing units along with the social
infrastructure, including health facilities, off-site infrastructure as well as about 800 rural
houses for people who lost their homes in the Marmara earthquake. It should be noted
that the needs for rural housing were originally estimated at 2,000 rural household units.
Commonly, in the post-disaster period, outside factors and other options eventually
available to the affected people have impact on the reconstruction. In this case, some
rural residents moved to the urban settlements and others decided not to participate in the
program for a variety of personal reasons.

Building of national emergency management system. With assistance from the project,
the Government of Turkey established the Turkish Emergency Management Agency
(TEMAD), with a mandate to coordinate both the emergency response, mitigation and
preparedness activities. However, even though TEMAD was created at the outset of the
project, there was a significant delay in the implementation of the activities this new
agency was responsible for. TEMAD has had low capacity and political support and
leverage, despite being set up under the Prime Ministry. Nevertheless, the
implementation pace of this component moved faster in the last two years. The new
TEMAD headquarters was completed and systems for emergency information
management and emergency communications were designed and implemented.                      With
this progress, it is likely that management of disaster response has to some extent
improved, but still requires significant strengthening. There remains an overlap between
responsibilities of the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs under MPWS, TEMAD and
Civil Protection under the Ministry of Interior, combined with lack of coordination
among these agencies. The institutional arrangements for disaster risk management are
still the most challenging issue in Turkey. Based on worldwide experience, building of
the institutional capacity for disaster management constitutes a longer-term agenda, not
likely to be resolved within one project cycle.




                                                11

Development of building retrofitting code, revisions to the urban development law and
advancing the enforcement agenda. Through the activities supported by the project and
implemented by the Ministry of Public Works and Settlements (MPWS), the project
contributed to the formulation of the Building Retrofitting Code, previously non- existent
in Turkey, which will allow for a more uniform and technically solid approach to the
efforts carried out by the Government as well as the private sector to strengthen the
vulnerable building stock. Similarly, the project supported the regulatory framework and
formulation of the Development Law which will ensure that urban planning and
development activities are carried out with recognition of the risks and vulnerabilities of
given areas.      In addition, the project contributed to strengthening building code
enforcement through establishment of provincial laboratories for testing construction
materials and modernization of the computerized building code inspection system. Poor
quality of building materials has been a persistent problem and a large proportion of
structures not only cannot resist earthquakes, but moreover, cannot be even seismically
retrofitted at a reasonable cost due to low quality construction. MEER project efforts are
merely a start which provides the foundation for improved ex-ante disaster risk reduction.
Enforcement, however, is a broader, deeply rooted problem which cannot be resolved
only through the new technical standards and regulations. To a large degree it derives
from social behavioral factors. Consequently, it needs more effort and time to tackle.
This objective will remain one of the most critical challenges for the country.

Establishment of the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP). The establishment of
the TCIP has been an important innovation, both for the Bank and Turkey that will
reduce the fiscal burden on the government budget in case of future earthquakes. It has
facilitated the transfer of over 1 billion of loss potential from GoT to the international
reinsurance markets. Therefore, designing, creation and operation of the earthquake
insurance pool is an important achievement of the project. Since the program began in
September 2000, the insurance penetration for catastrophic coverage more than tripled.
Nowadays, the TCIP is one of the largest government insurance programs in the world
(second largest after the Japanese earthquake program), providing coverage to 2.6 million
Turkish homeowners (about 20 percent of the eligible housing stock). The program has
developed into a viable and sustainable insurance pool, and penetration continues to
increase, though it is far from the original projection of 60%. This optimistic projection
was based on the assumption that the new Disaster Insurance Law would be swiftly
passed. The Law, which however was never enacted could allow for tighter enforcement
of the compulsory character of the insurance, as originally foreseen under the project.

Piloting strengthening of municipal capacity to plan, regulate and implement disaster
resistant development. This objective was achieved through implementation of a pilot
program in six vulnerable municipalities of Marmara region. The program resulted in
multi-hazard risk analyses, hazard mapping, loss estimation and mitigation plans. These,
in turn, will lead to improved land use plans, based on particular risks of the municipality,
and allow for informed decisions in regard to its urban development. However, this latter
result is expected to be achieved by pilot municipalities after MEER project completion.
The work with pilot municipalities resulted in development of a methodology, described




                                             12

in a manual for vulnerability assessment in the disaster-prone areas, and further
legislative recommendations.

Renovation of cadastre. The physical effects of the 1999 earthquake exacerbated and
revealed deficiencies in the cadastral maps and land information. The project achieved
its objective of upgrading the land information system in the Marmara region through
creation of the Marmara Earthquake Region Land Information System (MERLIS),
updating and improvement of obsolete registers and maps as well as reconstruction of
local cadastral offices damaged by earthquake. Overall, the renovation of cadastre and
land information was particularly successful. The establishment of MERLIS not only
contributed to incorporating hazard risk data into the land information, but now has the
potential to inform the development planning process.

Strengthening of emergency health services. The project achieved its goal of better
disaster preparedness of the health sector in the Marmara region through support to
command centers of ten Marmara region provinces with needed equipment
(communication, IT, medical equipment, emergency operation units, ambulances,
specialized rescue vehicles, etc.). Hence, the project strengthened capacity of the health
sector in the region to respond to emergencies. The project was not able to ensure
provision of trauma counseling services to the affected population in the aftermath of the
disaster, due to lack of commitment and ownership of the program by the government.
The level of awareness of mental health issues, including those resulting from disasters,
is still very low. Nonetheless, the project financed development of the first mental
health strategy in Turkey which lays a foundation for better management of mental health
services which would lead in future to more effective treatment of trauma associated with
natural disasters.

In short, the MEER project has significantly contributed to the recovery after the
Marmara earthquake and, to some extent, to the country's ability to mitigate its
vulnerability to natural disasters. Project activities were critical first steps which need to
be followed by a more comprehensive risk management system, particularly, in light of
risks Turkey faces from natural disasters.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
N/A (Emergency Recovery Loan)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory
The project's development objectives were relevant to Government priorities, and to a
large extent they were achieved. In particular, restoration of living conditions of people
who lost their houses to the earthquake and were sheltered in the temporary camps should
be considered as a major successful outcome of the project. The housing reconstruction
program was completed efficiently and within a short time frame, with dwellings built to
higher construction standards to withstand future seismic events. A number of important


                                             13

studies were completed, and draft legislation related to reducing risk was undertaken. In
the future, it will be important to focus on the application and enforcement of the revised
laws. The establishment of the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool was an important
innovation (both for the Borrower and the Bank) and a step towards reducing the
financial exposure of the Government to hazard shocks, and towards building a culture of
insurance and risk management.            The objectives related to strengthening of the
institutional arrangements and capacity for emergency management, were not fully
achieved. The clarification and improvement of institutional arrangements for disaster
management remains an outstanding task which is of key importance to the country's
capacity to manage the hazard risk, though in itself, it will not make the country resistant
to the catastrophes. Therefore, other elements of the hazard risk management framework
(risk assessment, risk mitigation investments, emergency preparedness, response
equipment, communication and information systems, building codes and their
enforcement, public awareness, catastrophe risk financing, etc.) promoted by the MEER
project are equally crucial and should be further enhanced beyond project completion.

It is important to note that the achievement of project outcomes is considered satisfactory,
with about $300 million of the original loan amount of $505 million having been
disbursed. The project included $180 million as a contingency fund for the TCIP
Insurance Program to be used to cover loses in case of an earthquake. This "reserved"
contingency helped keep the insurance premiums down, which made it affordable to
many people and thus increased the TCIP penetration rate. It also made possible for the
pool to continue accumulating own funds and maintain liquidity. According to provisions
of the Loan Agreement, once the loan was closed, the government had an option to
withdraw the funds to increase TCIP equity but the government decided not to do so as
the TCIP no longer needed additional funds. This is a positive result which indicates that
the catastrophe insurance pool is already sustainable.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The provision of assistance for housing reconstruction greatly facilitated the recovery of
the region in the areas affected by the earthquake and brought substantial improvement in
lives of many people, including the poor. A survey of households living in tent camps
one month after the earthquake determined that their household income was less than half
of the regional average.        The successful completion of the housing reconstruction
component made a tremendous impact by bringing over 12,000 families from the
homelessness resulting from the disaster and restoring their homes.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The objective of building local and national capacity for emergency management was
partially achieved. Some positive institutional changes were made, such as establishment
of TEMAD to coordinate emergency management at the national level. The agency was



                                               14

provided with an operations center and emergency management information system
software. Other emergency management institutions made a number of important steps
to improve their capacity, e.g., MPWS and GDDA revised the building codes and
prepared a new retrofitting code (which was approved and became effective in 2007),
and strengthened construction materials laboratories in various regions of the country.
Also, the GDCD's search and rescue teams are now well equipped and capable to
respond to emergencies, both domestically and internationally. In fact, Turkish Search
and Rescue teams were one of first teams to arrive in Pakistan after the 1996 earthquake.

However, there is a recognized need to further strengthen the national capacity for
emergency management. The coordination mechanism between the key disaster risk
management institutions, such as TEMAD, GDDA, and Civil Protection, remains
deficient. In addition, continued efforts are particularly needed to develop local capacity
for disaster management following the decentralization of emergency response functions.

A major institutional development resulting from the project is the creation of TCIP, a
new institution being a prime example of a joint public/private solution aimed at reducing
the hazard risk borne by the government and property owners. Operation of TCIP also
facilitated development of local professional liability insurance capacity. By the end of
the project, the TCIP is fully sustainable with the penetration rate of around 20% level.
The reinsurance of potential losses stands now at about 1 billion.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The implementation of the project initiated major work in Turkey on cadastre renovation,
records digitization and land registration. These activities have been continued beyond
the Marmara region with the Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP) under
the same agency, GDLRC, who stressed that the experience gained through the MEER
project allowed for the swift progress of activities under the ARIP.

In the context of the cadastral and land management work, it was a first time in Turkey
that the GDLRC contracted out service in cadastre renovation to the private sector.
According to the agency, this outsourcing process positively affected supply and quality
of these services provided by the private sector.

MEER project also contributed to the preparation of the first project in Turkey, fully
dedicated to mitigation ­ Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness
Project (ISMEP). The preparatory studies included under MEER allowed for completion
of the preparation of ISMEP. The project is currently under implementation and aims at
strengthening Istanbul's resilience to earthquakes. The city is of crucial importance to
Turkey and the most vulnerable in the country, due to its location in a seismically highly
active zone, high density, as well as economic and cultural assets.




                                             15

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The reconstruction of the housing units is fully sustainable and the housing sites are well
established, with site management systems set up early on. The social (health facilities
and schools) infrastructure is operated under the authority of the relevant sectoral
ministries and off-site infrastructure (utilities) by the local governments. Therefore, the
risk to this developmental outcome of the project is low.

Based on the experience from this and other disaster recovery projects, the sustainability
of the reconstruction sites often stems from the assurance that the construction program
not only focuses on the provision of housing units but equally on making the settlements
livable and attractive for the residents. The MEER project included many elements, often
missed when the key drive is to provide a shelter for the affected people, such as well-
designed public spaces (e.g., with playgrounds for children, recreational areas, additional
amenities, etc.) which adhere to the local standards and customs.

Sustainability of already achieved institutional outcome of the project, i.e., the
improvement of the institutional framework for disaster risk management and mitigation,
is likely. However the progress that was made might not to be sustained without further
efforts and political support. There is recognition of outstanding need to strengthen the
institutional set-up through dialogue and endorsement by key stakeholders, such as the
GDDA under Ministry of Public Works and Settlements, GDCD under the Ministry of
Interior and TEMAD. Further improvement of division of responsibilities and functions
will be necessary to ensure existence of truly effective disaster management in Turkey.
For this process to happen, stronger political backing of the reforms would be required,
which was lacking throughout MEER project implementation period. The activities
aimed at strengthening the institutional arrangements got underway relatively late in the
project and the push for major institutional changes was not sufficiently strong. In
addition, the government needs to continue investments in the emergency management
information and communication systems' hardware.              These outstanding issues are
recognized by the government.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                16

The Bank team responded with extraordinarily swift and effective effort, resulting in a
very rapid preparation of a large and innovative program. The speed of preparation and
approval of the project was accorded a highest priority by the Government.

The preparation team included a wide range of experts in the fields of seismic
engineering, disaster management and preparedness, insurance, land management, health,
etc., and comprised both Bank staff and external experts.           The safeguard, legal,
procurement and financial management staff constituted an integral part of the team.

Throughout project preparation, client input at the local and national levels regarding
specific needs for investments was sought and formed the basis for the content of the
project. A rapid damage and social assessment conducted during preparation and a
follow-up monitoring at the implementation stage helped the Bank team and the
Government to understand and better address the needs of those made homeless by the
earthquake.

Notably, the main emphasis and financing provided by the Bank in the aftermath of a
disaster was no longer limited to addressing reconstruction of infrastructure and damaged
housing. More than half of the project financing supported innovative and forward-
looking measures to mitigate future losses through an improved emergency preparedness
and response planning system, better land use planning and enforcement of construction
codes, cadastre renovation and land management, and through the introduction of a new
disaster insurance scheme establishing and expanding national catastrophic risk
management and risk transfer capabilities.

In recognition of the extraordinary effort put in the preparation of MEER project and the
quality of its design, the project and its team received in 2001 the World Bank's Award
for Excellence.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory
The quality of project supervision was assessed twice by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) of the Bank, in 2002 and 2004, which rated it "Highly Satisfactory" and
"Satisfactory" respectively. In their assessments, the panels pointed to several very
strong aspects considered best practice, in particular the effectiveness of response to the
urgent needs generated by the earthquake combined with development of a long-term
agenda for disaster risk management and the strategic focus and effective deployment of
a large, diverse and highly skilled task team. The supervision assessment also indicated
high satisfaction of contacted stakeholders with the Bank's supervision.

One interesting aspect of the highly complex supervision effort was the need for the team
to work out a method for procuring reinsurance which was compatible with Bank
Guidelines and with realities and practices of the world reinsurance industry. This
project was the first time reinsurance (of about 1 billion of coverage) was ever



                                                17

purchased with Bank funds; this occurred while TCIP was building its penetration and
working capital. The project team also advised the government on setting the premia
with automatic adjustments based on relevant cost indices, to prevent erosion of capital.

On balance, the performance monitoring and evaluation efforts were found by QAG
review a weaker aspect of the supervision, due to the predominant concentration on
tracking project inputs and outputs and to lesser degree the social and economic impacts
of reconstruction works.

Fiduciary and safeguards policies supervision was also rated "Satisfactory", reflecting an
adequate attention to compliance with resettlement policies, particularly to the
compensation of the affected people, to the environmental safeguards and the financial
management supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal,
and implementation. The relationships with the PIU and implementing agencies were
productive, and the Bank team brought in its global experience in disaster reconstruction
and risk management, and specialized expertise from many countries.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government's performance was satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation, particularly for the reconstruction activities, which were completed
efficiently and effectively.    Ownership related to the establishment of the national
institutional framework for disaster risk management was lacking in the early years.
However, there now seems to be an improved understanding of what is needed in terms
of the institutional set-up and the willingness to take decisive steps to achieve this
important objective. In part this may be due to unified control of the government by a
single political party. Since this commitment was not apparent during most of project
implementation period, the important institutional outcomes could not be fully achieved.
On the other hand, the commitment to the longer-term goal of improving disaster risk
management demonstrated in the ISMEP project is a strong indicator of government
ownership.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The performance of the PIU was satisfactory.         The Unit was already in existence
implementing the preceding TEFER project.          The PIU staff were skilled in Bank
procurement, disbursement, and reporting procedures and had well qualified engineering
staff. Under MEER project, the PIU reported directly to the Prime Ministry's Office
instead of any line ministry or agency, which reflected the multi-sectoral character of the
project.




                                             18

The operation of the PIU fully dedicated to the project was particularly important for the
emergency reconstruction where speed of the construction works had to be combined
with the incorporation of the social and environmental considerations into the
development of the new settlements. Moreover, the PIU worked very closely with a
multitude of government agencies involved in project implementation, such as GDI,
GDLRC, GDDA, TEMAD and local governments in pilot municipalities. The
performance of these agencies in their respective components was also satisfactory.
Overall, the PIU was proactive in addressing any implementation bottlenecks that arose,
and were highly collaborative with the Bank team and the other government agencies.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory as reflected in the outputs and
outcomes achieved through the close collaboration in project implementation with the
multitude of agencies, timely provision of the counterpart founding, adequacy of the
financial and procurement processes and compliance with Bank safeguards.

Moreover, the Government of Turkey has proved to be one of the champions among
Bank borrowers in its proactive approach and openness to innovations in the field of
disaster risk management, by undertaking a major program under the MEER project, such
as the creation of the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool. Much has been accomplished
since launching the project and those areas which were not fully completed are by their
nature long-term developmental issues.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
Lessons from MEER project provide valuable learning for Bank provision of post-
disaster reconstruction and recovery assistance and for ex-ante disaster risk management.
These include:

    · While it is tempting to take advantage of the post-disaster window of opportunity
       to introduce institutional and regulatory reforms to promote disaster prevention
       and mitigation, there is a need to be realistic about what can be practically
       achieved in the context of an emergency recovery project.

    · Establishing effective institutional framework and building capacity for disaster
       risk management institutions is a long-term agenda that is not likely to be
       achieved within the life span of one project, in a course of 4-5 years.

    · The existence of a post-disaster recovery project implementation unit, solely
       dedicated to the reconstruction efforts does accelerate and strengthen the process.
       This applies to the physical reconstruction but not necessarily to the mitigation
       activities and institution building. Therefore, in providing support for post-



                                             19

        disaster reconstruction and recovery, the Bank needs to weigh very carefully the
        advantages and disadvantages of having a PIU to manage the process vs. building
        on the existing capacity of the country.

    · In case of MEER project, the budget allocation for the reconstruction was made
        for the entire duration of the reconstruction period and not as an annual sectoral
        appropriation. This minimized the uncertainties caused by annual budgeting and
        administrative procedures for releasing of funds. Such an approach enabled the
        government to move swiftly with the reconstruction program. This flexibility as
        well as the specialized and dedicated PIU are key factors that contributed to the
        success of the reconstruction program.

    · Post-disaster recovery needs tend to be overestimated, therefore, while designing
        the housing reconstruction projects, the teams should be very prudent in needs
        assessments and take into account other factors and housing options affected
        people have in the medium- or longer-term following the disaster.

    · The successful reconstruction program should pay close attention and support not
        only to reconstruction of housing units but also to adequate social infrastructure,
        such as schools, clinics, shopping areas, as well as public spaces, etc., which
        contribute to the improvement of living conditions of the affected communities.

    · The issues which involve complex and deeply-rooted factors are unlikely to be
        resolved within one project cycle. This is well exemplified by the enforcement
        of building codes as well as building capacity for the response to the post-disaster
        trauma.    Both are long-standing problems that can only be tackled through
        incremental changes.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

In its comments to the issues raised in this report, the government agreed with its main
conclusions, stressing that the experience from MEER project shows that the design and
implementation of capacity building activities take much longer than the reconstruction
activities. This is particularly true when a project, as in the MEER case, promotes a
major change and restructuring of the existing institutional setting. While there may be a
good justification for putting the institution building and physical reconstruction under
the same financing package, the need for acceleration of post-disaster recovery takes
away a focus from institutional components. An alternative would be to tackle
institutional issues under a separate project.

The government also highlighted a lesson from the project, which is that at a design stage,
a strong participation of key stakeholder agencies should be incorporated, allowing



                                              20

enough time for them to analyze given options in order to ensure their full ownership and
commitment. This approach could likely decrease delays in the project implementation.

Issues raised by individual implementing agencies in their own evaluations indicate their
satisfaction with the project implementation and its outcomes. Overall, the implementing
agencies appreciated the experience and knowledge gained through the implementation
of MEER project. Unanimously, all of them emphasized that the agenda of hazard
mitigation which includes numerous elements, such as risk assessment, emergency
preparedness, institutional capacity building, mitigation investments, land use planning,
code enforcement, risk financing, etc., has been well initiated but these efforts need to be
further continued.


(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                            21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)           Appraisal

SUB-COMPONENT A1:
NATIONAL EMERGENCY                      110.17               16.83             15.27
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SUB-COMPONENT A2:
DISASTER INSURANCE                      273.00               71.46             26.18
SCHEME
SUB-COMPONENT A3: LAND
USE PLANNING AND
ENFORCEMENT OF                           11.78               17.81            151.20

CONSTRUCTION CODES
SUB-COMPONENT A4:
CADASTRE RENOVATION                      24.21               24.44            100.97
AND LAND MANAGEMENT
COMPONENT B: TRAUMA
PROGRAM FOR ADULTS                        6.89                7.67            111.26

COMPONENT C:
CONSTRUCTION OF
PERMANENT HOUSING IN                    293.32              290.67             99.10
BOLU, KOCAELI AND
YALOVA
COMPONENT D: PROJECT
MANAGEMENT                               12.69               12.35             97.36

COMPONENT A5: FLOOD
PROTECTION SCHEME IN                      0.00                0.00             0.00
BARTIN


            Total Baseline Cost         732.05              441.23             60.27

Physical Contingencies                    0.00                0.00             0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00                0.00             0.00
             Total Project Costs          0.00              441.23             60.27
Project Preparation Fund                  0.00                0.00              .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        5.05                5.05            100.00
      Total Financing Required          737.11              446.23            60.96*



* The contingency funding under component A.2 (Insurance) was US$180 million.
Therefore, estimated at the appraisal project cost without the contingent facility was
US$557.11. Consequently, the total actual cost was 79.20% of the appraisal estimate.



                                            22

(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds                Type of      Estimate       Estimate  Percentage of
                                      Cofinancing       (USD          (USD      Appraisal
                                                      millions)      millions)

and Development
International Bank for ReconstructionJoint          505.00*       306.66       60.78

Govt. of Borrowing Country           Joint          176.18        63.89        36.27
LOCAL: BENEFICIARIES                 Joint          55.93         50.18        89.71

* Including the contingent part of the loan of $180 million. If the loan is considered
without this facility, triggered by certain conditions specified in the Loan Agreement, it
comes to $325 million.




                                              23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A.1: National Emergency Management System

  · Establishment of the Turkish Emergency Management Agency (TEMAD) as a
     permanent central emergency response coordinating body;
  · Design and construction of an emergency management facility;
  · Design and establishment of the emergency communication and information
     management systems;
  · Organization of the "International Emergency Management Symposium"
     gathering participants from six risk-prone countries and international
     organizations (UN, JICA, NATO and World Bank);
  · Organization of the "Earthquake Summit" as part of development of the national
     strategy for earthquake risk reduction.

Component A.2: Disaster Insurance Scheme

  · Establishment of the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP), backed by the
     contingent capital facility;
  · Preparatory studies for TCIP;
  · Public information campaigns;
  · Training sessions and workshops;
  · Coverage of reinsurance premiums (in the first year of operation and in 2006).

Component A.3: Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes

  · Organization of workshops to develop draft Development Law and Urban
     Regeneration Law;
  · Development of a manual for municipalities on "Redefinition of Planning and
     Development Standards for Disaster-Prone Areas";
  · Preparation of a manual on the "Integration of Ground Scientific Data into
     Planning";
  · Workshops to develop the Code for Building Retrofitting and the Code for Soil
     Improvement;
  · Training program for civil engineers and designers on building construction and
     retrofitting according to the new Turkish Earthquake Resistant Design Code;
  · Upgrading software design and provision of hardware for the Building Inspection
     System within the Ministry of Public Works and Settlements;
  · Refurbishment and equipping provincial laboratories for testing of construction
     materials
  · TA for upgrading of seismic hazard maps;
  · Development and establishment of the National Disaster Data Archives and the
     Disaster Information System;



                                          24

  · Microzonation and Hazard Vulnerability Studies in six pilot municipalities of
     Marmara region (Bakirköy, Tegirda, Gemlik, Bandirma, Eskiehir and Körfez);
  · Provision of TA and training to the planning and development departments of the
     pilot municipalities;
  · Development of Disaster Mitigation Guidelines for each pilot municipality;
  · Feasibility studies for Istanbul seismic risk mitigation (studies included:
     emergency management information system, upgrading emergency response,
     emergency communication system, retrofitting of high priority public assets,
     retrofitting of selected residential buildings as well as building code enforcement
     study).

Component A.4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management

  · Establishment of a multi-layer Marmara Earthquake Land Information System
     (MERLIS);
  · Densification work of TUTGA (Turkish National Basic GPS Network) carried out
     in cities of Kocaeli, Sakarya and Yalova;
  · Reconstruction of five local land registration and cadastre offices in Yalova,
     Kocaeli, Sakarya, Kandira and Hendek;
  · Scale 1:1000 digital photogrametric maps covering area of 58,734 ha;
  · Completed cadastre and land registry renovation of 103,877 parcels in 93 villages
  · Establishment of first cadastre of 90,650 parcels in 101 villages;
  · Provision of equipment (electronic takeometers, GPS devices, computers and
     other IT equipment for local offices and the server room for the headquarters)
  · Procurement of orthorectified satellite images in Sakarya region;
  · Organization of a workshop on a final review and results assessment of the
     component.

Component B: Trauma/Emergency Health Care

  · Development of the National Mental Health Strategy;
  · Training, educational materials and office equipment for central and provincial
     mental health departments;
  · Software and hardware for call recording and operation management systems for
     the Command and Control Centers in 9 provinces;
  · Equipment sets for the National Medical Rescue Teams;
  · Specialized medical equipment, 200 ambulance equipment sets, 2 mobile
     emergency operation units, 200 mechanical ventilator devices, etc., for 9
     provinces;
  · IT equipment (including 150 computers and printers);
  · Provision of 105 desktop radio units, 105 mobile radios, 120 generators for the
     Command and Control Centers;
  · Procurement of 9 specialized rescue vehicles;




                                           25

Component C: Permanent Housing and Health Facilities

  · Construction of 11,502 urban housing units in the provinces of Düzce, Kocaeli
     and Sakarya;
  · Construction of 17 health centers and 10 logging facilities at the project sites;
  · Landscaping works and public spaces;
  · Reconstruction of 797 rural houses in 137 villages in provinces of Yalova and
     Kocaeli;
  · Provision of designs and training for rural houses' owners in seismically resistant
     construction and maintenance techniques.




                                        26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                        27

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Ibrahim Akcayoglu        Operations Officer                ECSHD Health Component

Ayse Seda Aroymak        Sr Financial Management Specialist ECSPS   Financial
                                                                    Management

Eugene N. Gurenko        Lead Financial Sector Specialist   FPDSN   Insurance
                                                                    Component
Ulker Karamullaoglu      Program Assistant                 ECCU6 Overall Assistance

Jolanta Kryspin-Watson   Operations Analyst                 ECSSD   Institutional
                                                                    Components

Zeynep Lalik Mete        E T Consultant                     ECSPS   Financial
                                                                    Mangement

Rodney Lester            Sr Adviser                         FPDSN   Insurance
                                                                    Component
Beatrice Koshie Michel   Program Assistant                  ECSSD Overall Assistance

Serap Oguz Gonulal       Consultant                         FPDVP   Insurance
                                                                    Component
Norval Stanley Peabody   Consultant                         ECSSD Social Safeguards
Ibrahim Sirer            Sr Procurement Spec.               ECSPS Procurement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                    111                         459.89
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                        Total:            111                         459.89
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                      63                        307.76
  FY01                                      60                        260.01



                                         28

FY02               40    209.46
FY03               35    181.46
FY04               30    147.52
FY05               22    128.31
FY06               32    138.11
FY07               13     45.86
        Total:    295    1418.49




                 29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                    30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The agencies implementing MEER project (SPO, TEMAD, GDI, MPWS, MOH, PIU)
carried out their own evaluations of the project. The key points emerging from these
assessments are listed below:

   · MEER project objectives were adequately stated in the context of the post-
       disaster conditions and the mitigation;

   · The project was beneficial and the activities should be further continued;

   · The Catastrophe Insurance Scheme provided significant benefits, giving a
       successful example to other countries;

   · The World Bank has not only provided the financing required for implementation
       of the compulsory earthquake insurance system but also shared its global
       knowledge and expertise in implementation of the scheme;

   · The coverage of the catastrophe insurance program should be expended to other
       disasters and types of buildings;

   · The institutional reform of the disaster management could not be completed, as
       originally foreseen under component A-1, mainly due to the limited capacity of
       TEMAD, and overlapping functions and responsibilities of a number of
       government institutions;

   · Within the scope of the project, new earthquake resistant buildings were
       constructed for the Land Registry and Cadastre Directorates in the region, works
       related to densification of TNBGN (Turkish National Basic GPS Network) in the
       region were completed, electronic equipment and GPS systems were procured,
       cadastral renovation works completed for 93 villages and first cadastral plans
       were developed for 101 villages;

   · In the context of the cadastral and land management work, the project facilitated
       development of private sector in this area; it was a first time that the GDLRC
       contracted out service for the cadastre renovation;

   · The project had extremely positive results in terms of rehabilitating the health
       care infrastructure, rendering them efficient and bringing the services to places
       where they were needed;

   · The project considerably strengthened Emergency Healthcare Services in 10 cities
       of Marmara region, and brought world standards to the response teams, thereby,
       improving availability and quality of the emergency healthcare services;




                                            32

· The project had a positive impact through the support to the construction
  materials laboratories allowing for building materials inspections and helping
  improve quality of the construction;

· The activities carried out under the project and the outcomes were very important,
  by supporting draft report on basic ground surveys and ground strengthening,
  development of principles regarding seismic risk maps, and improvement of
  technical capacities of GDDA staff;

· Project components contributed to the preparation of some legislations but more
  work and support is needed;

· The project has helped to learn external financing procedures. The problems have
  been expediently resolved thanks to collaboration between the staff from World
  Bank's country office in Ankara and the Prime Ministry Project Implementation
  Unit.

· Through MEER, agencies acquired knowledge and experience in project
  management and procurement processes;

· The World Bank procurement procedures are different than the national public
  procurement regulations which caused delayed project results;

· More flexibility in the procurement rules would improve project implementation;

· Involvement of Prime Ministry PIU delayed clearance procedures;

· PIU should have maintained its capacity and staffing till the end of the project in
  order to effectively assist the implementing agencies.




                                       33

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    34

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

"Turkey: Marmara Earthquake Assessment"; World Bank; 1999

Project Appraisal Document; 1999

"Evaluation of TEFER Housing Project in Adana and Ceyhan and Public Participation
for Reconstruction of Housing under MEER"; Strateji/Mori; 2000

"Resettlement Action Plan" ; 2000

"Environment Management Plan"; 2000

Assessments of MEER Project by Implementing Agencies




                                        35

