Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19844-TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$505MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 10/8/99)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL 1= US$ 0.0000022
US$ 1 = TL 459,516
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEDAS   Bogazici Elektrik Dagitim A.S.           PIU-LOs  Project Implementation Unit Local Offices
CMH      Community Mental Health                 PMCC   PFme Minister Crisis Center
EMAT    Emergency Management Agency of Turkey  PMRs    Project Management Reports
EMDN    Emergency Management Data Network        PSR      Project Status Report
EERL    Earthquake Emergency Recovery Loan       PTF      Project Task Force
ERL      Emergency Recovery Loan                 PTSD     Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
ESNAF   National Confederation of the Turkish    SC       Steering Committee
Tradesmen and Handicrafts
EU       European Union                          SEDAS   Sakarya Elektrik Dagitim A.S.
GDCD    General Directorate of Civil Defense     SME      Small and Medium Size Enterprises
GDDA    General Directorate of Disaster Affairs  SOE      Statement of Expenses
GDI      General Directorate of Insurance        SPO      State Planning Organization
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                  SSIS     Small Scale Industrial Sites
GIS      Geographical Information System         SSK      Social Insurance Program
GOT      Government of Turkey                    TCIP     Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool
HDA      Housing Development Agency              TEFER   Turkey Earthquake and Flood Emergency
Recovery Project
IFI      Intemational Financial Institutions     TESK     Turkyye Esnaf ve Sanatharlary Konfederasyonu
(Confederation of Micro-enterprises)
KEDAS   Korfez Elektrik Dagitim A.S.             TL       Turkish Lira
LV       Low Voltage                             TOR      Term of Reference
MEER    Marmara Earthquake Emergency             TPA      Turkish Psychologists Association
Reconstruction Project
MLSS    Ministry of Labor and Social Security    UHF      Ultra High Frequency
MOI      Ministry of Interior                    UNDP    United Nations Development Program
MPWS   Minister of Public Works and Settlements    UNICEF  United Nations Intemational Children Education
Fund
MV/LV    Medium Voltage/Low Voltage             VAT       Value Added Tax
NGO      Non Govemmental Organization            VHF      Very High Frequency
O&M      Operations & Maintenance                YEDM    Yalova Elektrik Dagitim Muessesesi (Yalova
Electric Authority)
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
Vice President:   Johannes Lirn
Country Manager/Director:    Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director:    Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Piotr Wilczynski



TURKEY
MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                        3
2. Key performance indicators                                                           5
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       14
3. Benefits and target population                                                      15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         20
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                            21
2. Financial                                                                           21
3. Technical                                                                           21
4. Institutional                                                                       21
5. Social                                                                              23
6. Environmental assessment                                                            23
7. Participatory approach                                                              24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      24
2. Critical risks                                                                      25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      26



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           26
2. Other                                                                              26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         27
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        110
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          112
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   113
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      114
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    125
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                      127
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 128
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           131
Annex I 1: Social Survey                                                                133
Annex 12: Environmental Data Sheet                                                      146
Annex 13: Temporary Shelter Program                                                     148
MAP(S)



TURKEY
Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: November 01, 1999                          Team Leader: Piotr M. Wilczynski
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber          Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P068368                              Sector(s): BI - Institutional Development, FS - Financial
Sector Development, IL - Small Scale Enterprise, UH -
Urban Housing, WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan      Theme(s):
(ERL)
Project Financing Data
[XI Loan            [ ICredit             [ Grant           [  Guarantee      [ ]Other (specify)
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m)
Proposed Terms: []to be defined [ ] Multicurrency  [X] Single currency [ Standard Variable [X] Fixed
[ Libor-based
Grace period (years):           3
Years to maturity:              15
Commitment fee:                 standard
Front end fee on Bank loan      1.00%
Financing Plan:
Source                               Local         Foreign        Total
Government                                                    160.17           16.01      176.18
IBRD                                                          339.04          165.96      505.00
IDA
BENEFICIARIES                                                  38.00           17.93       55.93
Total Bank-Financed Project Costs:                            537.21          199.90      737.11
Additional Non-Bank Financing for the Framework Program:
Co-financiers                                                 230.31          118.34      348.65
Government                                                    546.48           54.61      601.09
Beneficiaries                                                  73.98           34.65      108.90
Total Program Costs:                                         1387.98          407.77     1795.75
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
Other Agency(ies):
Prime Minister's Office, Ministry of Public Works and Settlement, Ministry of Interior, General Directorate of
Insurance/Treasury, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labor and Social Security, Selected Municipalities, Housing and



Development Agency
Address: Undersecretariat of Treasury, General Directorate of External Economic Relations, Inonu Bulvari Eskisehir
Yolu, Emek Ankara
Contact Person: Ms. Sen Akinan
Tel: 90 312 213 0297               Fax: 90 312 212 8550
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYJUS$M):
FY           2000        2001         2002       2003        2004
Annual   266.5         200.0         37.7        0.4         0.4
Cumulative   266.5        466.5        504.2       504.6      505.0
Project implementation period: 1999-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/99  Expected closing date:  05/31/2005
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 199B



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Framework Program. At the request of and in cooperation with the Govermnent of Turkey (GOT) and
other international partners, the Bank has prepared a Framework Program as a comprehensive response to
the August 17 Marmara earthquake. The Bank-financed elements of this program comprise the Marmara
Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction project (MEER). Implementation of the Framework Program is
supported by the Bank and other co-financiers as follows:
Framework Program                 Indicative      Main Source of
Costs           Finance
(US$M)
Component A:   Disaster Response System    419.16             World Bank
and Risk Mitigation
Sub-component Al: National Emergency        110.17            World Bank
Management System
Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance Scheme   273.00          World Bank
Sub-component A3: Land Use Planning and     11.78             World Bank
Enforcement of Construction
Codes
Sub-component A4: Cadastre Renovation and   24.21             World Bank
Land Management
Component B:   Trauma Program for Adults 6.89                 World Bank
Component C:   Construction of Permanent  293.32              World Bank
Housing in Bolu, Kocaeli
and Yalova
Component D:   Project Management           12.69             World Bank
Component E:   Business Rehabilitation      109.72            Other co-financiers
Component F:   Construction of Permanent   177.07             Other co-financiers
Housing in Bolu, Sakarya,
Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa and
Eskisehir
Component G:   Repair of Existing Housing   632.12            Other co-financiers
Stock and Healthcare
Facilities
Component H:   Rebuilding and Repair of    139.73             Other-cofinanciers
Roads, Water supply
Systems, Wastewater
Systems, Power Distribution
Networks
Front-end Fee                               5.05
Total Program Costs                         1795.75           of which, US$505
World Bank
_Financing
The Framework Program is described in Annex 2 of the present PAD. All co-financiers and the GOT have
-3 -



requested that the components supported by non-Bank sources be implemented in accordance with the
procedures identified by the Bank for procurement, disbursement and financial management. They also
requested that the Bank-financed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) be the central agency responsible for
the realization of the overall Framework Program. Each financing partner is responsible for the outcome,
monitoring and supervision of the respective sub-components, as outlined above. The Bank has agreed with
the GOT on the outcomes expected to be achieved at the end of the implementation period as described in
Annex 1, and has clarified that its fiduciary responsibility does not extend to the sub-components financed
by other co-financiers (please refer to Annex I for a summary of the objectives, outcomes and
monitoring/supervision arrangements for the MEER project).
Objectives. The main objective of the Framework Program is to help restore the living conditions in the
region of Turkey that was affected by the August 17, 1999 Marmara earthquake, support economic
recovery and resumption of growth, and develop an institutional framework for disaster risk management
and mitigation. To achieve this objective, the Framework Program will help the Government: (i) upgrade
the disaster response systems, (ii) rehabilitate the damaged business sector and reduce the social effects of
the earthquake, and (iii) reconstruct and repair affected housing and municipal infrastructure. In the context
of this comprehensive program, the Bank will finance specific components, which constitute the MEER
project, and will mainly focus on building a sustainable national emergency management response system
as a way to reduce the impact of future earthquake on the country, by establishing a disaster insurance
scheme and improving land use management and enforcement of building codes, and on restablishing
normal living conditions in the areas hit the earthquake by supporting a trauma program for adults and
reconstructing new houses.
Background. On August 17, 1999 an earthquake measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale devastated the
Marmara region of Turkey. Areas of peak damage include the seven provinces of Kocaeli (Izmit, Golcuk),
Sakarya (Adapazari), Yalova, Bolu, Istanbul, Bursa and Eskisehir. Over 17,000 lives have been lost, an
estimated 200,000 people remain homeless in the region, and Turkey's industrial heartland has been
extensively damaged. International support for Turkey for the immediate relief effort has been rapid and
generous. However, a major reconstruction effort and recovery plan are now needed, in addition to a
mechanism to reduce the costs of future natural disasters in the country.
A preliminary assessment was undertaken by the Bank to outline the likely impact of the earthquake on the
economy and the cost of reconstruction and recovery. The team assessed the physical damages to capital
assets, but also indirect effects including output losses, foregone earnings and costs of relief efforts, and
secondary effects on the incidence of poverty and the shift in government policies.
The damages are estimated at US$1,100 - 3,000 million for the housing sector, around US$70 million for
municipal infrastructure, around US$78 million for roads, bridges and highways, around US$38 million for
telecom, approximately US$60 million for electricity and US$1,100 - 2,600 for enterprises. Small and
medium enterprises have been heavily damaged, and many of these supply inputs to large companies in the
area.
The current account deficit is expected to widen by some US$900 million in 1999 under the immediate
impact of the quake and by some US$2 billion (one percent of GNP) in 2000. The total fiscal burden
arising from the earthquake is estimated to be in the range of US$1.8-2.2 billion spread over the next 16
months. The largest direct cost to the budget, estimated to be in the range of US$740 million to US$1.2
billion, will be come from reconstruction and repair of damage to the housing stock of the region. Costs
from infrastructure replacement and rehabilitation are estimated to add a further US$450 million. Revenue
losses and credit programs represent one third of total estimated fiscal costs of the earthquake, totaling
- 4 -



US$1.3 billion. Additional costs are expected from emergency assistance to the population and associated
compensation for loss of life and disability, totaling an estimated US$540 million. This figure includes
costs for temporary shelters.
In addition to the physical and social damages, the gravity of the event pointed out the need for upgrading
the existing emergency response system, the lack of effective enforcement of the Turkey's building codes
and the inadequate coverage of earthquake insurance in the housing sector.
Bank's response. At the request of the Government of Turkey (GOT), the Bank has prepared a two stage
program. The immediate response was to approve amendments to eight existing loans to the Republic of
Turkey (Turkey Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project, Loan No. 4388-TU; Road
Improvement and Safety Project, Loan No. 4048-TU; TEK Restructuring Project, Loan No. 3345-1 -TU;
National Transmission Grid Project, Loan No. 4344-TU; Employment and Training Project, Loan No.
3541 -TU; Basic Education Project, Loan No. 4355-TU; Primary Health Care Services Project, Loan No.
4201-TU; Health II Project, Loan No. 3802-TU). The purpose of the amendments was to reallocate funds
in the amount of US$267 to provide immediate assistance for the reconstruction of housing, infrastructure,
health, employment, training and educational services in the Marmara region.
As a second stage of its assistance program, the Bank has prepared an Emergency Earthquake Recovery
Loan (EERL, US$252 million) that aims to assist Turkey to respond quickly to the earthquake through
financing of private sector import requirements and budgetary support for priority actions under the
Government's recovery program, notably social protection for earthquake victims, and a Marmara
Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction project (MEER, US$737. 11 million) for the reconstruction of the
areas affected by the earthquake. The MEER is a large operation aimed at financing reconstruction and
interventions that will contain damages in the case of a similar event, especially since scientists anticipate
that the regions of Istanbul and Izmir are under the danger of being hit by earthquakes in the relatively near
future. The MEER project is part of the comprehensive Framework Program that has been prepared by the
Bank in cooperation with UNDP, the European Union and other IFIs and donors.
To help Turkey finance the costs of the earthquake the Bank's new lending of US$757 million is part of a
US$3 billion package of assistance from the IMF, the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Council of
Europe's Social Development Fund (SDF), Japan, Korea, the Islamic Deevelopment Bank and the Gulf
Cooperation Council. The remaining funds will be raised domestically through additional taxation (see
EERL Memorandum of the President). The outpouring of international support should help Turkey avoid
the risk of crowding out other development programs.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The MEER project will be evaluated against the following key performance indicators:
* reduction of damages to physical infrastructure and housing in the event of future earthquakes,
especially to the most recent constructions
* prompt recovery of the social sector
* timely replacement of housing units
Output indicators for each component are specified in Annex 1. It was decided to include in Annex I also
output indicators for the components financed by other IFIs in order to create consistency in the
- 5 -



implementation of the overall framework program. However, this was done to facilitate implementation by
the central PIU, and the outputs indicators for the non-Bank financed components will ultimately be the
subject of negotiations between the GOT and the respective co-financiers. The GOT will enter into separate
loan agreements with other IFIs that will define the monitoring and reporting procedures for the
components of the Framework Program that are not Bank financed.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16992-TU                        Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/04/97
The central thrust of the current Country Assistance Strategy for Turkey for FY1998-2000 is to increase
the development impact of the Bank Group's activities in the country. The base case financing program is
for up to US$1.5 billion in investment lending, to take place on the basis of gradual but steady
improvement in macroeconomic adjustment. The CAS includes a high-case program of up to an additional
US$3 billion over three years in adjustment financing to support a comprehensive program of structural
reforms, underpinned by a macroeconomic framework endorsed by the IMF. Implementation of this CAS,
prior to the earthquake, was progressing well. New commitments under investment projects already total
US$1.38 billion for basic education, power transmission, water and sewerage, privatization of irrigation,
commodities market development, industrial technology, export financial intermediation, and-one year
ago in response to two natural disasters-emergency flood and earthquake recovery. Major non-lending
services include the living standards and social welfare study under preparation, an energy sector review
and workshop, forestry sector review, and sectoral workshops on selected topics in agricultural support,
stabilization, municipal finance, and health insurance. A country economic memorandum is being prepared.
Portfolio management is improving, although there was some slowdown during the change of government
last spring. In general, the dialogue with the Government has strengthened, particularly in light of reforms
implemented or outlined since May 1999.
The FY98-00 CAS did not anticipate the risk of a natural disaster on the scale of the Marmara earthquake,
and hence did not present a scenario applicable to coping with the recovery. Immediately after the
earthquake struck, the Bank received a request from the Government of Turkey for emergency assistance.
However, it became clear that the recovery program would require far more financial support from the
Bank than could be funded with the uncommitted portion of the CAS base case. Bank management has
proposed an increase in the lending envelope during this CAS period of some US$750 million for new
emergency lending, which will complement other aspects of the emergency assistance program including
assessment of the damage and economic impact of the earthquake, assistance in coordination of external
donors and agencies, policy advice on emergency preparedness and disaster management, building codes
and insurance systems, and the institutional arrangements for implementation of the recovery progrm.
The core components of the Bank's emergency assistance program are as follows:
*   Preparation of an Earthquake Assessment, circulated to the Board on September 15, which provides a
preliminary assessment of the material damage, social costs and the impact on the economy.
*   Reallocation of up to US$300 million in uncommitted funds from selected ongoing IBRD operations to
redirect project activities to areas and infrastructure needs most affected by the earthquake. A total of
US$267 million has already been reallocated from existing loans in six sectors to immediate sectoral
priorities of the recovery effort.
*   Immediate financial assistance of US$252 million to support critical imports and budgetary needs
provided under the proposed Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan.
*   New loan for reconstruction and disaster mitigation of US$505 million through this project.
-6 -



The CAS for the period FY2001-2003 will be brought to the Board in May 2000 and will build on the
lessons learned during this emergency, including the need to recognize the risk of natural disasters and
outline the potential assistance of the Bank Group when the occur. The lending envelope to be proposed in
the new CAS would take into account the expanded portfolio size among other factors. In this context, it
will also focus on Turkey's urban development strategy and sharpen mechanisms for institutional
development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government is formulating its response to the earthquake in the context of a broader economic reform
program. This program builds upon and expands on the earlier framework supported by the IMF under the
staff monitored program (SMP) initiated in mid-1998. The Government's structural reform program covers
tax policy and public expenditure management, social security, financial sector reform, agricultural
policies, and deregulation and privatization.
While the performance of the national emergency management system in the days immediately following
the earthquake has been criticized, the Government's initial macroeconomic policy response was
appropriate and effective. Central Bank intervention in the days following the earthquake helped calm
markets and prevent a financial panic. The Government's decision to submit to Parliament a supplemental
tax package to help meet the fiscal burden of the quake signaled its intent to maintain fiscal discipline.
After some initial hesitation, relief efforts are now in full swing. The Government has established a crisis
center in the Prime Ministry to coordinate relief efforts and activate public and private sector capacities to
respond to pressing needs for food, shelter and health care including psychosocial counseling for trauma
victims. Large tent cities have been set up and emergency social services are being provided. The General
Directorate for Children has staff in the tent cities to address the immediate needs of approximately 1,000
highly vulnerable children (especially orphans). Many governments, local and international agencies, and
NGOs have responded quickly to support relief efforts and humanitarian assistance to the affected
population has been forthcoming.
The focus of the Government's efforts is now moving from relief to recovery as the components of its
earthquake recovery program are put in place. At this stage, the top priority is to mobilize social protection
mechanisms to help displaced persons and other vulnerable groups recover from the impact of the disaster
and return to productive lives as soon as possible. The recovery program also includes support to affected
enterprises, and a medium-term reconstruction and disaster mitigation program. To supplement external
support for the program, the Government intends to implement a series of revenue measures to help finance
earthquake-related costs.
The Government has introduced an accommodation assistance program for households that suffered heavy
or medium damage to their homes of TLI 00 million per month for up to one year. Displaced families will
be able to choose to receive this cash assistance or accept free accommodation in public facilities or
pre-fabricated housing as this becomes available. The Government has also announced a repair assistance
program to help families who suffered light damage to their homes. Under this program, eligible
homeowners will receive a one-time grant of TL600 million to help carry out repairs. The Government is
preparing a complementary package of social assistance benefits for the longer-term vulnerable among the
earthquake victims, in particular families that have suffered breadwinner deaths or disabilities. As a first
step, the pension legislation was amended to reduce the period of required contributions for earthquake
victims in terms of their survivor benefits and disability pensions under the three social insurance
programs. However, there will be survivors and disabled who still do not qualify for social insurance
- 7 -



benefits. The Government has announced a program to offer one-time lump-sum payments for each death
and permanent disability regardless of social insurance coverage as was done following the 1992 Erzincan
earthquake.
For enterprises affected by the earthquake, the authorities have announced a tax deferral scheme and a
subsidized credit program through the three main state banks. The tax deferral scheme covers all businesses
(and individuals) affected by the earthquake. Only about one-fourth of the deferred revenues are expected
to be recoverable due to the loss of tax records and losses arising from severely damaged businesses. The
subsidized credit program features: (i) rescheduling of existing loans by the three state banks to parties
adversely affected by the earthquake for three years with one year grace on principal and interest, and (ii)
new subsidized credits. While the high level of subsidy is a cause for concern, the banks are putting in
place operational procedures for the new credit component of the program to ensure access by small and
micro-enterprises (firms with less than 10 employees) thereby channeling part of the subsidy to them. For
affected firms in the SME sector (representing firms with between 10 and 200 employees), IFC has
indicated an interest in establishing a credit line through the commercial banks.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Framework Program will (i) assist the Government to introduce measures to reduce potential losses
from natural disasters in the future, by improving the emergency response system, increasing the resistance
of new buildings to earthquake by adopting and enforcing land use plans and building codes, setting up a
disaster insurance scheme, and increasing public awareness of the issues and how they can best prepare
themselves; (ii) help the recovery of the business and social sectors through a series of support programs to
small businesses and by increasing both the quantity and quality of trauma related counseling for the
affected population; and (iii) implement expeditiously the reconstruction and rehabilitation of infrastructure
in the affected areas, using methods which will increase the confidence of the local population in the
process and quality of the buildings in which they will live.
The rationale for the geographic focus is based on the strategic choice to assist the most extensively
damaged regions of Turkey to restore essential infrastructure, and to reduce the vulnerability to
earthquakes nationwide.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The following are the components financed under the project:
Component A - Disaster Response System and Risk Mitigation (US$419.16 million)
Sub-component Al: Emergency Management and Response System (US$110.17 million). The objective of
this sub-component is to create a comprehensive emergency management structure that focuses on the
coordination and integration of risk reduction strategies (activities that reduce or eliminate the risk to
human life and property), preparedness (pre-disaster activities to develop and maintain capabilities to
respond rapidly and effectively to emergencies, including, planning, training, public awareness), response
(activities to rapidly assess and contain the effects of disasters, provide support to the victims, and deliver
emergency services), and recovery (damage assessment, activities to restore damaged facilities and
equipment, and support the economic and social revitalization of affected areas). This sub-component will
- 8 -



finance the design and implementation of a restructured emergency management and response system. This
will be achieved through institutional strengthening activities at each level, including activities at the
municipal level for disaster prevention, mitigation, planning and public awareness. In particular, the
sub-component will finance the development of: (i) a strategic plan to create and establish a comprehensive
emergency management agency equipped with an operations center and communications and data networks,
and a national earthquake mitigation plan; (ii) a comprehensive emergency management training and
exercise program, and a search and rescue capacity building program; (iii) pilot activities to enhance the
municipal emergency management system; (iv) the replication of the pilot activities on a regional scale; and
(v) a public awareness campaign on appropriate measures to be taken before, during and after an
earthquake.
Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance Scheme (US$273.00 million). The principal development objective
of this sub-component is to support the Government Earthquake Insurance Program with the view of
establishing and expanding national catastrophic risk management and risk transfer capabilities. To meet
these objectives, the sub-component will create an insurance mechanism, which will make liquidity readily
available to real estate tax paying owners of residential dwellings destroyed or damaged by an earthquake
for the purpose of their repairing or replacement; reduce government fiscal exposure and the risk to the
national economy due to major earthquakes; ensure the financial solvency of the Pool after all but the most
catastrophic of events, such as those in excess of the Marmara earthquake; and reduce government
financial dependence on the Bank and other donors' financial assistance in the aftermath of major
earthquakes. To reach these objectives, the project will finance two major activities: (i) technical assistance
to the General Directorate of Insurance (GDI) in establishing a Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool
(TCIP) and ensuring its operational efficiency and financial soundness for the first five years of its
existence; and (ii) initial capitalization of TCIP through a contingent loan facility.
The total World Bank financing under the component is estimated at US$123 million, including a
contingent loan facility amounting to US$100 million to finance insurance claims, premiums for
reinsurance and excess of loss contracts and re-insurance intermediary services for the total of US$20.8,
technical assistance in the establishment of TCIP, and incremental operating costs of US$2.2 million. The
overall annual operating expenses of TCIP for the first year are estimated at around US$ 10 million net of
reinsurance cost and will have to be exclusively financed by the Turkish Government. In addition, the
Government would make a US$0.1 million in-kind contribution toward the operating costs of the TMU,
and pay any taxes/duties on locally procured goods or services. The Bank will finance 100% of eligible
claims, up to US$17 million, to the extent that accumulated premiums are insufficient to fund them, up to
the attachment point of reinsurance of any kind. After that the Bank financing of the retention will be
reduced to 40%, with the remaining 60% to be either financed by GOT or from other sources, mainly
through premium income generated by TCIP. If the losses during the initial years are greater than the funds
built up in the pool, together with any reinsurance or excess of loss reinsurance cover, the Bank will
finance 100% of claims, which cannot be met either by TCIP itself or its reinsurers. The Implementation
Agency for the Project will be TCIP. Implementation will be initiated by the TCIP Management Unit set up
within the General Directorate of Insurance. Milli Reassurance has been selected by the Government to
carry out the operational management of the Pool. Applications for withdrawal under TCIP component will
need to be accompanied by certification that conditions have been met. At the end of five years, if the loan
has not been completely drawn down, the balance may be drawn to develop TCIP capacity to insure against
disasters of larger scale than the Marmara earthquake.
Sub-component A3: Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes (US$11.78 million). This
sub-component's objective is to reduce the vulnerability of the Marmara Earthquake Region to natural
hazards and future disaster losses in Turkey. To achieve this general objective, the sub-component will
support: (i) the review of ongoing modifications in the current legal system and additional modifications as
-9-



required, and (ii) the strengthening of the municipal capability to regulate, plan and implement disaster
resistant development. In particular, this sub-component will finance two studies on the Disaster Law and
the Tender Law, as well as a comparative evaluation of operational practices in the mortage market of
selective countries, key laws and practices that influence site selection for buildings and their construction,
and that are therefore, inherently effective in mitigating future disasters. In addition, a study of the building
code development process in Turkey will be financed, as well as a series of stakeholder seminars on the
topic of "Implementation of Development Regulation for Disaster Reduction and Public Safety". It will also
finance pilot projects in selected municipalities to assist planning and building departments in developing
risk-based municipal master plans, establishing means for effective building code implementation,
developing municipal regulations to ensure that appropriate professional licensing procedures are followed,
developing programs for the evaluation of existing buildings, creating municipal ordinances that mandate
removal of illegal structures, and creating mechanisms to incorporate effective community participation in
the planning process. The pilot municipal projects will include technical assistance for hazard and
vulnerability mapping. A program of targeted training for key decision-makers in the development process
will be provided on a national scale.
Sub-component A4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management (US$24.21 million). The primary
objective of this sub-component is to establish a land information system to support the reconstruction and
development of the Marmara Earthquake Region (Marmara Earthquake Region Land Information System -
MERLIS). In particular, the sub-component will support activities to: (i) supply current and reliable land
information to cope with the post-earthquake situation, and update and improve the obsolete registers and
maps; (ii) facilitate land supply operations, with emphasis on housing schemes and the overall improvement
of the land market. To achieve this, the sub-component will finance production of maps to be used as
source of current information for inventory and immediate planning, renovation of cadastre registers and
maps, and the creation of a database of cadastral information for the Marmara region to help the
reconstruction and future development of the region. To facilitate land supply operations, the
sub-component will strengthen the General Directorate of State Land in the Marmara Earthquake Region in
the form of increased operational capacity of field offices, and institutional improvements.
Component B - Trauma Program for Adults (US$6.89 million). This component will finance the
development of a trauma program for adults to complement the UNICEF/Ministry of Education program
for children financed under the reallocation of the Basic Education Loan. The objectives- are to contribute to
the immediate reduction of the negative effects on health and functional ability among adults affected by the
earthquake, including the restoration of normalized living and working conditions in the affected area,
support the strengthening of community mental health services, including trauma related work, in the
affected region and later across the whole of Turkey, ensuring that the whole country is better prepared for
future disasters, and to support the reconstruction of working life and the reinsertion of adults into the
workforce in the earthquake zone. This will be achieved through: (i) the establishment of community mental
health centers in Izmit, Adapazari, Golcuk and Yalova, staffed by a broad base of mental health
professionals trained in specialised care for trauma victims, and able to provide long term service delivery
of more generalised mental health services. This activity, undertaken in coordination with existing
institutions in the region, will include a public awareness campaign relating to mental health issues and
preparedness for disasters, and a training/information program in the later stages for spreading the
knowledge across Turkey; and (ii) the establishment of a program for psychological and organizational
support to organizations and businesses affected by the earthquake.
Component C - Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu, Kocaeli and Yalova (US$293.32 million).
The principle objective of this component is to assist the Government of Turkey in reconstructing
permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected by the earthquake. The eligibility criteria will
- 1 0 -



follow the provisions of the current Disaster Law. In addition, specific criteria have been adopted for this
project: assistance under this project is limited to collapsed and heavily damaged rural housing and urban
multi family units; investments must be implemented under controlled and sound construction practices,
and utilize appropriate cost effective design standards which protect against future seismic risk;
investments must comply with environmental standards; investments are likely to be implemented in a
timely manner. The component will finance technical assistance, design, supervision, training and
investments to replace collapsed or heavily damaged household units in the urban areas of the provinces of
Bolu and Kocaeli. The cost per unit is estimated around US$20,000 including on-site infrastructure. The
component will finance the reconstruction of about 10,000 units in urban areas. The Borrower is
responsible for providing an update of the damage assessment and eligibility estimates two weeks prior to
the signing of the contracts. Based on this update, the Bank will review the total number of housing units to
be constructed in order to mitigate the risk of over-investments.
In the case of rural housing, the beneficiaries will undertake the construction activities under the
supervision of independent consultants, and purchase the materials. Construction training will be provided,
through which the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction of seismic
resistant buildings. In addition, standard designs will be provided, that cannot be modified without the
approval of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The supervision will be provided either through the
consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, including staff of local offices, as
appropriate. Under this activity, 2,000 household units will be reconstructed in the most affected areas in
the provinces of Kocaeli and Yalova. Only beneficiaries identified before the end of April 2000 will be
eligible for investments in rural housing reconstruction.
Component D - Project Management (US$12.69 million). This component will finance the costs of
expanding and maintaining the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU), set up for the TEFER project,
and its local offices during the whole implementation period.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The MEER project will benefit from the work of a social scientist to be hired
by the PIU as permanent staff to constantly monitor and evaluate the impact of the program on the targeted
population. In addition, to maximize learning, and to respond rapidly to lessons as they emerge, the project
will be monitored and evaluated in two stages towards mid-term and towards the end of the implementation
period. This monitoring and evaluation exercise will (i) provide information about the needs and responses
of beneficiaries and other community members, (ii) give feedback regarding project design, management
and implementation, (iii) evaluate direct project impacts, and (iv) assess the roles of cooperating groups
and the effectiveness of the trauma relief program. Results of the monitoring and evaluation exercise will be
broadly disseminated within the project area and among stakeholders and the public at large. The objectives
of the monitoring and evalaution are first to generate new information about beneficiaries and stakeholders
needed to modify project components or approaches, and second to monitor project implementation and
evaluate project outcomes and impact.
As part of the Framework Program, the following components will be financed by other co-financiers:
Component E - Business Rehabilitation (US$109.72 million). The primary objective is to rehabilitate
businesses damaged by the earthquake, with emphasis on small shops and service establishments. In
particular, the component aims at reestablishing the small commerce sector that is an important part of civil
society, and creating employment through the operation of small businesses. The component will focus on
retail businesses, i.e. shops and other small business establishments such as bakers, grocers, barbers etc.,
and small manufacturing and service enterprises, i.e. businesses with fewer than 10 employees but larger
than the family run shop. It will finance three activities: (i) construction cooperatives of small shop-keepers
- 11 -



and owners of service establishments to build groups of shops or small scale industrial sites; (ii) credit
cooperatives of small businesses to finance replacement of movable assets; (iii) credit for the reconstruction
and rehabilitation of premises of unions of small businesses, and grant financing for the development of a
system of disaster preparedness, and for a public relations campaign connected with the entire proposed
program.
Component F - Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu, Sakarya, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa and
Eskisehir (US$177.07 million). The principle objective of this component is to assist the Government of
Turkey in reconstructing permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected by the earthquake. The
eligibility criteria will follow the provisions of the current Disaster Law. In addition, specific criteria have
been adopted for this project: assistance under this project is limited to collapsed and heavily damaged rural
housing and urban multi family units; investments must be implemented under controlled and sound
construction practices, and utilize appropriate cost effective design standards which protect against future
seismic risk; investments must comply with environmental standards; investments are likely to be
implemented in a timely manner. The component will finance investments to replace collapsed or heavily
damaged household units in the urban areas of the provinces of Sakarya, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa and
Eskisehir. The cost per unit is estimated around US$20,000 including on-site infrastructure. The
component will finance the reconstruction of about 30 percent of the total number of collapsed and heavily
damaged units in urban areas. The Borrower is responsible for providing an update of the damage
assessment and eligibility estimates two weeks prior to the signing of the contracts. Based on this update,
the co-financiers will review the total number of housing units to be constructed in order to mitigate the risk
of over-investments.
In the case of rural housing, the beneficiaries will undertake the construction activities under the
supervision of independent consultants, and purchase the materials. Construction training will be provided,
through which the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction of seismic
resistant buildings. In addition, standard designs will be provided, that cannot be modified without the
approval of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The supervision will be provided either through the
consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, including staff of local offices, as
appropriate. Under this activity, 4,000 household units will be reconstructed in the most affected areas
including the provinces of Bolu and Sakarya. Only beneficiaries identified before the end of April 2000 will
be eligible for investments in rural housing reconstruction.
Component G - Repair of the Existing Housing Stock and Healthcare Facilities (US$632.12 million).
The principal aim of this component is to provide assistance to the GOT in repairing the existing housing
stock and healthcare facilities damaged during the earthquake. This component will finance the structural
repair of about 54,500 medium damaged housing units, which represents about 90% of the damaged units,
including the design and the supervision of the repair works. The structural rehabilitation component covers
the repair of buildings in rural and urban areas which are assessed as medium damaged by inspection teams
of the Ministry of Public Works. Structures which can be repaired with costs that range between 30 and 50
percent of total replacement costs are classified as medium damage. Based on this definition 45 percent of
the replacement cost is used as an average number for the estimated rehabilitation cost per housing unit.
Consultant services are financed for the inspection and assessment of damages including visual and
structural testing. In addition, the service is required for preparation of designs, technical specification,
bidding documents, and supervision of structural rehabilitation works.
In addition, the component covers the repair of hospitals and health facilities. The social insurance program
(SSK) operates several hospitals, polyclinics, and dispensaries in the earthquake zone, which come under
the general supervision of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MLSS), not the Ministry of Health.
- 12 -



The MLSS estimates that 60 percent of the workers covered by SSK in the earthquake zone used
exclusively the SSK hospitals. If reconstruction efforts ignored the SSK hospitals, a significant portion of
earthquake zone residents would be bereft of their regular health services and emergency care. It is
therefore imperative that the damaged SSK health facilities be included in the MEER reconstruction efforts.
Component H - Rebuilding and Repair of Roads, Water, Wastewater, Electricity Distribution
Networks (US$139.73 million). The objective of the component is to restore essential infrastructure in the
municipalities and provinces that have been devastated by the August 17, 1999 earthquake. The component
includes technical assistance, design, supervision and investments to restore essential infrastructure at the
municipal level. It finances repairs and reconstruction of water supply, sewerage and storm water systems,
wastewater treatment plants, electric power distribution systems, and municipal roads and bridges in the
areas most damaged by the earthquake. Minor damages to infrastructure as well as damages that have
already been repaired by the related authorities are not covered under this operation.
Co-financing. The Government of Turkey is in the process of finalizing agreements to secure the total
financing required for the above described Framework Program. The Framework Program and the
co-financing have been organized in such a way that signing of the co-financing agreements will not affect
the overall achievement of the MEER project's objectives.
indletle                          % of
Component                   Sector        Cas t        of   flinancng   Bank-
________________________ .__-           __- _- __.   (JS$M)   - Total     (US$MU   financing
Sub-component Al: National         Institutional     110.17       14.9     95.01       18.8
Emergency Management System        Development
Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance  Institutional  273.00       37.0    123.00       24.4
Scheme                             Development
Sub-component A3: Land Use Planning  Institutional     11.78       1.6      10.61       2.1
and Enforcement of Construction    Development
Codes
Sub-component A4: Cadastre         Institutional      24.21        3.3     20.58        4.1
Renovation and Land Management     Development
Component B: Trauma Program for    Small Scale         6.89        0.9       6.04       1.2
adults                             Enterprise
Component C: Construction of       Other Social      293.32       39.8    234.36       46.4
Permanent Housing in Bolu, Kocaeli    Sector
and Yalova
Component D - Project Management    Urban Housing      12.69        1.7     10.35       2.0
Total Project Costs                  732.06       99.3    499.95 _   99.0
Front-end fee                    5.05        0.7      5.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                   737.11      100.0    505.00      100.0
Component E: Business Rehabilitation  Small Scale    109.72      6.11      0.00       0.00
Enterprise
Component F: Construction of      Urban Housing      177.07      9.86      0.00       0.00
Permanent Housing in Bolu, Sakarya,
Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa and Eskisehir
- 13 -



Component G: Repair of Existing    Urban Housing       632.12      35.20      0.00       0.00
Housing Stock and Healthcare Facilities
Component H: Rebuilding and Repair  Other Water        139.73      7.78       0.00       0.00
of Roads, Water supply Systems,    Supply &
Wastewater Systems, Power          Sanitation
Distribution Networks                                I          I __I__
Total Costs of the Framework Program   1795.75    100.0      0.00       0.00
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The MEER project will support the reform of the national emergency response system by helping the
Government reform the current structure of the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) and
General Directorate of Civil Defense (GDCD), and thereby creating a single agency responsible for
coordinating preparedness, planning and response efforts. Currently, the responsibilities for these functions
are divided principally between the GDDA and the GDCD, which are housed in the Ministry of Public
Works and Settlement and the Ministry of the Interior respectively. To achieve the objective of
comprehensive emergency management, the project is supporting a fusion of the activities of these two
agencies as well as, potentially, activities in other ministries that are integral to the functions of
comprehensive emergency management. After careful assessment, the Bank recommends that the functions
of comprehensive emergency management be assigned to a new agency, the Emergency Management
Agency of Turkey (EMAT), housed in the Ministry of the Interior.
The legal and organizational basis for the system of development control and disaster management in
Turkey is defined by the Development Law, the Disaster Law, and the Tender Law. The Development Law
(No. 3194) and its related regulations define the process of preparation of development plans and their
applications, but makes no significant reference to natural disasters, while the Disaster Law deals primarily
with the aftermath of natural disasters and makes limited reference to pre-disaster mitigation. The Tender
Law sets the conditions for the implementation of public construction projects. The Development Law
makes no reference to natural hazard mitigation or risk management, thus, it provides little authority to
municipalities to protect public safety in buildings. Importantly, the Development Law has no effective
interrelation with the Disaster Law (7269). As a result, the various central government authorities
(ministries and other bodies) that have responsibilities for development, preparation of plans, and
rectification of plans and buildings, are left with an ineffective legal framework for their tasks and without
clear principles of coordination. The project will support the ongoing revisions of this set of legislation to
include the following standards and obligations: (i) establish a program of professional licensing for
building and development professionals, including structural engineers, architects, contractors, building
inspectors and city planners; (ii) allow for a system of out-sourcing technical services for plan review and
site inspection from Municipal Building Departments to private supervisory firms, and establish a process
for the certification of such supervisory firms; (iii) establish requirements for professional liability
insurance to be carried by licensed building professionals and supervisory firms;
(iv) establish specific municipal and professional responsibilities and penalties for failure to carry out those
responsibilities; (v) establish a hierarchy and standardization of national, regional, and municipal plan
documents; (vi) establish the principle of special project zones and the transfer of development rights.
Through the support provided to the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool, the project will also
facilitate a major reform of the Turkish Disaster Law and related legislation that will reduce
government financial exposure and increase its financial preparedness as well as that of households for
major earthquakes, support the development and implementation of the national risk management and
- 14 -



risk transfer strategy, improve the enforcement of the Building Code through insurance mechanisms,
facilitate the development of local earthquake underwriting capacity, and foster the development of
related lines of business, such as professional and liability insurance.
The project will also support a gradual policy change relating to the types and delivery mechanisms
for mental health services in the community through the development of broad based community
mental health delivery mechanisms in the affected area, including the introduction of modern
treatments for trauma counseling and mental illness. Through the project, lessons learnt from the
introduction of these services will be disemminated across the country. In addition, the project will
establish the first non-profit center for the delivery of trauma counseling and stress related
management in the workplace in Turkey.
3. Benefits and target population:
Immediate benefits are the restoration of municipal services, housing and infrastructure serving the millions
of inhabitants in Marmara region. Project investments will enable basic or normal levels of operation of
water supply, electric power supply, wastewater treatment, sewerage and buildings in the target region, and
thereby improve health, safety and environmental conditions for the affected population. In addition, the
Framework Program will support the restoration of SME activities, and therefore the economic recovery of
the affected regions and the GOT budget through increased tax revenues. The recovery of the economy will
be further supported by the increase in trauma counseling services specifically targeted at the earthquake
victims to allow then to return to normal levels of functionality both at home and in the workplace. This
will also help to break the dependency cycle encouraged by life in the tent camps.
The project will directly benefit the displaced persons forced to live in tents after the disaster by
constructing buildings with improved standards and less vulnerability to future earthquakes, and by
introducing techniques designed to restore their confidence in both authorities and quality of construction.
Since the majority of the populations in the tent camps have been shown to be of the lowest socio-economic
groups, these measures will have a direct impact on the poorest members of the community.
Major nation wide public benefits can also be expected from the project, including (i) the strengthening of
the capacity of the government to respond rapidly to priority needs of its citizens in the face of natural
disasters; (ii) the development of a national insurance plan to shift the financial burden of future
reconstruction of housing and infrastructure from the individual families and the government to
international re-insurers, capital markets and to the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool; and (iii)
increased responsibility on the part of the citizens empowered through heightened awareness of the issues
which determine their safety and well being.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation Unit. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is responsible for the overall
implementation of the project. It is established within the Prime Minister's office, and managed by a
Director who reports directly to the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. The Director is responsible for
hiring the staff of the PIU subject to pre-approval by the Bank. The PIU implements the project under the
overall policy guidance of a Steering Committee (see below) and in close coordination with related
Ministries and Agencies.
The PIU serves as a secretariat to the Steering Committee, prepares the working documents for the
meetings of the Steering Committee, and submits quarterly progress reports to the Prime Minister, the
Steering Committee and the Bank. The PIU will establish local offices in the Marmara region, prepare
- 15-



bidding documents and contracts for construction works, goods and consultancy services, and monitor the
compliance with Turkish and World Bank environmental regulations.
Steering Committee. The Steering Committee (SC) is chaired by the Minister of Public Works and
Settlement (MPWS), and consist of the State Minister responsible for the Housing Development Agency,
the State Minister responsible for Social Services, the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Minister of
Interior, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, the Undersecretary of Treasury, the Undersecretary of
the State Planning Organization (SPO), the Governors of Istanbul, Kocaeli, Adapazari, Yalova and Bolu,
and Mayors of the relevant cities and towns.
The Committee will be responsible for providing advice and policy guidance to the Undersecretary of the
Prime Minister overseeing the PIU. It will also review quarterly progress reports, approve proposals for
reallocation of funds prepared by the PIU, and submit them to the Bank for "no-objection".
Local Offices. In order to streamline and effectively manage implementation of the Project, the PIU will
establish at least three local offices in the areas most severely affected by the earthquake. The PIU local
offices (PIU-LO) will be set up in Istanbul, Izmit, Yalova, and Adapazari. These local offices will closely
monitor the implementation of the project in their respective areas.
Financial Management Arrangements. Except for the Disaster Insurance Scheme sub-component, which
will be separately managed by Milli Reassurance, the implementing agencies for all other components will
be coordinated by the PIU, currently under the Housing Development Agency (HDA), but to be moved
under the Prime Minister's Office. This PIU has been implementing the Loan 4388-TU Emergency Flood
and Earthquake Recovery (TEFER) since August 1998, and has substantial experience in implementing
Bank projects and also has demonstrated its ability to establish and maintain a financial management
system in compliance with the requirements of the Bank. At present, the PIU Accounting Department,
where the disbursement process is also centralized, is composed of a Financial Director and two
accountants. However, given the increased workload for the MEER project, additional staff is needed.
Beside the technical staff needed for monitoring the various project activities (implemented by several
Ministries/Agencies), additional financial management staff will include an accountant and a financial
analyst position. This need is also confirmed by the results of an assessment recently conducted for the
TEFER project by a private consultant, highlighting actions for strengthening the financial management
procedures and the filing system currently in use.
Although the project will be disbursing according to the traditional procedures, the PIU has, over the last
three quarters, prepared Project Management Reports (PMRs). However, the PMR preparation process is
labor-intensive and time-consuming and offers, in turn, very little support to project management, as it is
the result of semi-manual activities. A new integrated accounting software, equipped with budget and
cost-accounting modules and a PMR reporting facility, will be purchased under the project and will allow
timely and efficient report generation; this package will be eventually used also for the TEFER project.
These activities will be entirely financed under the project (Component D). The steps and actions needed to
implement the described activities are documented in a time-bound Action Plan agreed with the Borrower.
The implementation agency for the insurance component will be the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool
(TCIP), a semi-independent body to be established by the Government of Turkey. The TCIP will be formed
as a new independent public sector institution by Government decree in response to a provision envisaged
by the Government in the Disaster Law. While TCIP is being established, implementation will be initiated
by TCIP Management Unit (TMU) set up within the GDI for monitoring the performance of the Pool
Management Company and implementing the Bank-financed insurance component under the project.
- 16 -



During the preparation and implementation stages of the insurance component, the TMU will provide
accounting and financial reporting services in support of disbursements from the Bank contingent insurance
facility. The PIU will assist with the procurement of goods and services purchased under the Bank loan.
Accounting and financial reporting services for all technical assistance related activities under the insurance
component will be provided by the PIU. The national reinsurance company, Milli Re, has been appointed
by the Government as the manager of Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool subject to the to approval by
Milli Re's board. Milli Re was formed in 1929 based on compulsory cession by Turkish insurers. It has a
successful track record as the manager of several pools, including FAIR (Federation of Afro-Asian Insurers
and Re-Insurers). Regarding accounting, Milli Re is following the accrual basis of accounting, and
following the chart of accounts developed by Treasury for the insurance and reinsurance companies. Milli
Re's financial statements are audited by the Government auditors and private external audit firm annually.
Milli Re holds the central position in the Turkish insurance industry and has strong management and good
technical expertise. However, Milli Re will implement the Action Plan in Annex D of the Project
Implementation Plan to strengthen its accounting, and internal controls.
Under the project, technical assistance will be provided to the TCIP Management Unit (TMU) within GDI
and to Milli Re to set up the TCIP business and information systems, draft operational guidelines and a
business plan.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Timing. To process the project as a normal lending operation was rejected due to the need to make
funds available for urgent repairs and infrastructure investments as soon as possible, to improve living
conditions and mitigate, insofar as possible, damages from future catastrophic events.
Reconstruction Relief Program without Policy Changes. The possibility of designing a project that
would not include any policy changes or the introduction of an insurance scheme was considered. This
alternative was rejected because of the following limitations given the impact of the earthquake and the
reasons for the level of devastation. Firstly, due to the country exposure limits, the Bank cannot provide
all needed liquidity in cases of large catastrophic events, which frequently leave the Government short
of billions of dollars in urgently needed financial resources. Secondly, due to the size of emergency
loans, they tend to crowd out other important development lending programs which either have to be
postponed or substantially reduced. Finally, excessive government reliance on the Bank retroactive
lending and emergency donor relief can no longer be considered sustainable in light of the frequent and
systemic nature of major catastrophic events in Turkey. It was therefore decided to include a
sub-component dealing with the setting up of an insurance scheme to benefit from the momentum
created by the tragic events in August.
Regarding policy change, all the damage assessment undertaken in the aftermath of the earthquake
pointed to a series of institutional failures that contributed enormously to the heavy loss of life and
destruction of infrastructure in the region. Hence, it was considered that it would not be responsible to
provide financing for the reconstruction of the area without ensuring that at least some of the
institutional issues from disaster response to the better enforcement of building codes at the local level,
would be addressed.
Government Support Program to Small Businesses. In the case of the rehabilitation of small businesses,
it was considered to use the existing program of government support executed through Halkbank. This
- 17 -



approach was rejected because, under the government program, the already existing interest rate subsidy on
lending to the small business sector is further reduced and appropriate targeting of the assistance remains
questionable. Under the Framework Program, it was therefore decided to target a combination of grants and
credits to the small businesses members of TESK, the national association of guilds, that have documented
evidence of loss and to extend the credit part of the assistance at positive real interest rates.
Institutional Support to the Turkish Psychologists Association (TPA). The team considered providing
support to the TPA for the professionalisation of their services in trauma counseling in the affected area
since they have arguably been the most effective organisation in delivering care in the immediate aftermath
of the earthquake. This was rejected, however, on grounds of needing to build up the long term community
based care delivery mechanisms. It was decided that the TPA is not best set up for that purpose, since it is
an association of professionals which has the flexibility to provide short term volunteer services but it not
designed for long term service delivery.
Institutional and Financial Arrangements. Direct project management and implementation by a national
government ministry was rejected in favor of a PIU due to the multiple agencies involved in the
implementation and to the benefits to be gained from an experienced PIU.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervsion
Sector Issue           a          Project                XPSR) Ratings
_____________________________ .:_ _ _ _ : :;b;:i       t0f(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan proposed
(EERL)
Turkey Emergency Flood and         Loan No. 438 8-TU                 S             S
Earthquake Recovery Project (TEFER)
Erzincan Emergency Earthquake and   Loan No. 3511 -TU                S             S
Reconstruction Project
Road Improvement and Safety Project Loan No. 4048-TU                 S             S
TEK Restructuring Project          Loan No. 3345-TU                  S             S
National Transmission Grid Project    Loan No. 4344-TU               S             S
Employment and Training Project   Loan No. 3541 -TU                  S             S
Basic Education Project           Loan No. 4355-TU                   U             U
Primary Health Care Services Project  Loan No. 420 1-TU              U             U
Health II Project                 Loan No. 3802-TU
Other development agencies
UNDP                                                           1
Small Business Rehabilitation      proposed
Rubble/debris collection, storage and   proposed
recycling
Temporary Housing                  proposed
UNICEF
Child care and trauma counseling   ongoing
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 18 -



The Bank teams, UNDP, UNICEF and the European Union (which may provide some additional
co-financing) have worked in close cooperation throughout the development of the related programs to
maximize their effectiveness for the beneficiaries in all respects.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank-wide experience has shown that reconstruction of damaged infrastructure alone is imperative but
insufficient, and that measures are needed to reduce the risk of similar future disasters and to safeguard
people at risk. A second lesson is that, while quick response to disaster is important, it is equally important
to identify underlying problems and determine how to resolve them in ways that result in long-term
sustainable solutions. In several Bank projects sustainability of infrastructure investments was questioned
because of the projects' failure to address long-term mitigation measures. It has been widely recognized that
the benefits of long-term disaster management versus the costs of repeated short-term post-disaster
reconstruction should be taken into account during any emergency operation.
The most immediate need following a disaster is likely to be shelter, first a tent and then a dwelling. Yet the
housing components of most emergency loans have created an intensive debate in the Bank as to what
extent the Bank should finance a private good and to what extent disaster recipients of a replacement
dwelling should be required to contribute to their own relief in the form of upfront contributions followed
by repayments over time, i.e. a loan. A review of past emergency loan projects (Columbia Popayan,
Mexico Earthquake, Jamaican Hurricane Emergency Reconstruction, El Salvador Earthquake) does reveal
the following:
1) A speedy response is imperative. This requirement for rapid response carries several implications. For
instance, the investment that produces the most rapid response may not be the least expensive.
2) Cost recovery objectives will be difficult to achieve. It is natural for a government to wish for
contributions from individuals benefiting from disaster assistance. Any form of contribution is however
difficult to achieve. A requirement for upfront contributions would deny assistance to those who cannot
contribute. The best solution seems to be to construct to an acceptable inhabitable standard and assume
that additional costs will be under-written by the beneficiary. Under this operation, there are two elements
of cost recovery in this component: (i) repayment of loans to disaster victims, and (ii) beneficiary
contributions. The disaster legislation stipulates that disaster beneficiaries will repay loans in 20 years,
including a 2-year grace period with 0.0% interest. Assuming an annual inflation at 20%, the cost recovery
of the disaster loan is approximately 18.6%. The second cost recovery element is voluntary beneficiary
participation in the cost of construction which is expected to average US$4,500 or 18.4% of the estimated
unit cost of construction of housing in urban areas, and US$3,000 or 26% beneficiary participation in the
rural housing. The composite cost recovery is calculated at 34. 1 %.
While preparing the disaster management system sub-component, examples from various nations that have
a substantial earthquake risk have been reviewed, and the following common elements have been identified
and recommended: (i) need for developing municipal and provincial capabilities; (ii) need for a single
national agency in charge of the coordination of preparedness, planning, response and recovery activities,
directly linked either to the Executive branch of the government or the Ministry of the Interior; (iii) need for
developing a national risk reduction strategy that identifies risk and mitigation priorities; (iv) and need for
developing an aggressive public education and hazard awareness program to inform residents regarding the
nature of risk and appropriate actions to take at the time of an emergency.
- 19 -



The project will support the Government Earthquake Insurance Program drawing on international
experience of successful efforts in raising the financial preparedness of nations for major catastrophic
events. The New Zealand and California Earthquake Authorities are the prime examples. Responding to a
market failure to provide adequate insurance coverage for residential properties in earthquake-prone areas,
these institutions found ways to establish affordable and yet actuarially sound pricing of such insurance
products. The success of these agencies in many respects is due to their ability to achieve high rates of
enrollment either through a mandatory minimal property insurance coverage, as in New Zealand, or by
maintaining a high level of public awareness in the case of California. These institutions have transfered
away large portions of risk using reinsurance of different kinds, arranged for stand-by liquidity facilities,
and both have considered the use of capital market instruments.
Experience from previous emergency projects also show that, while expediency is required in the rebuilding
of the housing stock to ensure adequate shelter for large numbers of people in a short space of time, public
consultation is an important part of the process and should be included, both to avoid long term social
problems and also to increase confidence in the building process itself.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In August 1999, the GOT requested the Bank's assistance to develop a project to provide financing and
technical assistance for earthquake recovery and protection on an urgent basis. Based on discussions with
the Treasury and the General Directorate of Disasters Affairs, the Bank and the GOT have agreed the key
points relating to the loan amount, GOT co-funding of the project, allocation of funds, disbursement
arrangements, implementing arrangements and flow of funds, main project components and priority
actions, and project preparation. In addition, the GOT has formed a Steering Committee to supervise and
accelerate the pace of project preparation.
The GOT has demonstrated ownership of the project through sustained high level commitment of the many
agencies and regional/municipal governments concerned, and by rapidly appointing the existing PIU,
created under the TEFER project, to assist with preparation and implementation of the MEER project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
With the experience gained under the TEFER project, the Bank brings to the process of reconstruction and
recovery an organizational framework and clear process for identifying, selecting and implementing priority
investments for municipal/rural infrastructure and emergency response management. The project will help
to mobilize and target other resources for earthquake reconstruction. Through the emergency project, the
Bank can provide critical funding when it is most needed. By supporting expanded use of liability and
houseowner's insurance, the Bank is able to contribute to the development of a GOT strategy to raise
construction standards and to provide long term sustainable financing for future housing reconstruction.
The Bank is also in a unique position among donors to retain an overall view of reconstruction/recovery
requirements and has, again, a unique ability to focus on policy and institutional reform and the economic
and social aspects of reconstruction as well as the physical.
- 20 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
n/a
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
n/a
Fiscal Impact:
n/a
3. Technical:
The project's technical design is well suited to Turkey's requirements for rapid investment for repair of
municipal infrastructure, and disaster hazard reduction. Specific investment identification and cost
estimates have been calculated on the basis of data compiled and analyzed by the preparation and appraisal
missions, and reflect the priorities and costs identified by local government and technical agencies, within
an acceptable margin of error for costs. Allowances are made for physical and price contingencies
consistent with rapid disbursement for infrastructure repair and emergency planning.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Prime Minister's Office. The organizational location of the PIU within the Prime Minister's Office will
allow for better coordination with the Ministries and other governmental agencies involved in implementing
the project, which is necessary due to the scale and multi-sectoral dimension of the project.
Ministry of Public Works and Settlements (MPWS). The Minister of Public Works will chair the
Steering Committee of the project. In addition, the MPWS will constitute a key factor in the successful
implementation of several components, i.e. the Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes,
the Construction of Permanent Housing, and Repair of Existing Housing Stock and Healthcare Facilities
sub-components. The MPWS is the best suited for this role due to its general responsibility for land, and
disaster management related issues.
Ministry of Interior (MOI). The MOI will be the leading implementing agency for the Emergency
Management and Response System sub-component. The training function of the General Directorate of
Civil Defense within the MOI will be enhanced, and can serve as a basis for intensive training efforts to be
done at the local level. In addition, there are significant international precedents for housing the emergency
management function within the Ministry of Interior.
General Directorate of Insurance (GDI). The GDI will play a leading role for the implementation of the
Disaster Insurance Scheme sub-component. The selection of GDI for this role results from a thorough
analysis of the insurance market in Turkey. Being a national level public agency responsible for insurance
related issues, GDI seems to be the most suitable entity to create, with the support from the project, the
Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP) providing a compulsory earthquake cover for registered
-21 -



dwellings throughout the country. The technical assistance and training will be provided from the loan
proceeds to enhance effective introduction of the foreseen Catastrophic Insurance Program. The challenge
for the GDI is to maintain its oversight over the TCIP, Milli Re. and the scheme, without interventions
which would compromise the independence and financial viability of the TCIP.
Ministry of Health (MOH). The MOH will carry out the activities financed under the Adult Trauma
sub-component. Since the sub-component will tackle the problem of trauma and other mental health related
disaster effects, the Ministry of Health is a natural choice as the execution agency, that will coordinate the
support for the mental health institutions. Moreover, the MOH is currently implementing the UNICEF
financed trauma program for children, therefore may easily extend its oversight function to the
implementation of this sub-component.
TEDAS (Turkish Electricity Distribution Company). TEDAS will execute the activities related to the
repair and replacement of the Electricity Distribution Networks. Being the national level institution with
established working relations with its subsidiaries, including the local distribution companies operating in
the affected areas, TEDAS is well equipped to coordinate the activities envisaged under the C3
sub-component. The other analyzed option was to designate its subsidiaries as implementing agents. This
alternative was rejected due to current organizational structure of electricity distribution and complexity of
such an arrangement.
Directorate General of Land Registry and Cadastre (T.C. Basbakanlik Tapu ve Kadastro Genel
Mfudiirlugii - TKGM). TKGM will be responsible for the implementation of the Cadastre Renovation and
Land Management sub-component. The TKGM is a central government agency with regional and local
offices, which closely cooperate with municipal planning departments and other relevant municipal offices.
Since land registry and cadastre in Turkey are within the scope of the responsibility of the Directorate, it is
the best suited organization to lead the implementation of this sub-component.
Municipalities. Selected municipalities will be the main implementing agents for the Municipal
Infrastructure investments. Specific investments of high priority for municipal and provincial governments
have been identified and reviewed by international and local experts. That programming and execution
method was successful in case of the TEFER project and other Bank projects supporting the creation and
restoration of municipal infrastructure.
Steering Committee. The Steering Committee will provide advise and policy guidance for the project. It
mirrors the composition of the committee established for the TEFER project. The positive results of that
project and its institutional and implementation arrangements have been used as a model to design the
institutional arrangements for the MEER.
b. Project management:
Project Implementation Unit. This PIU is the same unit that successfully managed the implementation of
the Erzincan Project under Loan 351 1-TU and the TEFER Project under Loan 4388-TU. Under the
TEFER project, the PIU has proved to be able to handle a considerable amount of activities with
competence and in accordance to Bank rules. The competent handling of the procurement process has
allowed for significant savings that have permitted the reallocation of funds approved by the Board for the
reconstruction of the Marmara region. The existing PIU will establish local offices in the affected areas,
and will be reinforced by additional staff, in particular a team responsible for monitoring procurement, an
External Relations Officer, and staff responsible for managing the computerized financial monitoring and
management system. In addition, the PIU will hire consultants to support the implementation of the
business rehabilitation sub-component.
- 22 -



5. Social:
The social impacts of the earthquake have been particularly harsh, as witnessed by the results of the social
survey (see annex I 1) which showed that the majority of those living in the tent camps were from
socio-economic groups least able to cope with loss of home, income and social support networks. Hence, it
is anticipated that the project will have positive social impacts as a result of the restoration of basic
infrastructure providing housing, wastewater treatment, and water supply.
In brief, the social survey made the following observations which have been addressed in the project design
as follows: high level of uncertainty and anxiety amongst the displaced population as to what their futures
will hold - this has been addressed by including public information campaigns for health services and
disaster response and preparedness, and a participatory project evaluation for amendment to project design
at mid and end points to empower the local population; low level of trust in authorities, both Government
and construction industry resulting in people with undamaged homes living in camps (6%) and unwilling to
return to repaired housing (19%), or low level of trust in damage assessments - this has been addressed by
developing a project component specifically aimed at informing public about damage assessments, bringing
in international experts to work alongside local assessors and providing training to assessors on how to
communicate effectively with the public, public participation in design of new communities and supervision
of building works, public information concerning building codes and requirements; unwillingness to move
out of the region, even for a temporary period - this suggested to drop the idea of encouraging people to
use option of hotels in other regions for temporary housing.
Resettlement. The project does not involve involuntary resettlement. Under Turkish law, only those
affected by an earthquake who request new housing to be provided by the government in another location
are eligible for housing. The families who will receive housing under the project are therefore moving
voluntarily and at their own request, not being resettled involuntarily.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category LI A E C
DB O FI
The overall environmental impact of the MEER project is expected to be very positive, in that it supports
the restoration of necessary municipal infrastructure, including water supply and wastewater treatment in
the cities heavily damaged by the earthquake. Potentially negative environmental issues are primarily
associated with component C (Physical Reconstruction). Under this component, environmental issues may
arise in connection with the construction of new permanent housing. The types of environmental issues
faced within component C include land clearing for site preparation, movement of workers, equipment and
materials to and from project site, proper disposal of debris and damaged equipment (including power
cables and transformers), proper design of reconstructed or repaired water supply systems, sewerage and
storm water systems, wastewater treatment systems, and streets and bridges.
Compliance with environmental requirements of Turkey and the Bank will be achieved in the following
way. In the PIU, an Environmental Specialist hired under the TEFER project will be responsible for
screening the specific investments eligible for financing under this operation. The list of investments is
included in Annex A of the PIP. Initial assessments carried out by the project team, including road and
municipal infrastructure engineers, and the Bank environmental specialist's review during appraisal show
that no major environmental impacts are foreseen. Moreover, the PIU Environmental Specialist will be
responsible for reviewing the project list and assuring that environmental requirements as stipulated in
Turkish environmental law and ordinances are followed. Funding for continuation of the services of the
Environmental Specialist is included in the MEER budget for the PIU, together with resources for other
- 23 -



studies and additional assessments that might be identified by the Environmental Specialist as necessary.
It is the responsibility of the Environmental Specialist in the PIU to include environmental aspects in TORs
for contracts. Under the supervision plan an environmental specialist from the Bank will be reviewing and
providing environmental clearance for projects.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
This project has been prepared in close collaboration with GOT ministries and technical agencies, and
provincial and municipal officials were consulted in order to define the project, assess investments needs,
prioritize actions, and develop an implementation plan. Project concept and priority investments have been
further developed by local consultants in very close cooperation with local governments. Priorities were
confirmed by local councils as well as technical agencies. For the business rehabilitiation part of the
Framework Program, thorough consultation took place with owners of small businessess lost or damaged
during the earthquake, many of whom were living in tent camps, and also with the guilds, chambers of
commerce and other associations for the needs assessment and design of the component. For the trauma
component of the MEER project, the population in the tent camps was consulted in terms of needs through
the social survey and the professional community in terms of service delivery and requirements.
Primary beneficiaries are the local population physically or economically displaced by the earthquake.
Their participation will be sought in the design of the communities which are being rebuilt for them during
the planning process, and for some basic supervision of the construction to ensure that needs of the
speicific populations are met and confidence in durability of their new dwellings assured. They will also be
consulted mid-way through the process conceming the effectiveness of the project and for design
modication. This will be done for several components through a combination of survey, client interview and
focus groups.
b. Other key stakeholders:
All stakeholder groups affected by the project have had an opportunity to contribute to the project design
through their local governments and representatives or through involvement of the relevant technical
agencies.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Factors critical to the sustainability of the project include strong motivation on the part of national, regional
and local governments to implement quickly earthquake recovery and risk reduction measures to enhance
public health and safety and to limit future economic losses. The improved enforcement of quality
standards and the introduction of building codes will contribute to the sustainability of the project in an
earthquake prone country. The introduction of liability and compulsory property insurance will shift the
financial burden of natural disasters to the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool, which in turn will arrange
for risk transfer to the global reinsurance and capital markets, and will buid up national earthquake
reserves. The emphasis on professionalizing the trauma counseling services within existing local
organisations instead of either establishing new ones or focusing on strengthening the volunteer services is
designed to ensure long term sustainability.
-24 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                  Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Sub-component Al:                        M         - a dated covenant has been included in
- the GOT will not issue a decree                  the loan agreement
establishing the Emergency
Management Agency of Turkey
(EMAT), repeal Law No. 7269-1051
and the related statutes or regulations
Sub-component A2:                         S        - reinsurance contracts will be placed
- a major earthquake with impact in                with third parties and some risk will be
excess of the Marmara event occurs in              transferred to capital markets
early years of TCIP's existence
- TCIP fails to reach the level of market  M       - intensive technical assistance and close
penetration agreed upon with the Bank              monitoring of its market penetration will
or falls short of enforcing the timely             be provided to the TCIP in the first
collection of premiums                             years of its operations
- the Government is unable to resist     M         - the proposed financial design of the
political pressures to turn TCIP into an           project provides strong financial
indiscriminate liquidity conduit to                disincentives for that type of a policy
victims of a major earthquake in the               action
future, regardless of the terms of their
coverage under the program
Sub-component A3:                        M         - the project will finance the
- the ongoing revision of the set of               dissemination of the lessons learned
legislation regulating disaster                    from the Erzincan project to stimulate
management will not include                        the debate among stakeholders
recommended standards and obligations
Sub-component B:                         M         - the program will be reviewed during
- the program offered does not                     implementation to ensure that it
correspond to the needs of the                     corresponds to the needs expressed by
population                                         the targeted population
Component C:                              S        - the Government is in the process of
- availability of suitable sites                   providing sites, conducting studies and
surveys, and coordinating its activities
with local and regional authorities
From Components to Outputs
- timely implementation, rapid           M         - the existing TEFER PIU will be used
procurement                                        to serve as the agency in charge of
implementing the project. It has been
expanded to cope with the additional
work to be done under MEER
Overall Risk Rating                       S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 25 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Significant legal, regulatory and institutional reform to be supported by the emergency operation: In
addition to physical reconstruction and restoration of normal socio-economic conditions, the project
recognizes the urgent need to support rapid reform of the legal and regulatory system underlying emergency
management, housing and liability insurance, and land use and building code enforcement in order to
minimize risk and damages, reduce the government's future financial liability, and begin to improve its
ability to respond more effectively to natural disasters.
Selection of municipalities for housing and infrastructure investments: The communities benefiting from
investments financed by this project and the types of investments identified have been selected on the basis
of damage by the earthquake, assessments of needs by the Bank team, priorities expressed by local
government representatives, and eligibility of beneficiaries for replacement housing according to Turkish
law.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There are no effectiveness conditions.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions of Disbursement of Sub-component A2:
*  No withdrawal shall be made for the Reinsurance Premiums unless Reinsurance Transaction has been
concluded by TCIP with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
*  No withdrawal shall be made under the National Catastrophic Insurance Program unless the following
conditions are in place:
I . The Borrower has amended the Disaster Law to limit the Government's future liability to the
reconstruction of residential property ineligible for coverage under the TCIP in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
2. The Borrower has adopted TCIP legal framework (the law(s), decrees and/or regulations for the
establishment, administration and operation of TCIP) in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank and such framework has entered into effect.
3. TCIP has been established and the members of its Board of Directors have been appointed.
4. The subsidiary loan agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and TCIP in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5. TCIP has entered into a Reinsurance transaction.
6. TCIP has adopted the Operations Manual and the standard form of Agency Agreement in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
7. TCIP has executed a Pool Management Agreement with Milli Re.
8. TCIP has issued Earthquake Insurance Policies to Earthquake Insurance Holders, one of the
Covered Risks has occurred and the Bank has been provided with satisfactory evidence that
Eligible Claims have been filed.
9. A senior officer of TCIP has provided to the Bank a satisfactory certificate in support of the
application for withdrawal.
Dated Covenants:
-26 -



* The Borrower shall transfer the PIU to the Prime Minister's Office and provide all necessary resources
to enable the PIU to be operational by November 30, 1999.
* The Borrower shall establish, not later than March 31, 2000, at least three local offices of the PIU in
the cities as agreed with the Bank.
* The Borrower shall, not later than November 22, 1999, establish and thereafter maintain the
Emergency Management Agency for Turkey (EMAT).
* The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2000, prepare and submit to the Parliament
amendments to the Disaster Law, Development Law and Tender Law in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.
* The Borrower shall, not later than December 15, 1999, establish the Marmara Earthquake Region
Land Information System Committee.
* The Borrower shall, not later than November 30, 1999, select potential sites in size and location
satisfactory to the Bank for the construction of urban household units in Golcuk, Izmit and Adapazari.
* The mid-term review of the Project will take place on May 31, 2001.
H. Readiness for Implementation
KL 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
11 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
O 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Piotr M. Wilczyni                Jose h R. Goldberg                Ajay Chhibber
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Direc r            Country Manager/Director
- 27 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
l-lrarchy of- 5 Obetie            Iniatr              Mnto           EvaIuaton;    ritical Assmptions 
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*the project responds to an
unanticipated emergency
situation, it is not therefore
included in the current CAS
*support social development  *upgrading health services,
and provision of effective
social protection
esustain private sector growth *removal of weaknesses in the
legal, regulatory and
institutional frameworks
*protect the environment   orehabilitation and upgrading
of water supply and
sanitation infrastructure
- 28 -



Ky P6&a.c
H  erarchy of Objectives         Ind_oatom   N.:       onitorn                    Cra EvatuatAsumpton -
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
*help restore the living  *reduction of damages to   *PSR                       *project implementation will
conditions in the region of    physical infrastructure and   *monitoring and evaluation    be sufficiently advanced
Turkey that was affected by   housing in the event of  exercise                 when a future earthquake
the August 17, 1999        future earthquakes,                                  hits
Marmara earthquake,       especially to the most recent
support economic recovery    constructions
and resumption of growth,
and develop an institutional
framework for disaster risk
management and mitigation
*prompt recovery of the social
sector
*timely replacement of
housing units affected by the
earthquake
- 29 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:          Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
Component A - Disaster
Response System and Risk
Mitigation
Sub-component Al:
*create a comprehensive   *creation of a comprehensive  *independent assessments    *the Government adopts the
emergency management      emergency management       prepared by consultants     Council of Ministers' decree
structure that focuses on the   agency equipped with an  financed under the     that establishes the
coordination and integration  operations center and  sub-component              Emergency Management
of risk reduction strategies,   communications and data   *PSRlsupervision missions  Agency for Turkey
preparedness, response and   networks, and with trained
recovery                  staff in emergency
management
*development of a national
earthquake mitigation plan
*strengthened search and
rescue capacity
Ilessons learned from pilot
activities developed at the
municipal level, and their
application on a regional
scale
*increased awareness among
citizens of the measures to be
taken before, during and
after an earthquake
- 30 -



Sub-component A2:         *facilitate a major reform of  *supervision reports   *a major earthquake with
*create an insurance        the Turkish Disaster Law                             impact in excess of the
mechanism, which will make  and related legislation that                        Marmara event does not
liquidity readily available to   will reduce govermnent                         occur in early years of TCIP'
real estate tax paying owners  financial exposure and                           s existence
of residential dwellings  increase its financial                               *TCIP reaches the level of
destroyed or damaged by an   preparedness as well as that                       market penetration agreed
-arthquake for the purpose of of households for major                           upon with the Bank or
their repairing or        earthquakes                                           succeeds in enforcing the
replacement              *support the development and                            timely collection of
oreduce government fiscal    implementation of the                                premiums
exposure and the risk to the   national risk management                        *the Government is able to
national economy due to   and risk transfer strategy by                          resist political pressures to
major earthquakes         providing technical                                   turn TCIP into an
*ensure the financial solvency  assistance for the start-up of                    indiscriminate liquidity
of the Pool after all but the    TCIP                                            conduit to victims of a major
most catastrophic of events, *improve the enforcement of                         earthquake in the future.
such as those in excess of the  the Building Code through                        regardless of the terms of
Marmara earthquake        insurance mechanisms                                   their coverage under the
*reduce government financial ofacilitate the development of                       program
dependence on the Bank and  local earthquake
other donors' financial   underwriting capacity, and
assistance in the aftermath of foster the development of
major earthquakes         related lines of business,
such as professional and
liability insurance
Sub-component A3:         spassing of the relevant    *supervision reports       *stakeholders participation
*reduce the vulnerability of    legislation
the Sea of Marmara/Kocaeli *holding of seminars of
Region to potential future    stakeholders
Jisasters                econsultation among
*promote the reduction of   stakeholders
losses from extreme events
Sub-component A4:         *renovated land registration
*establish a land information   and cadastre in the Marmara
system as a tool for      region strengthened
reconstruction and        operational units of the
development of the Marmara  General Directorate of State
Earthquake Region         Land to speed up the land
(Marmara Earthquake       supply process
Region Land Information
System - MERLIS)
- 31 -



Component B - Trauma      *number of people treated    *monitoring and evaluation   *the program offered does not
Program for Adults        *degree of satisfaction of the   exercise              correspond to the needs of
*contribute to the immediate  treatment received     *supervision reports       the population
reduction of the negative    ecommunity satisfaction with
effects on health and     the program
functional ability among  *establishment and operation
adults affected by the    of a non-profit center
earthquake, including the    *delivery of training services
restoration of normalized  to 300 healthcare
living and working        professionals
conditions in the affected    *raised awareness of the
area                      population in mental
*support the strengthening of  healthcare issues
Community Mental health
services, including trauma
related work, in the affected
region and later across the
whole of Turkey
* ,upport the reconstruction of
working life and the
reinsertion of adults into the
workforce in the earthquake
zone.
Component C - Construction  035% for urban housing   oquarterly reports         oavailability of suitable sites
of Permanent Housing in    reconstruction work and                              oclose cooperation between
Bolu, Yalova and Kocaeli   15% of rural housing                                  relevant local, regional and
*reconstruction of urban and   reconstruction work is                            national authorities
rural housing unit        completed                                           *list of beneficiaries provided
*reconstruction of 10,000                             to the PIU
urban housing units
completed after the second
year
*65% of rural housing
reconstruction work is
completed after the second
year
*2,000 rural housing units
completed after third year
Component D - Project     otimely implementation of the quarterly reports during the   *implementation agreements
Management                 project, in accordance with  first year; and then half yearly  signed
procurement and
disbursement guidelines
- 32 -



FRAMEWORK
PROGRAM
*physical reconstruction of at *PIU reports             *economy rehabilitates to
Component E - Business       least 4,000 shops and 500    *quarterly reports sent to the   pre-earthquake level
Rehabilitation               service establishments      Bank                       *creation of satisfactory
*reestablish the small      *rehabilitation and restart of  *reports from the special  cooperatives
commerce sector that is an    at least 6,000 small      monitoring capability      *public awareness
important part of civil     businesses                *PSR                         *establishment of a
society                   *reconstruction of at least one                           labor-intensive
*create employment through   lost building for the                                   implementing organization.
the operation of small      provincial union of small                              in the PIU
businesses                  business guilds, and
rehabilitation of at least
three damaged buildings
*replacement of lost
equipment for at least 3
provincial unions
*establishment of a
satisfactory technical
assistance to rehabilitate
human resources and
strengthen disaster response
capabilities of the
organizations in all affected
provinces
Component F - Construction   *3 5% for urban housing    *quarterly reports          *availability of suitable sites
of Permanent Housing in      reconstruction work and                                *close cooperation between
Bolu, Sakarya, Yalova,       15% of rural housing                                    relevant local, regional and
Istanbul, Bursa, and Eskisehir  reconstruction work is                               national authorities
*reconstruction of urban and   completed                                            *list of beneficiaries provided
rural housing unit        ereconstruction of 6,300                                  to the PIU
urban housing units com
pleted after the second year
*65% of rural housing
reconstruction work is
completed after the second
year
*2,000 rural housing units
completed after third year
Component G - Rebuilding   *20% of the repair work is   *quarterly reports          ono further major earthquake
and Repair of Roads, Water,   completed after the first year                         or aftershocks
Wastewater, Electricity     *60% of the repair work is                              econfirmation from the
Distribution Networks        completed after the second                              MPWS that 51% of the users
*rehabilitation of housing   year                                                    of each building has
units and health facilities    *repair of 54,600 housing                            consented on the proposed
units                                                   works
*repair of the nine selected
hospitals and health facilities
is completed
- 33 -



Component H - Rebuilding    030 % of damaged water       *quarterly reports during the  *no further major earthquake
and Repair of Roads, Water,   supply and waste water       first year, and then half   or aftershocks
Wastewater, Electricity       networks, and roads is      yearly
Distribution Networks         repaired and reconstructed
*repair and reconstruction of   after the first year; 80% after
water supply and waste water the second year; 100% after
networks, and municipals    the third years
roads                      *30 % of damaged electricity
*repair and replacement of    distribution facilities is
electricity distribution    repaired; 70% after the
facilities                  second year; 100% after the
third year
- 34 -



Hierafthy of Objectves .i-                          Montoing &Evaluatin  .Ctitta AsUmptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Component A - Disaster    US$419.16 million          osupervision reports      orapid procurement
Response System and Risk                             *procurement reports
Mitigation                                           odisbursement reports
Sub-component Al: National US$110. 17 million                                   *establishment of an efficient
Emergency Management                                                            implementing organization
System
Sub-component A2: Disaster  US$273.00 million
Insurance Scheme
Sub-component A3: Land Use US$11.78 million
Planning and Enforcement of
Construction Codes
Sub-component A4: Cadastre US$24.21 million
Renovation and Land
Management
Component B - Trauma      US$6.89 million
Program for Adults
Component C - Construction  US$293.32 million
of Permanent Housing in
Bolu, Yalova and Kocaeli
Component D - Project     US$12.69 million
Management
FRAMEWORK
PROGRAM
Component E: Business     US$109.72 million
Rehabilitation
Component F: Construction  US$177.07 million
of Permanent Housing in
Bolu, Sakarya, Yalova,
Istanbul, Bursa, and Eskisehir
Component G: Repair of    US$632.12 million
existing housing stock
Component H: Rebuilding and US$139.73 million
repair of roads, water,
wastewater, electricity
distribution network
- 35 -



Annex 2: Project Description
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
By Component:
Project Component I - US$419.16 million
The primary purpose of the project is to restore living conditions in the region of Turkey that was affected
by the August 17, 1999 Marmara earthquake, support economic recovery and growth, and develop an
institutional framework for disaster risk management and mitigation. This annex describes the four
components proposed to realize the project. Further project details and implementation arrangements are
addressed in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
Component A: Disaster Response System and Risk Mitigation (US$419.16 million)
This component supports substantial legal, institutional and regulatory reforms and capacity building
measures to upgrade the Republic of Turkey's ability to respond more effectively to natural disasters, to
reduce future risk and financial liability, and to improve land use planning and building code enforcement
practices. The main sub-components are:
*   Sub-component Al: National Emergency Management System
*   Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance Scheme
*   Sub-component A3: Land Use Planning and Construction Code Enforcement
* Sub-component A4: Cadastre and Land Management
Sub-component Al: Emergency Management and Response System (US$110.17 million)
Objectives. The objective of this sub-component is to create a comprehensive emergency management
structure for Turkey that focuses on the coordination and integration of: (i) risk reduction strategies
(activities that reduce or eliminate the risk to human life and property); (ii) preparedness (pre-disaster
activities to develop and maintain capabilities to respond rapidly and effectively to emergencies, including,
planning, training, public awareness); (iii) response (activities to rapidly assess and contain the effects of
disasters, provide support to the victims, and deliver emergency services); and (iv) recovery (damage
assessment, activities to restore damaged facilities and equipment, and support the economic and social
revitalization of affected areas). This sub-component will finance the design and implementation of a
restructured emergency management and response system at the national, provincial and municipal levels.
This will be achieved through institutional strengthening activities at each level, including activities at the
municipal level for disaster prevention, mitigation, planning and public awareness.
The Earthquake and Initial Response. On August 17, 1999, a severe earthquake produced extraordinary
damage to the Marmara region of Turkey. Areas of peak damage include the cities and provinces of Izmit,
Iznik (Nicea), Gebze, Sakarya (Adapazari), and Duzce. Damages resulted from surface fault, shaking, and
subsidence and liquefaction leading to foundation and structural failures. Inadequate construction quality,
building code enforcement and land use practices dramatically exacerbated the impacts of the earthquake.
The earthquake created one of the most difficult emergency management crises faced by any nation in
recent history. The earthquake struck at 3:02am causing catastrophic damages over a heavily populated,
wide geographic area. Conmmunications systems linking the affected municipalities with outside agencies
and organizations were destroyed. Thousands of residents were trapped in devastated buildings, including
many of the officials who would be expected to provide the initial response efforts. Essential emergency
- 36 -



response resources were often destroyed or severely damaged. For example, in Adapazari, the damage was
catastrophic. The fire brigade building collapsed and every piece of equipment was either destroyed or
heavily damaged. Within the affected areas, survivors mobilized in an ad hoc way, looking for trapped
friends and neighbors and providing street-side first aid. This rapid, spontaneous mobilization in affected
communities was key in the immediate relief period.
The demands of this emergency would have initially overwhelmed virtually any emergency response system
in the world. The Turkish disaster response system, which had performed credibly in previous events like
the 1997 Adana earthquake and the 1997 floods, was unable to meet the demands created by the August 17
crisis. The scale of the crisis overwhelmed the Government's capacity to respond.
Immnediately after the earthquake, three critical elements of the national infrastructure failed. The main fiber
optic cable between Istanbul and Ankara was cut just east of Izmit where the cable crossed the fault. This
155 MHz SONET link formed the backbone of the telephone connections into the earthquake region. At the
same time, two main substations on the electric power grid were damaged and dropped off line, causing a
widespread power blackout across Turkey. Also an overpass on the motorway between Izmit and Ankara
collapsed.
Confounding the situation was the widespread demand (bordering on panic) for information from the
region. As the nation became aware of the quake, families outside the impacted region began to call the
area to learn of the fate of loved ones. This massive demand, including widespread cellular use, caused the
damaged telephone system to fail completely. When phones failed people got into their cars and drove to
the region, further clogging the roads and hampering efforts to move rescue resources into the affected area.
Response efforts began immediately. In three provinces the damages were catastrophic, virtually
incapacitating local response capabilities. The earthquake was felt in Ankara, Turkey's capital, leading to
quick actions by the key ministries. General Directorate of Civil Defense (GDCD) officials arrived at their
offices and dispatched rescue units to the affected area in trucks at 5:30am. But with jammed roads, a
destroyed bridge, and the fact that the vehicles were not equipped with radios, rescuers arrived in the
evening, were uncertain where to go, and, ultimately, had little effect. GDCD began to alert all the
provinces and request information about roads, water supply, gas electricity, damaged buildings using three
fax machines. With the degradation of the phone system, and the efforts to return messages to GDCD, this
effort took three hours. The Health Ministry mobilized 139 ambulances and 110 doctors to the region by
6:30am but they were similarly hampered by clogged roads and uncertainty where to go.
By 4:30am the General Secretary's crisis center in the office of the Prime Minister (PMCC) was initially
organized, with the crisis monitoring committee in place by 6:30am. Key ministries established crisis
centers around Ankara and regionally. However, all communications to the affected area was down by this
time. The only information came from media teams in the devastated areas. The PMCC directed Turkish
Telecom to send satellite telephones to the affected area. These were sent by road and arrived 17 hours
after the quake.
With the arrival of satellite telephones, repair of the severed fiber optic cable, restoration of electric power,
communications began to return to the affected region within 48 to 63 hours after the quake. By this time
critical rescue opportunities were lost and the response effort was in disarray.
Organizational Structure for Emergency Management in Turkey. Law No. 7269, Measures and
Assistance to Be Put Into Effect Regarding Natural Disasters Affecting the Life of the General Public, sets
forth the fundamental components of disaster management in Turkey. The law designates the Ministry of
- 37 -



Public Works and Settlement (MPWS) to be in charge of disaster response. The basic principle of the law
is to enable the Government to cope with disasters at the provincial level through what is designated as the
Provincial Committee.
Turkey is divided into 79 administrative units, or provinces, which are governed by administrators
appointed by the central Government. A provincial disaster committee is composed of senior provincial
officials from relevant ministries and departments like civil defense, health, education, and includes the
mayor (an elected official) and the Red Crescent Society. In addition there are approximately 840
sub-districts in the provinces and some 2,700 municipalities.
Disaster management in Turkey is highly centralized. Local authorities administer directives from MPWS;
governors do not have an operational role, but they are expected to coordinate and mobilize the resources of
other agencies. Mayors have little direct authority and responsibility for disaster management. Small-scale
disasters are to be handled at the district or sub-district level. If the disaster exceeds capabilities at that
level, the provincial governor becomes involved. If it is a major event, representatives of the ministries of
the central government become involved and establish crisis centers. If there is a national-scale natural
disaster (like the Marmara earthquake), a crisis center is established in the office of the Prime Minister that
includes senior representatives of at least 15 ministries, including the military.
There is no single national coordinating agency for disaster management in Turkey, though the
aforementioned law sets forth a plan of action that is entrusted to MPWS. Each ministry is has a unit
responsible for disaster management rather than there being one national coordinating agency with proper
legal mandate and authority. Rescue and relief operations are the direct responsibility of the provinces or
districts, with assistance provided by the central government; the central government is responsible for
reconstruction and rehabilitation. The Red Crescent Society, the General Directorate of Civil Defense
(GDCD in the Ministry of Interior), and the military also play a significant role in rescue and relief
operations. Locally elected governments are responsible for mitigation, including building code enforcement
and land use planning.
The MPWS is the most heavily involved in disaster management, including establishing policies, assisting
in training of government personnel in disaster management. The enabling law sets forth a basic structure,
and each ministry has a specific plan, but there is no explicit national emergency response plan that sets
forth how all the elements of the Government's response system are to be coordinated at each level.
The GDDA, which was founded in 1964, is divided into seven major departments: Earthquake Research,
Disaster Damage Assessment and Survey, Emergency Relief and Machine Support, Planning and
Indemnification of Affected Populations, Disasters Fund Administration, Temporary Housing, and
Prefabricated House Construction. The GDDA has approximately 1,200 personnel, including planners,
architects, geoscientists, architects and engineers.
The GDCD has, on paper, some 3,000 personnel, with approximately 300 assigned in Ankara. The GDCD
rescue and relief teams, which are assigned nationwide depending on population (there are approximately
750 in Istanbul), are expected to intervene at times of disaster to provide immediate assistance, though their
level of training, organizational structure, and equipment is problematic. The GDCD administers the
operations of the Civil Defense College in Ankara that trains civilian government employees in relevant
fields.
An interesting feature of Law No. 7269 is the establishment of the "Disasters Fund," which is relatively
free of the customary constraints associated with expenditures from the national budget processes. The
- 38 -



fund is intended to provide quick support for agencies involved in disaster relief. A second fund, called the
"Earthquake Fund," was established in 1971 using revenues from taxes on tobacco and alcoholic
beverages. These measures support research within GDDA; a similar fund called the Civil Defense Fund
has also been established. General pressures on the national budget have, however, significantly impacted
the allocation of these funds to the general directorates for their intended purposes.
International Models for Emergency Management. In reviewing the emergency management systems in
various nations that have a substantial earthquake risk, the following common elements have been
identified:
*   There is a strong emphasis on developing municipal and provincial capabilities
*   There is a single national agency charged with coordination of preparedness, planning, response and
recovery activities that is directly linked either to the Executive branch of the government or the
Ministry of the Interior
*   There is a national risk reduction strategy that identifies risk and mitigation priorities; this strategy is
developed through close cooperation between the technical communities in the earth sciences and
engineering and emergency management
*   The national emergency management coordinating agency has a dedicated facility for managing
disasters and an aggressive national training program
*   There is a national emergency plan that details key functions and responsibilities
*   There are common management systems for every function and level responsible for the
implementation of emergency tasks
* There is a strong emphasis on modern concepts of management of information, priority setting and
resource allocation and tracking. Effective use of these management principles facilitates the efficient
allocation of relief to areas impacted by disasters. Systems for informing rapidly and continuously
informing the public regarding at time of disaster what has occurred, what actions the government is
taking, and what actions the public should take, based on modern communications principles, reassure
the public and enforce the role and responsibility of the Government at every level
*   There is increasing use of management information systems, including geographic information systems,
to support national, local and provincial efforts, including hazard and risk identification, methods to
rapidly estimate the impacts of disasters, accumulate and aggregate field reports from affected
jurisdictions and the public into a comprehensive portrait of what has occurred
*   Each nation has an aggressive public education and hazard awareness program to inform residents
regarding the nature of risk and appropriate actions to take at the time of an emergency.
Assessment of Alternative Strategies. The MEER project team has conducted a careful analysis of the
alternatives available to achieve the objective of enhancing the capacity of the Government of Turkey to
manage the challenges of large-scale disasters occurring in densely populated regions. The relative merits
of several strategies have been considered, involving both current ministries and the potential for assigning
the responsibility to, for example, the offices of the Deputy Prime Minister.
Currently, the responsibilities for the functions that comprise emergency management as practiced
internationally in high-risk areas are divided principally between the GDDA and the GDCD, which are
housed, respectively, in the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement and the Ministry of the Interior. To
achieve the objective of comprehensive emergency management there should be a fusion of the activities of
these two agencies as well as, potentially, activities in other ministries that are integral to the functions of
comprehensive emergency management.
After careful assessment, including interviews with officials, analyses of documents, recent reports and
- 39 -



studies and consideration of recent disaster experiences, the Bank recommends that the functions of
comprehensive emergency management be assigned to a new agency, the Emergency Management Agency
of Turkey (EMAT), housed in the Ministry of the Interior.
There are several factors that informed this conclusion: there is a direct link between the central
Government and the provincial level through this ministry, promising the potential for enhanced
coordination between the levels of government; the training function of the GDCD, which must be
enhanced, can serve as the basis for an intensive training efforts; there is an operational orientation to many
of the functions contained within the ministry that could help inform aspects of the activities during a major
disaster; there is significant international precedent for housing the emergency management function within
a Ministry of the Interior.
As detailed in the subsequent sections of this document, significant challenges will be faced in
accomplishing the objective of creating EMAT. The technical capabilities and resources of GDDA - and
perhaps other ministries - need to be integrated into the new EMAT operation, including vulnerability
assessments, reliable information on the consequences of past disasters and a comprehensive information
base that outlines the potential impacts of future disasters and informs the planning, training and exercising
to meet the potential demands. Current plans, which are highly general in nature, need to be tailored to
specific risk assessments and these assessments need to inform the planning at the national, provincial and
local levels.
Within the GDCD there are also important challenges to be faced. The GDCD is, on balance, narrowly
focused on traditional preparation for armed hostilities, not natural disasters. Its facilities and equipment
are outdated, and there is an urgent need to have its personnel become familiar with and trained in
contemporary concepts of disaster management. Technical information in risk assessment and modern
management information systems need to be utilized. Risk reduction strategies need to be understood,
encouraged and monitored. Public awareness campaigns need to be conducted throughout the population.
Cooperative relationships with municipal governments, the private sector and NGOs need to be fostered
and maintained.
The activities defined in this project will enhance the GOT capacity to manage emergencies in a manner
consistent with common international practices as outlined above.
Description. The sub-component will finance the development of: (i) a strategic plan to create and establish
a comprehensive emergency management agency equipped with an operations center and communications
and data networks; (ii) a national earthquake mitigation plan; (iii) a comprehensive emergency management
training and exercise program; (iv) a search and rescue capacity building program; (v) pilot activities to
enhance the municipal emergency management system; (v) replication of the pilot activities on a regional
scale; and (vi) a public awareness campaign on appropriate measures to take before, during and after an
earthquake.
The pilot activities will be implemented in five municipalities. In addition to specific criteria to be
developed in cooperation with the GOT, the following considerations will apply in selecting the five pilot
municipalities:
*   Evidence of commitment by local officials, private sector representatives, educational institutions and
NGOs to emergency management and risk reduction, including prior projects or proposed initiatives in
areas related to emergency management and disaster resistance, and evidence of successful completion
of prior projects related to community development
-40 -



* Selected areas should be in the area of highest seismic risk, considering both the probability of
occurrence of damaging earthquakes as well as population, property and special facilities at risk
* Municipalities of varying sizes should be selected so as to enhance the lessons learned from the pilot
activities and the transferability of the initiatives to other municipalities in Turkey.
A detailed description of the activities follows.
Comprehensive Emergency Management Agency (US$78.85 million). As the initial step, the
Government of Turkey shall, under the provisions of its authority during this emergency period, (i) issue a
decree establishing the Emergency Management Agency of Turkey (EMAT), (ii) repeal Law No.
7269-1051 and the related statutes or regulations.
In cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, this sub-component will support the development of a strategic
plan that details the steps to be taken to create and implement the functioning of the Emergency
Management Agency of Turkey. This plan shall include, but not be limited to:
* An analysis of existing laws and regulations governing disaster affairs and civil defense, and any
related functions, and drafts of proposed changes to laws and regulations required to create EMAT to
be presented to the Ministry of the Interior for implementation by the GOT
* An analysis of current functions conducted by relevant Ministries that relate to the purposes and
functions of EMAT and recommendations on which functions, personnel and resources should be
transferred to EMAT, along with an implementation timetable
o Statement of the mission, goals, responsibilities, authorities and human resources requirements of
EMAT necessary to achieve the vision of an effective, comprehensive emergency management agency
devoted to mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery
In order to familiarize Turkish officials with current practices in comprehensive emergency management as
practiced in other high-risk areas of the world, the sub-component will support the organization and
conduct of a four-day emergency management symposium. This symposium will draw on international
emergency management professionals to advise representatives from the national, provincial and municipal
levels from the five selected municipalities on the features of contemporary, comprehensive emergency
management systems. Following this symposium, a manual will be produced on the "Essential Principles of
Comprehensive Emergency Management" summarizing lessons learned from the Symposium for use by
officials in implementing EMAT.
For the implementation of the agency, the sub-component will finance technical assistance to be provided to
EMAT officials in designing management, organizational, administrative, functional programs and
processes. Consultants will identify problems and propose strategies to facilitate the creation and foster the
effectiveness of a new organizational entity. A national emergency response plan will be designed to specify
the operational procedures of EMAT during emergencies, including alerting, warning, activation,
emergency declaration standards, the criteria to be used by EMAT to initiate national government
involvement in an emergency, operational systems to be used in the EMAT emergency center, emergency
public information strategies and procedures.
EMAT will be equipped with an operations center, that will provide a central location in the national
government for data and information collection, analysis and dissemination. This facility will be used to
promote prevention actions around Turkey and as well support national, provincial, and municipal response
and recovery actions. The GOT will provide the site and bring the necessary infrastructure to the site,
expected to be about 100,000 square meters, and the sub-component will finance operations and
-41 -



maintenance (O&M) costs for one year after completion of construction. For planning purposes, it is
anticipated that these costs would be about US$750,000 per year.
Communications and data networks for emergency management will be installed to support the full range
of EMAT tasks. The communications and data systems will serve to exchange information among the
levels of Government, with NGOs, commercial, and industrial groups that provide aid in the response to
disasters. The systems will also aid in the dissemination of information to the general public of Turkey. The
networks will be designed to support the whole country; however, it will be implemented only in the pilot
municipalities. It is anticipated that other sources of funding will be sought to extend the network to the
whole country. The estimated cost for the entire network for the whole country will be about US$150
million. The networks will be designed to be capable of withstanding the effects of earthquakes (or other
disasters) without losing the ability to communicate. The emergency management data network (EMDN)
will enable information to be provided to the general public of Turkey on the nature of emergency response
and management, aid in the education of the public on there role in emergencies, and facilitate the status
updates on going emergency response. The data network will use the existing Turkish Telecom network,
strengthened by microwave, dedicated fiber optic links, radio links, and satellite links. These additional
links will strengthen the network's ability to survive and respond to disasters. The emergency management
communications network (EMCN) is a radio network that will provide communications between various
operations centers and response forces in the field. It will use Very High Frequency (VHF), Ultra High
Frequency (UHF), radio transceivers. Special attention will be paid to the areas that will be included in the
pilot activities. Those municipalities and provinces will be surveyed to determine the nature of existing
computer equipment, the requirements for additional equipment, training and support needs.
EMAT will have to collect and process other data that are critical to its operation, e.g. accurate maps. For
these purposes, it will use the Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The operations and maintenance
costs will be covered by the program for one year and then by the GOT after that. It is estimated that these
costs are US$125,000 per year.
The most important information for emergency response is accurate timely seismic data. One major
problem with the response to the Marmara earthquake was the initial prediction of a much weaker event.
This report was due in part to the saturation of analogue seismometers that were set to observe lower
magnitude events and went full scale for the Marmara earthquake. The current seismograph array in
Turkey is very sparse and uses a number of older analogue instruments. The array needs to be upgraded to
digital instruments and additional strong motion sensors should be added. Operations and maintenance
costs will be covered by the program for one year and then by the GOT after that. It is estimated that these
costs are US$650,000 per year.
EMAT will also be equipped with an off-the-shelf model for rapid loss estimation. This model should be
able to use earthquake seismic data and building stock databases to predict accurate and timely earthquake
losses. Operations and maintenance costs will be covered by the program for one year and then by the GOT
after that. It is estimated that these costs are US$75,000 per year.
National Earthquake Mitigation Plan. The sub-component will support the development of a National
Earthquake Mitigation Plan, to be jointly prepared by the Government in cooperation and coordination with
the five pilot municipalities. The purpose of the national earthquake mitigation strategy is to ensure that
there is a common understanding of the earthquake risk, and that institutional responsibilities and programs
provide a coherent framework for comprehensive earthquake mitigation at the national, provincial and
municipal levels and within the private sector, that comprehensive technical information is provided in
support of earthquake mitigation activities, and that the roles of the public and private sectors are
-42 -



coordinated.
A National Earthquake Mitigation Policy Coordinating Committee will be established and staffed by the
Risk Reduction Directorate of EMAT. It will include representatives of the pilot provinces and
municipalities, the General Diractorate of Technical Research and Development, the General Directorate of
Insurance, the State Planning Organization, the General Directorate of Highways, the Turkish earth
sciences community, the Turkish structural engineering community with expertise in earthquake
engineering.
Comprehensive Emergency Management Training and Exercise Program and Search and Rescue
Capacity Building (US$23.67 million} In coordination with the Ministry of Interior, the sub-component
will develop and implement a comprehensive training and exercise program for EMAT, support ministries
involved in the National Emergency Response Plan, provincial and municipal staff from all functions
involved in emergency management, including first responders, operational, logistical, planning personnel
and relevant NGOs, volunteer organizations and the public. The implementation of the training and
exercise program will be a "train the trainers" initiative to be conducted at the national, provincial and
municipal level.
Because of the importance of search and rescue operations in the immediate aftermath of major
earthquakes, the sub-component will support a program to develop a search and rescue capacity in Turkey,
through the use of international and national consultants to design the program, conduct the initial training
of rescue teams, monitor the on-going training efforts, and the purchase of equipment to conduct search and
rescue operations. The program will include comprehensive training for three levels of search and rescue
capability: elite training and equipping for specialized teams that will conduct the most complex and
dangerous operations (8 teams to be trained and equipped); training and equipping for light and medium
rescue capabilities by the fire services (6 teams to be trained in the five pilot municipalities); community
emergency response teams to be trained and equipped (20 teams in each pilot municipality). At every level,
disbursement of the equipment to be used as part of the search and rescue programs will be contingent upon
successful completion of the required training program and certification of competency according to the
standards developed by the program.
Pilot Activities to Enhance the Municipal Emergency Management System (US$1.95 million).
Emergencies occur in specific communities, and experience has demonstrated that the most fundamental
effectiveness of any emergency management system depends upon the ability, organization, skills, and
commitment of a community - its government officials, private industry, NGOs and residents - to prepare
for emergency situations. These efforts must be community based and managed, but their efforts must be
consistent with the national and provincial systems, standards and programs. In order to enhance the
capacity of the municipal level in Turkey to prepare for, respond to, and recover from emergencies, and to
understand and more effectively manage the risks that they are exposed to, the sub-component will support
the creation of pilot activities in five selected municipalities for intensified measures designed to enhance
the capacity of the community to deal with emergencies and manage risks.
The project will support consultants, working with municipal officials to establish an emergency
management pilot program in the selected five municipalities. The oversight of the program in each
municipality shall be guided by an Advisory Board comprised of representatives of the municipal
government, the provincial government in the area, the emergency services (fire, police, medical), NGOs,
officials involved in land use decisions and the enforcement of building codes, educational institutions, the
media and volunteer organizations.
- 43 -



Specific risk profiles for each selected municipality will be developed, including geotechnical information,
general assessments of the building inventory, lifelines, schools, hospitals and related medical facilities
response resources available to provide support during emergencies, special hazards located in the
community and other information that is considered important by the Advisory Board to understand the
nature of the earthquake risk faced by the community. On the basis of this risk profile, the municipality will
develop a mitigation strategy, consistent with the priorities set forth in the National Mitigation Strategy, for
reducing the risks to the community over a five-year period, and a municipal emergency response plan,
consistent with the principles and organizational systems established in the National Response Plan, so as
to promote the ease of coordination between the national and provincial levels.
The sub-component will support the development of community awareness programs, including the
development of risk awareness information for families, schools, small businesses and media.
Towards the end of the first two years of implementation of the project, the initiatives undertaken under
these pilot activities will be evaluated to determine lessons learned and recommendations, so that the
experiences from the pilot areas can be adopted on a broader scale in high risk regions of the country.
Replication of the Pilot Activities on a Regional Scale (US$4.09 million). Based upon the
recommendations contained in the report summarizing the lessons learned from the pilot activities, the
project will support the transferability of the preparedness program from the pilot municipalities to other
ten high-risk municipalities in the country. These additional ten municipalities will be selected according to
the eligibility criteria specified for the selection of the initial five municipalities.
Public Awareness Campaign (US$1.24 million). The awareness of the public regarding appropriate
measures to take before, during and after an earthquake is an essential element of a comprehensive
emergency management program. Evidence from other earthquake-prone regions suggests that a
well-prepared citizenry can make a significant difference in moderating the impacts from earthquakes. Such
campaigns should include information on understanding the nature of the earthquake risk, personal
preparedness and protective measures, for family and individual preparedness, materials for children and
special populations, and actions to take immediately following an earthquake. The sub-component will
develop a national public awareness strategy, program and materials regarding the earthquake risk. The
program should make information available through a variety of media (print, television, radio, internet)
and targeted for specific populations (e.g. school children, worksites, community groups). The strategy to
be prepared should be developed following an evaluation of the efforts in other earthquake risk areas of the
world. The campaign will first be undertaken in the pilot municipalities and, following an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the initial campaigns, any recommended changes made prior to dissemination on a
nationwide basis.
Project Monitoring (US$0.37 million). The sub-component will support consultants to provide an
independent review of project implementation and, in cooperation with PIU, its local offices and the
General Director of EMAT, provide quarterly reports and recommendations for needed corrective actions
to implement the vision of establishing a comprehensive emergency management agency in Turkey.
Expected Output. The expected output is the creation of a comprehensive emergency management agency
equipped with an operations center and communications and data networks, and with trained staff in
emergency management, the development of a national earthquake mitigation plan,
strenghthened search and rescue capacity, the replication on a regional scale of lessons learned from the
pilot activities on municipal emergency system, and increased awareness among citizens of the measures to
be taken before, during and after an earthquake.
- 44 -



Costs. The costs of this sub-component are listed in table 1.
Table 1: Costs of the Emergency Management and Response System
Bank         Government  TOTAL
Financing    Financing     (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million)
Comprehensive Emergency Management       68.03         10.82         78.85
Agency and National Earthquake Mitigation
Plan
Comprehensive Emergency Management       20.37         3.30          23.67
Training and Exercise Program
Pilot Activities to Enhance the Municipal  1.67        0.28          1.95
Emergency Management System
Replication of the Pilot Activities on a Regional 3.52  0.57         4.09
Scale
Public Awareness Campaign                1.05          0.19          1.24
Project Monitoring                       0.37          0.00          0.37
TOTAL                                    95.01         15.16         110.17
Financing. The costs of the described activities will be 100% Bank financed except for taxes. In the case of
the communications and data networks and the other data collection facilities used for equipping EMAT, it
is expected that the GOT will finance the operations and maintenance costs for the last two years of
implementation of the project.
Implementation. The Ministry of Interior will be the leading implementing agency. The PIU will be
responsible for procuring the technical assistance, works and equipment for implementing the activities
under this sub-component. The consultants hired for monitoring and evaluating progress implementation
will coordinate with the PIU and its local offices.
Flow of Funds. The PIU will authorize disbursements of funds against submissions of invoices.
Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance Scheme (US$273 million)
Executive Summary
The Risk. Turkey is exposed to severe seismic risk with the annual expected property loss estimated at
around US$800 million. In the recent Marmara Earthquake, the death toll reached over 17,000, with
physical damages being estimated between US$4-7 billion or around 3% of GNP. Istanbul is the worst
risk area, with an intensity VIII event expected to cost over US$25bn. Only 15% of insurable domestic
residences in the Istanbul metropolitan area are insured, and outside Istanbul, a much lower proportion.
The current Disaster Law guarantees the replacement of damaged residences at a nominal cost thus
providing no effective incentives for risk management at the individual level and inhibiting the
development of a national risk management strategy. This means that the level of risk is increasing
dramatically, largely due to uncontrolled building in the Istanbul conurbation with concomitant
- 45 -



increases in GOT contingent fiscal liabilities.
Existing Risk Transfer Capacity. The local insurance market is very fragmented, highly competitive
and has a low capital base, partly reflecting high inflation protected returns available from lower risk
activities. The prospects of the local industry expanding its coverage, if earthquake insurance were
made compulsory, are limited due to its low financial capacity and the reluctance of leading
international reinsurers to provide more capacity to the industry in its present state.
The Government Earthquake Insurance Progranm The Government has proposed an Earthquake
Insurance Program to transfer risk and limit its financial exposure to future natural disasters, as had
been done in other countries such as California and New Zealand (amongst others). The key objectives
as defined by the General Directorate of Insurance (GDI) as follows:
*   Ensuring that all real estate tax paying domestic dwellings have earthquake insurance coverage
* Reducing government fiscal exposure to recurrent earthquakes
* Transferring catastrophic risk to the international capital markets (including reinsurance)
*   Encouraging risk mitigation and safer construction practices through the insurance mechanism
Under the Program, compulsory earthquake cover will be introduced for all real estate tax paying
dwellings. The cover will be provided by the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP, or Pool),
which would offer coverage up to US$25,000 for each dwelling and US$3,000 for contents. For equity,
claims settlements payments will be subject to "average". Coverage in excess of TCIP coverage could
be obtained on a voluntary basis from private insurance providers.
Approved domestic insurance companies will act as distributors of TCIP policies, and private loss
adjusters will be used in claim settlement. TCIP will be the sole-source provider of catastrophic
insurance and will be set up by a Government Decree with its own Board of Directors and management.
Enforcement will be the responsibility of local tax authorities. As reserves build up, they will be held in
segregated trust or escrow accounts, and 50% will be held abroad. TCIP will initially charge a flat
premium of US$50/dwelling, but in 2 years will move to premiums based upon its earthquake loss and
pricing models.
The successful national reinsurance company, Mille Re has been appointed by GOT as TCIP
Management Company. Milli Re's Board will be responsible for governance and major policy issues
including investment management, premium structures and risk transfer (mainly a reinsurance
decision). Milli Re will manage all TCIP insurance operations under procedures laid down in the
Operational Guidelines (which are subject to prior approval by the World Bank) and policies of the
TCIP Board. Outsourcing of major business functions to the private sector will be widely used.
Proposed Insurance Component in the MEER. While the Bank has made several emergency and
rehabilitation loans to Turkey, this type of lending has severe limitations. Given Turkey's severe
exposure to earthquakes, excessive government reliance on Bank retroactive lending and emergency
donor relief can no longer be sustained. Efficient management of catastrophic risk can only be achieved
through risk transfer to third parties outside the country, building up national reserves, and providing
the incentives for reducing the level of earthquake vulnerability through risk-based pricing and TCIP
supported risk management efforts.
The political momentum created by the Marmara disaster and sustained by concern for the plight of
people still exposed in tents, together with the brief legislative chance for fast-track legislation until the
- 46 -



end of this year, provides an opportunity to create the institution and amend the Disaster Law, which is
not likely to occur again until the next major earthquake. In this context, Bank support is essential for
TCIP to be created. TCIP earthquake cover up to US$25,000 limit will allow and encourage private
insurers to write earthquake policies in excess of TCIP coverage and there is general support for the
concept from the local insurance sector.
The insurance component of the MEER Project will finance two major activities: (i) Technical
assistance to the GDI in establishing TCIP with operational efficiency and financial soundness; and (ii)
Initial capitalization of TCIP through a contingent loan facility.
A US$23 million technical assistance in insurance matters will result in quantifying risk, exposures and
vulnerabilities, developing optimal financing structures and providing legal support to draft Operational
Guidelines, and designing insurance Policies and IT systems, which will be installed for monitoring
exposure and for handling premium and claims transactions. Modeling of earthquake losses and pricing
will be undertaken, augmented by structural engineering research. The project will develop systems that
are sufficiently robust to ensure that all premiums taken in on its behalf by insurance companies are
promptly dispatched in full to TCIP, and both the premium collection and claims settlement systems
will be subject to audit and spot checks. Training will be provided for TCIP and insurance company
staff.
Reinsurance and/or capital markets risk transfer products will be purchased so as to transfer as much
of the risk as is economical away from TCIP, using a reinsurance intermediary which will be chosen
through an ICB procedure. When premiums build up within TCIP, they will be invested. At least 50%
of these investments will be made in foreign assets, with the invested funds held in segregated trust or
an escrow accounts. Assets will be managed by a professional asset management firm, selected through
ICB. Considerable public education will be required and funding will be provided under both the
TEFER and the current project.
TCIP will also contribute to the enforcement of building codes through a commercial arrangement with
independent engineering firms that would be retained to certify the construction quality of new
residential dwellings to be insured under the Program.
Uncommitted Contingent Loan Facility. A US$ 100 million sub-component provides contingent
funding for repair and reconstruction through claims payments in case of an earthquake. It will be
provided in the form of an uncommitted contingent loan facility. The balance of the risk capital
requirements will be funded through reinsurance and the build-up over time of catastrophic insurance
reserves from premiums net of expenses and risk transfer costs. The disbursement of the proposed
Bank facility would be contingent upon: (i) progress in regulatory reform; (ii) satisfactory progress in
the technical work on the launch of TCIP; (iii) the purchase of reinsurance that would ensure no gaps in
the capital structure; and (iv) presented evidence of insurance claims.
The results of the preliminary estimates of the initial capitalization requirement for TCIP, show that if
no major event takes place, the risk of its insolvency would diminish to single-digit probabilities over
the next 10 years. While the scheme will be mandatory, it will take time to achieve deep market
penetration. Current projections point to a 30% penetration after a year and up to 60% after 5 years of
TCIP operation.
Major Risks and Benefits of Component. The component faces four main risks. The first is that a
major earthquake with impact in excess of the Marmara event occurs in early years of TCIP's
existence. The second relates to the enforcement of the compulsory insurance for private dwellings and
-47 -



the collection and transmittal of premiums to TCIP. The third relates to the cost and availability of
reinsurance and capital market support during the early build up phase. Finally, there is a danger of the
Government being unable to resist political pressures to turn TCIP into an indiscriminate liquidity
conduit to victims of a major earthquake.
The launch of TCIP would represent a major breakthrough in reducing the adverse financial and
economic exposure of Turkey to catastrophic events, and would also increase the extent to which
homeowners manage the risk to their own properties through a purchase of insurance from the private
insurance sector (in excess of that provided by TCIP.)
Bank Financing. The total World Bank financing under the component is estimated at US$123
million, including a contingent loan facility amounting to US$100.0 million to finance insurance claims,
premiums for reinsurance and excess of loss contracts and re-insurance intermediary services for the
total of US$20.8, technical assistance in the establishment of TCIP, and incremental operating costs of
US$2.2 million. The overall annual operating expenses of TCIP for the first year are estimated at
around US$10 million net of reinsurance cost and will have to be exclusively financed by the Turkish
Government. In addition, the Government would make a US$0.1 million in-kind contribution toward the
operating costs of the TMU, and pay any taxes/duties on locally procured goods or services.
The Bank will finance 100% of eligible claims, up to US$17 million, to the extent that accumulated
premiums are insufficient to fund them, up to the attachment point of reinsurance of any kind. After
that the Bank financing of the retention will be reduced to 40%, with the remaining 60% to be either
financed by GOT or from other sources, mainly through premium income generated by TCIP. If the
losses during the initial years are greater than the funds built up in the pool, together with any
reinsurance or excess of loss reinsurance cover, the Bank will finance 100% of claims, which cannot be
met either by TCIP itself or its reinsurers.
The Implementation Agency for the Project will be TCIP; implementation will be commenced by TCIP
Management Unit set up within the GDI; and Milli Re will carry out operational management of the
Pool. The Government has also designated the TEFER PCU to provide all required procurement
services.
Applications for withdrawal under TCIP component will need to be accompanied by certification that
conditions have been met. At the end of five years, if the loan has not been completely drawn down, the
balance may be drawn to develop TCIP capacity to insure against disasters of larger scale than the
Marmara earthquake.
Country's Economic Exposure to Earthquakes. Much of Turkey is exposed to severe seismic risk
with the annual expected property loss estimated at around US$800 million. In the century up to 1995,
sixty-six earthquakes of intensity VIII or greater were recorded. Approximately 80,000 deaths resulted
(including 30,000 in Erzincan in 1939). Since 1995, the main seismic shocks have been the
Adana-Ceyhan earthquake in 1998, which is one of the events that led to the 1998 World Bank Turkey
Emergency Flood and Earthquake Recovery Project (TEFER), and a recent even more devastating
Marmara earthquake, which struck on August 17, 1999. The death toll from the Marmara earthquake
alone is estimated at over 15,829 with over 43,953 wounded, while physical damages may be up to
US$10 billion or around 3% of GNP. The two previous shocks (Dinar in 1995 and Erzincan in 1992)
are estimated to have had direct fiscal costs to the Government of Turkey amounting to approximately
US$1 billion. All three of these were intensity VII earthquakes or higher.
- 48 -



Recent modeling work indicates potential direct economic costs of over US$25 billion for the Istanbul
area in the event of an intensity VIII event. While the return period for earthquakes for the Istanbul area
is estimated at 1,000 years for intensity VII to VIII earthquakes, and 100 years for earthquakes of
intensity V, recent work indicates that the probability of these events increases with duration since the
last event. It is worth mentioning that it has been over 100 years since the last earthquake of intensity V
occurred in Istanbul, with the dormant fault line being just miles away from the city in the Marmara
Sea.
To compound the situation, the Turkish economy is known for its high geographical concentration, with
the Istanbul metropolitan area accounting for over 50 percent of the national GDP. While there is some
diversification of commerce and industry towards the Eastern regions, Istanbul's earthquake exposure
will remain easily the peak risk in Turkey for the foreseeable future. Major infrastructure projects
currently underway in these zones (earthquake zones 1, 2 and 3) include the Izmit Water Supply Project
(US$635 million) and the Izmit Bay Bridge (US$1 billion). Over the last decade, the population of the
city has increased from 7.3 million in 1990 to over I I million, with many of the new arrivals occupying
uncertified and uninsurable properties, sometimes built (often at night to avoid detection) in valleys and
on unstable land. Most of these structures are likely to collapse under the first impact.
Current State of Property Catastrophic Insurance. Despite a great seismic and flood exposure, less
than 15% of insurable domestic residences in the Istanbul metropolitan area are insured, with a higher
percentage applying to commercial property. Outside Istanbul, the insured base is much lower, with
estimates as low as 2% of domestic dwellings being quoted. Among the main reasons for the low
penetration are: (1) strong disincentives to insure against catastrophic risks embedded in the provisions
of the current Disaster Law, which guarantees the replacement of damaged residences at a nominal
cost; (2) lack of knowledge of the benefits of insurance, compounded by cultural factors; and (3) poor
claims performance of some insurers and the heavy retention (in the form of coinsurance and
deductible) required of the policyholder for the earthquake risk (up to 20% of loss, plus 5% of sum
insured).
While currently there are 41 companies underwriting property and engineering coverages (including
earthquake), the market is very fragmented, with the top 6 companies writing just over 50% of earthquake
policies. The market is highly competitive. The industry is characterized by (1) low capital base
(insufficient reserves) for writing fire and earthquake coverage; (2) lack of detailed hazard maps at the
local level and sophisticated risk assessment methods, which causes high uncertainty with regard to the
probability of a specific loss and its magnitude; (3) insufficient technical expertise and shortage of
qualified personnel; and (4) low retentions of earthquake risk, with up to 90% of the risk being ceded to
reinsurers. Up to 32% of the quota share of premiums passed on to reinsurers is rebated back to the
insurers in the form of the exchange (business) commissions. In the absence of this reinsurance based'
washing' of earthquake premiums, two thirds of all such premium income would have to be set aside in
catastrophe reserves under the current law, and together with associated investment income held for 15
years before being released to accounting profit.
Underwriting standards have been deteriorating as companies fight for premium income. The results of
this fierce competition are particularly obvious in the case of fire premiums, which are priced only
nominally, due to the bundling of earthquake and fire covers together in one policy. As a result, the fire
premiums are being subsidized from the proceeds of the exchange commissions for a regulated earthquake
cover rather than being used to accumulate reserves against the eventuality of an earthquake. The low
capital base forces most domestic insurers to cede up to 90% of risk to re-insurers. As it is, total
accumulated industry earthquake reserves for residential properties of 12/31/98 amounted only to
-49 -



approximately US$6 million (current conversion) against an annual earthquake premium income from
homeowners of US$23 million. These low risk retentions effectively make local insurance companies act
as distributors and claim settlers rather than risk carriers. The small capital base of the industry can also
be illustrated by the size of its consolidated balance sheet, which is similar to that of a middle-size bank.
As the world reinsurance markets have passed through a cyclical low, intense competition for Turkish
business has led to low prices for excess cover, and high commissions for quota share, a proportional
reinsurance treaty which is generally arranged for the first layer of risk. In such a reinsurance treaty the
insurers' obligation is proportional to the percentage retained and the remainder being paid for by the
reinsurer. The Marmara event in itself does not seem to have made a large impact, but the attitude of
international reinsurers is clearly hardening because of the perception of inadequate returns and poor
underwriting standards by primary insurers. This is leading to pressure for reduced commissions and the
reduction of cession limits. Unless companies are able to significantly improve their underwriting
standards and price fire risk appropriately, they will come under increasing pressure.
The prospects of the local industry expanding its coverage, if earthquake insurance were made
compulsory, are limited due to its low capital base and the reluctance of leading international reinsurers to
provide more capacity to the industry in its present state. Well-founded concerns over Turkish building
standards are an aggravating factor. A solution to the current lack of earthquake coverage through a rapid
expansion of the private sector does not appear feasible, at least in the immediate future, due to the
reasons described.
The Government Earthquake Insurance Program. In these circumstances, the Government has
proposed an Earthquake Insurance Program. The Government proposal aims at establishing catastrophic
risk transfer and risk financing mechanisms and institutions that can limit its financial exposure to natural
disasters in the future. The Program draws on international experience of successful government efforts in
raising the financial preparedness for major catastrophic events. As shown by the successful experience
of state-sponsored (and in some cases state-administered) catastrophe insurance pools in Norway, France,
Spain, New Zealand, California and Florida, catastrophe risks can only be funded through a certain
degree of compulsion. A similar mechanism is proposed in Turkey, if sufficient earthquake reserves are to
be accumulated on an affordable basis, while still reflecting risk levels (see Insurance Technical Paper X
in PIP for detailed commentary on the program).
The New Zealand and California Earthquake Authorities are the prime examples. Responding to a market
failure to provide adequate insurance coverage for residential properties in earthquake-prone areas, these
institutions found ways to establish affordable, and yet actuarially sound, pricing of such insurance
products. Both institutions have transferred away large portions of risk using reinsurance of different
kinds, arranged for stand-by liquidity facilities, and both have considered the use of capital market
instruments.
The key objectives for the proposed Program have been defined by the General Directorate of Insurance
(GDI) as follows:
*   Ensure that all real estate tax paying domestic dwellings have earthquake insurance coverage
*   Reduce government fiscal exposure to recurrent earthquakes
*   Transfer catastrophic risk to the international capital markets (including reinsurance)
*   Encourage risk mitigation and safer construction practices an insurance mechanism
Under the Program, compulsory earthquake cover will be introduced for all real estate tax paying
dwellings. The cover will be provided by the Turkish Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP, or Pool), which
would offer coverage up to US$25,000 for each dwelling and US$3,000 for contents. To ensure that
- 50 -



owners of expensive properties pay a fair premium and to enable the private insurance sector to expand,
claims' payments will be subject to "average" (see Insurance Technical Paper VI in PIP). "Average" is a
method through which claims are scaled down in such a proportion so as to avoid insureds moral hazard.
The payouts to policy holders are calculated according to the following formula:
Claims Paid = (Maximum Sum Insured/Property Value at time of disaster) * Losses
The result of this process ensures that owners of underinsured property have an incentive to purchase
voluntarily a top-up cover from the private sector. Coverage in excess of TCIP coverage could be obtained
on a voluntary basis from private insurance providers.
Approved domestic insurance companies will act as distributors of TCIP policies, and will be paid an
appropriate fee. Claim settlement will be the responsibility of TCIP and will be based on assessments by
independent private loss adjusters appointed by the TCIP to act on its behalf.
TCIP will be the sole-source provider of catastrophic insurance. The Pool will be set up by a Government
Decree by December 1999 as a separate, state-owned and controlled legal entity, with its own Board of
Directors and management. The Board will have representatives from the government, the private sector,
and the academic community.
Enforcement will be the responsibility of local tax authorities. As reserves build up, they will be held in a
segregated trust or escrow account and managed in accordance with international best practice.
TCIP will establish its premiums based upon its earthquake loss and pricing models, and will provide its
retail distributors of its policies with a premium schedule agreed in advance. TCIP's pricing models would
account, inter alia, for seismicity, local soil conditions, and construction type and quality.
The national reinsurance company, Mille Re, has been appointed by GOT as TCIP Management Company,
subject to approval by Milli Re's Board. The company was formed in 1929 based on compulsory cession
by Turkish insurers. It has a successful track record as the manager of several pools, including FAIR
(Federation of Afro-Asian Insurers and Re-insurers) and ECO (Economic Cooperation Organization
Reinsurance Pool). While Milli Re is 98% privately-owned, three out of six Directors on its Board are
appointed by the Treasury. Milli Re occupies the central position in the Turkish insurance industry and has
strong management and good technical expertise (see Insurance Technical Paper VII in PIP).
As the Pool Manager, Milli Re will: (i) implement the policies laid down by TCIP Board and as set out in
its management contract; (ii) supervise the distribution of policies through insurance companies approved
by TCIP; (iii) manage claims' payment; (iv) arrange for risk transfer to the global re-insurance and capital
markets; and (v) manage the Pool's operations so as to ensure its financial viability (see Insurance
Technical Paper V in PIP). Management of certain operational matters, such as policy processing,
reinsurance, investments, etc. is likely to be outsourced.
World Bank Lending for Disaster Relief in Turkey and the Proposed Operation. Over the years, the
Bank has made several emergency and rehabilitation loans to Turkey. The latest loan, the Emergency Flood
and Earthquake Recovery Project (US$369 million), was granted at the end of 1998. Despite the on-going
and quite effective Bank emergency projects in the aftermath of natural disasters in Turkey, this type of
lending has limitations. Firstly, due to the country exposure limits, the Bank cannot provide all the liquidity
needed in cases of larger catastrophic events, which frequently leave the Government short of billions of
dollars of urgently needed financial resources. Secondly, due to their generally large size, emergency loans
- 51 -



tend to crowd out other important development lending programs, which have to be either postponed or
substantially reduced. Finally, excessive government reliance on Bank retroactive lending and emergency
donor relief can no longer be considered sustainable in light of the frequent major catastrophic events
caused by Turkey's inherent seismicity.
In Turkey, the culture of risk management is almost non-existent the among property owners. Less than
10% of dwellings are insured in major cities despite their proximity to earthquake fault lines. Most
dwellings which are currently insured have a value in the range of US$60,000-200,000. As a result, the
risk of damage to less expensive dwellings, which account for most of the housing stock in Turkey, is
primarily borne by the homeowners and the Government due to the current provisions of the Disaster Law.
A more efficient management of this catastrophic risk can be achieved through risk transfer to third parties
outside the country and by building up national reserves.
Due to a low level of reserves in the local insurance industry, it would take a long time to build up the
private insurers' capital necessary to support a rapid increase in the retention of risk if earthquake
insurance cover is made mandatory. In addition, a pure private sector approach is unlikely to succeed as
some insurers will attempt to underwrite only those risks that are overpriced, leading to instability and
possible bankruptcy for those, who may choose to underwrite the wrong part of the portfolio.
Under these circumstances, a joint public/private sector solution is necessary to reduce the risk borne by the
Government and property owners. Given the above-mentioned considerations and the political momentum
created by the Marmara disaster, as well as public and industry recognition of the need for action, Bank
support of the Government Program is crucial.
Bank assistance for the creation of TCIP, which will represent the interests of the Government, private
sector, and policy holders, will greatly contribute to a rapid and efficient implementation of the compulsory
earthquake insurance program in Turkey that otherwise would have been severely constrained by the low
level of reserves and insufficient earthquake underwriting capacity in the private insurance industry. In
addition, the implementation of the proposed insurance component will ensure that less advantaged groups
of the Turkish population have access to a reliable catastrophe insurance mechanism.
In addition, TCIP earthquake program, designed for the riskier lower end of the market (up to US$25,000
limit), will allow private insurers to free up a corresponding amount of risk capital. The availability of this
additional capacity could be applied to write earthquake policies in excess of TCIP coverage, which would
facilitate further penetration of the local property insurance market. The creation of TCIP will also bring
about added benefits to the local insurance industry such as (i) establishment of best practices in
underwriting property risks, and (ii) a better enforcement of building codes.
Objectives. The principal development objective of the sub-component is to support the Government
Earthquake Insurance Program with the view of establishing and expanding national catastrophic risk
management and risk transfer capabilities. To meet these objective, the sub-component will create an
insurance mechanism, which will make liquidity readily available to real estate tax paying owners of
residential dwellings destroyed or damaged by an earthquake for the purpose of their repair or replacement,
reduce government fiscal exposure and the risk to the national economy due to major earthquakes, ensure
the financial solvency of the Pool after all but the most catastrophic of events, such as those in excess of
the Marmara earthquake, reduce government financial dependence on the Bank and other donors' financial
assistance in the aftermath of major earthquakes.
Key regulatory and institutional reforms are also the focus of the sub-component. The sub-component will:
- 52 -



(i) facilitate a major reform of the Turkish Disaster Law and related legislation that will reduce government
financial exposure and increase its financial preparedness as well as that of households for major
earthquakes; (ii) support the development and implementation of a national risk management and risk
transfer strategy by providing technical assistance for the start-up of TCIP; (iii) improve the enforcement
of the Building Code through insurance mechanisms; and (iv) facilitate the development of local earthquake
underwriting capacity, and foster the development of related lines of business, such as professional and
liability insurance.
Description. The sub-component will finance two major activities: (i) technical assistance to the GDI in
establishing TCIP and ensuring its operational efficiency and financial soundness for the first 5 years of its
existence; and (ii) initial capital support of TCIP through a contingent loan facility.
Technical Assistance to GDI in the Establishment of TCIP (US$23.00 million). TCIP will be formed as
a new independent public sector institution by Government decree. The Board of Directors will be
appointed with public and private sector representatives (see Insurance Technical Paper II in PIP). The
Board will appoint the TCIP's Chief Executive.
The sub-component will support the establishment of TCIP through technical assistance in insurance
matters, both technical and legal. Part of this technical assistance work will also be funded under the
TEFER loan. Under this sub-component, technical assistance will be provided to the TCIP Management
Unit (TMU) and to Milli Re to set-up TCIP's business and information systems, draft operational
guidelines and a business plan. Information technology systems will be installed, both for monitoring
exposure and for handling premium transactions with insurance companies and claims transactions with
loss adjusters. Every effort will be made to obtain systems already used by the insurance industry in
Turkey or elsewhere, so as to avoid the costs and risks of development of new systems. Development of the
following technical activities by TCIP will be financed (see Insurance Technical Paper IX in PIP for
Procurement Arrangements):
v Technical Assistance in Modeling and Pricing. Modeling of earthquake losses and pricing will be
undertaken. This will be augmented by structural engineering research, both to assist in estimating
damage ratios, and also to verify or suggest modifications to the current earthquake-rating tariff. Part
of the modeling work is also supported under the TEFER project and implementation should start
shortly.
* Insurance Policy Design. Technical assistance will be provided to TCIP in finalizing its insurance
policy product. This work will be based on Government proposals, current Turkish policy conditions,
and, where appropriate, available international experience. The terms and conditions of the policy will
be refined in light of the results of such technical work.
* Technical Assistance in Developing TCIP Distribution Systems. The distribution of TCIP earthquake
policies will be undertaken by participating, approved domestic insurance companies. The settlement of
claims will be carried out by TCIP, supported by Milli Re, using duly qualified, independent, private
loss adjusters that are normally used by the industry. Major work will be carried out under the
sub-component to develop systems that are sufficiently robust to ensure that all premiums taken in on
its behalf by insurance companies are promptly dispatched in full to TCIP. Both the premium
collection and claims settlement systems will be subject to audit and spot checks so as to discourage
defalcation or delay in payment. This work will build on the results of technical assistance in systems
design and in staff training provided under the TEFER project.
- 53 -



*   Training. Training in using risk pricing software will be provided for TCIP staff and for insurance
company staff and agents. Twinning with the California Earthquake Authority (CEA) and the New
Zealand Earthquake Commission (EQC) will be sought so as to provide for experience and skills
transfer to TCIP staff, which will be also funded under the TEFER project.
*   Reinsurance and Reinsurance Intermediary Services. Reinsurance and/or capital markets risk transfer
products will be purchased so as to transfer as much of the risk as is economical away from TCIP. A
reinsurance intermediary will be chosen through an ICB procedure to design a risk financing program
based on modeling to achieve the objectives of TCIP. It will negotiate with re-insurers and/or the
capital markets, evaluate the quotations and products offered, and report on their cost effectiveness in
terms of the cost of reducing risk. Throughout the process, TCIP will interact with Milli Re and the
reinsurance intermediary, and at the end will decide which products to purchase. The reinsurance
intermediary will then place the program in the market. The fee of the insurance intermediary during
the set-up year will be funded under the sub-component.
*   Investment Policy and Fund Management. As and when premiums build up within TCIP, they will be
invested. The invested funds will be held in a segregated trust or an escrow account for the benefit of
TCIP beneficiaries, so as to ensure that they are protected from any possible creditor action or other
use. Investments will be subject to constraints and allocation criteria determined in the TCIP
Operations Manual. The investment allocation criteria will take account of the underlying purpose of
reducing the financial risk to TCIP and ultimately to its policy holders. For that reason, it is envisaged
that at least 50 percent of funds will be invested in internationally liquid investment grade assets, such
as foreign government bonds-linked notes to avoid a major loss in assets value due to an internal
catastrophic event in Turkey.
*   An investment adviser (a firm of world standing) will be selected through ICB to ensure that the best
return is obtained from the investment portfolio, subject to risk and liquidity objectives of TCIP. The
investment adviser will (i) advise on investment strategy; (ii) advise on investment mandate and
constraints; (iii) advise on asset allocation; (iv) assist in competitive selection of asset managers by
reference to its own database of performance; and (v) monitor the performance of the chosen asset
managers against the performance of their peers. The fee of the investment manager will be funded
under the sub-component.
*   The assets will be managed by a professional asset management firm. A custodian will also be
appointed in accordance with best commercial practice so as to safeguard the assets, and this custodian
may be either a firm regularly used by the asset manager (if that firm is independent and reputable), or
else a separate custodial firm.
*   Public Education. Since the sub-component involves a major change in catastrophe insurance,
considerable public education will be required and will be carried out by TCIP or its agent under the
project. Funding for these activities will be provided under both the TEFER and the current project.
*   Improving Enforcement of Building Codes. In addition to its core earthquake insurance functions, it is
expected that TCIP would also contribute to the enforcement of building codes through a commercial
arrangement with independent engineering firms that would be retained to certify the construction
quality of new residential dwellings to be insured under the Program. This work will be jointly funded
under the TEFER and the current project.
- 54 -



Initial Capital Support of TCIP through an Uncommitted Contingent Loan Facility (US$250 million).
The sub-component will enable the launch of TCIP, which will act as a stand-alone provider of
catastrophic insurance in Turkey. This objective will be achieved by providing US$ 100 million of Bank
financing in the form of an uncommitted contingent loan facility for the initial capital support of this
institution. Although the estimated initial risk capital requirements are much higher, it is envisaged that
they will be funded through reinsurance and the build-up of catastrophic insurance premiums, which will
happen over time. The disbursement of the proposed Bank facility will be contingent upon: (i) progress
made by the Government in enacting a package of regulatory reforms (Insurance Technical Paper I in PIP);
(ii) satisfactory progress achieved in the technical work on the launch of TCIP funded under the TEFER;
(iii) the purchase of reinsurance from major international re-insurance providers; and (iv) presented
evidence of insurance claims.
TCIP's Initial Capital Support Requirements. To estimate the initial capitalization requirement for TCIP,
a cumulative loss curve for Turkey has been developed based on 106 years of earthquake experience and
allowing for the fact that only real estate tax paying dwellings will be covered by TCIP (see Insurance
Technical Paper II in PIP). In addition, certain assumptions have been made about premium structures,
objectives of the Pool and the state of the reinsurance market. The results of this preliminary model (which
will be upgraded by the stldy to be carried out under the TEFER loan) are shown in Insurance Technical
Paper II (see PIP), which contains estimates of TCIP exposure in excess of premium build up requiring
external support. According to these estimates, the probability of TCIP insolvency, with no reinsurance or
other support and assuming full penetration of eligible households, is around 30% in the first year with an
initial capital of US$250 million. However, if the initial capitalization is increased to US$1 billion, the
probability of TCIP insolvency reduces to around 10%. While creating a sufficient safety margin for TCIP
is an important precondition for ensuring the credibility of the proposed reform of earthquake insurance in
Turkey, the financial considerations put certain limitations on the initially feasible Government contribution
towards TCIP's capitalization. Even so, the 30% risk of TCIP's insolvency in the first year, given recent
reinsurance market conditions, can be brought down to an acceptable level by placing reinsurance contracts
with international re-insurers. A preliminary analysis suggests one feasible structure, which would cover
losses in excess of US$100 million up to US$600 million. Under this preliminary model, the retained risk
for TCIP would be around US$10-17 million in the first year of its operations, plus any accumulated
unfunded set up costs, less accumulated net premiums, plus any claims in excess of the upper limit of the
excess of loss cover (US$400 to US$600 million). The World Bank facility will be available to protect
both the lower gap, which would close over time and the excess at the top in case of a very severe event in
the top 20% probability range. Chart I in Insurance Technical Paper II illustrates this preliminary financing
structure. The reinsurance to be finally placed would be designed on the basis of Dynamic Financial
Analysis modeling so as to maximize the risk reduction, subject to budget constraints.
Over time, with the growth of TCIP's reserves, assuming mandatory catastrophic insurance coverage is
introduced and no major event takes place, the risk of its insolvency would diminish to single-digit
probabilities over the next 10 years.
Although with the accumulation of TCIP reserves, its ability to retain more catastrophic risk may increase,
at the initial stage, TCIP risk management policy would be focused on transferring most of the catastrophic
risk to third parties outside the country. To this effect, TCIP would enter into contracts with major
reinsurers, and/or issue catastrophic bonds, to prevent an abrupt shortage of liquidity in case of major
catastrophic events, and, where appropriate, arrange for stand-by emergency liquidity facilities with
international lenders.
While TCIP premium pricing would be based on sound actuarial principles, it may provide subsidized
- 55 -



insurance coverage to low-income groups upon Government request. However, it is envisaged that TCIP
would by law be entitled to an immediate reimbursement by the Government for the full amount of subsidy
dispensed to these policyholders. TCIP would be entitled to discontinue the coverage of subsidized
policyholders if the amount of compensation from the Government falls short of the subsidy costs incurred
by the institution.
While the scheme will be mandatory, it will take time to achieve deep market penetration. Current
projections point to a 30% penetration after a year and up to 60% after 5 years of TCIP operation.
Major Risks and Benefits of the Sub-component. The sub-component faces three main risks. The first is
that a major earthquake with impact in excess of the Marmara event occurs in the early years of TCIP's
existence. While this risk can be mitigated by placing reinsurance contracts with third parties, transferring
some of the risk to capital markets and by prorating the claims, the base risk still remains. The second
major risk relates to the enforcement of the compulsory insurance requirement for private dwellings and the
collection and timely transmittal of premiums to TCIP. If TCIP fails to reach the level of market
penetration agreed upon with the Bank or falls short of enforcing the timely collection and remittance of
premiums, it would be unable to provide the agreed upon matching contribution to the Bank funds in case
of a major earthquake. This risk can be addressed by intensive technical assistance to TCIP in the first
years of its operations and close monitoring by the Bank of its market penetration and premium collection
efforts. Finally, there is a danger of the Government being unable to resist political pressures to turn TCIP
into an indiscriminate liquidity conduit to victims of a major earthquake in the future, regardless of the
terms of their coverage under the program. Although this risk cannot be completely mitigated, the proposed
financial design of the project, in addition to the legal covenants in the loan agreement, provides strong
financial disincentives for that type of policy action.
If successful, however, the launch of TCIP would represent a major breakthrough in reducing the adverse
financial and economic exposure of Turkey to catastrophic events. This development would have a large
positive impact on the rate of the country's economic growth, and its ability to address the financial
consequences of catastrophic events on its own without resorting to massive emergency aid from
international financial institutions and donor countries. It would also increase the extent to which
homeowners manage the risk to their own properties through a purchase of insurance provided both by
TCIP and the private insurance sector in excess of that offered through TCIP.
Financing. The total Bank financing under the component is estimated at US$123 million, including a
contingent loan facility amounting to US$100.0 million to finance insurance claims, premiums for
reinsurance and excess of loss contracts and re-insurance intermediary services for the total of US$20.8,
technical assistance in the establishment of TCIP, and incremental operating costs of US$2.2 million. The
costs of this component are summarized in Table 2.
The overall annual operating expenses of TCIP for the first year are estimated at around US$ 10 million net
of reinsurance cost (see Insurance Technical Paper III in PIP). This amount will have to be exclusively
financed by the Turkish Government. In addition, the Government would make a US$0.1 million in-kind
contribution toward the operating costs of the TMU. This contribution would include rent, travel, utilities
and staff costs. The Government would also cover any taxes/duties on locally procured goods, as well as
VAT on consultant services contracts.
The Bank will finance 100% of eligible claims, up to US$17 million, to the extent that accumulated
premiums are insufficient to fund them. The other aspect of Bank financing will be when the losses during
the initial years are greater than the funds built up in the pool, together with any reinsurance. In this
- 56 -



situation, the Bank will finance 100% of claims, which cannot be assumed either by TCIP itself or its
reinsurers up to US$100 million. However, commencing the nineteenth month of TCIP operations, the
Bank financing of eligible claims prior to any reinsurance will be reduced to 40%, with the remaining 60%
to be either financed by GOT or from other sources, mainly through premium income generated by TCIP.
The Bank will finance some TCIP start-up business costs directly related to project implementation, such
as technical assistance to TCIP and the TMU (both foreign and local), equipment, training, and incremental
operating costs, mainly the costs of short-term consultants hired for the purposes of assisting the TMU
during the implementation period. Additional financing of technical assistance and project incremental costs
in the US$6 million will be provided under the TEFER project.
Table 2: Costs of the Disaster Insurance Scheme
Bank            Government    TOTAL
Financing       Financing       (US$ million)
(US$ million)    (US$ million)
Technical Assistance to GDI in the       23.00           0.00            23.00
Establishment of the TCIP and reinsurance
Initial Capital Support of TCIP through an  100.00       150.00          250.00
Uncommitted Contingent Loan Facility                                    _
TOTAL                                    123.00        11150.00           273.00
Implementation. The implementing agency for the sub-component is the Turkey Catastrophic Insurance
Pool, a semi-independent public sector body to be established by the Government of Turkey. This legal
entity will carry responsibility for the sub-component. While TCIP is being established, the implementation
of the project will be commenced by the TCIP Management Unit set up within the GDI. Once TCIP is
formed and TCIP Board of Directors (which represent the Government and the interests of the private
sector and academic community) is appointed, the Management Unit will provide technical support to the
Board. The Management Unit will then be responsible for monitoring the performance of the Pool
Management Company, and provide substantive leadership for the sub-component, serve as an interface for
relations with the Government and the Bank on key issues of project implementation. Milli Re, has been
appointed by the Government to act as TCIP Management Company and carry out operational
management of the Pool. The Government has also designated the TEFER PIU to provide all required
procurement services. The organizational chart of the envisaged implementation arrangements is shown in
Insurance Technical Paper VIII (PIP). Discussion of the key elements of the project management structure
follows.
General Directorate of Insurance. The GDI will play a leading role in implementation. In the early stages,
a considerable number of detailed policy decisions will need to be made, and some of these will require
Government action. On an on-going basis the responsibilities of GDI will require that oversight be
maintained over TCIP, Milli Re, and the scheme as a whole.
TCIP Management Unit (TMU). A TCIP Management Unit will be set up within GDI to monitor the
performance of the Pool Management Company and to implement the Bank catastrophic insurance
sub-component. The TMU tasks and project-related activities will be directly linked to the GDI's
Earthquake Insurance Program, which will be achieved by the initial placement of the TMU within GDI,
and the on-going contribution of GDI's staff to the TMU.
- 57 -



The functions of the TMU will initially include:
* Procurement of the key service providers for TCIP, including the Investment Adviser, the Asset
Manager, and the Reinsurance Intermediary. Terms of reference will be drawn up, Requests for
Proposals developed and dispatched, evaluations conducted, and recommendations for appointment
made to TCIP Board
* Preparation of the Pool Management Contract and Service Agreements with Milli Re and insurance
companies, with the assistance of the Technical Advisers funded through the TEFER Project
And when TCIP is established and its Board appointed, the functions of the TMU will include:
* Preparation of annual budget estimates for project-related activities (tasks) and submission of them to
TCIP Board for approval
* Financial reporting to TCIP Board
* Transmission of claims reimbursement details to the Bank, the Treasury, or reinsurers as appropriate,
receiving disbursements relating to these, and making sure that payments on these are made promptly
to insured
* Tracking activities within the project, and in particular the Project Management Company
The Head of the TMU (Project Director) would be the head of the Earthquake Insurance Program and of
the Bank project and would be appointed by the GOT. The TMU staff would consist of the staff of the
Treasury, and consultants hired through the project insurance component. The GDI will initially contribute
4 staff members to the TMU.
The staff of the TMU will report to the Project Director on all substantive issues of project implementation.
Hiring of all consultants for the TMU will be subject to the Bank's procurement rules for the selection of
individuals. The TMU will be located initially on the premises of GDI, but may move to those of Milli Re
once the Pool is set up.
During the preparation and implementation stages of the project, the TMU will provide accounting and
financial reporting services in support of disbursements out of the Bank contingent loan facility.
Accounting and financial reporting services for all technical assistance related activities under the insurance
component will be provided by the PIU.
Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool. TCIP will be the body charged with the success of the overall
Government Earthquake Insurance Program and the body held accountable for any shortcomings. It will be
established by Governrnent decree to be signed by January 28, 2000. The objectives and the key principles
of its operations will be outlined in the package of catastrophic insurance legislation, which is currently
being prepared by the Treasury. TCIP is to be governed by a Board of seven members: three coming from
the Government, three from the insurance industry, and one a senior technical person skilled in earthquake
science or earthquake engineering. The main functions of the Board and key responsibilities of the Board
Members are spelled out in Insurance Technical Paper IV (PIP).
TCIP Management Company. Milli Re, the Turkish national re-insurance company, was appointed by
GOT as TCIP Management Company. The services to be performed by Milli Re will include management
of the distribution of policies and the settlement of claims (see Insurance Technical Paper V in PIP for
details). While Milli Re is already carrying out many of these functions locally, its expertise will be
augmented to assist in the major changes to a compulsory public scheme with somewhat different cover and
procedures. Twinning arrangements will be sought with CEA or EQC to share the experience of a
compulsory public earthquake scheme, with exchange of staff in both directions.
- 58 -



The new scheme requires significant IT services, both to record in a database the properties that are
insured, and also to track and account for transactions relating to premiums and claims. Of major
importance is the monitoring of the exposure of TCIP, both for the sake of its own risk management, and
also to assist in its dealings with reinsurers or capital markets. Provisions are made in the TEFER and the
current project to assist TCIP in setting up such systems.
Some of the activities will be carried out by commercial organizations chosen and contracted to do so.
These include the investment adviser, reinsurance intermediary, IT provider, and legal and PR advisers if
these are outsourced. Funding is provided under the sub-component for the initial appointment of the
investment adviser and the reinsurance intermediary, and for a substantial public education campaign.
Reinsurers. Since the exposure of TCIP commences as soon as its policies are issued, and since it will take
some time for funds to build up from premiums, reinsurance purchases will be made at an early date to
protect TCIP and the Government. The initial purchase, which is designed to provide for claims' payment
in the event of another earthquake in the near future, will be funded under the project.
Insurance Companies. Premium collection will be undertaken by participating insurers and their
widespread network of agents. IT system changes will be undertaken by the participating insurers, and staff
and agents will be trained in TCIP policy conditions and procedures. Funds to assist in the training will be
provided under the TEFER project. Audit and monitoring systems will also be established.
Project Implementation Unit. The PIU selected for the implementation of the MEER will assist with the
procurement of goods and services purchased with IBRD funding.
Local Government. Local government will also be involved in two ways. The real estate tax records at
local authorities will form the basis of insurance cover. Local government property tax inspectors will also
assist in the enforcement of the compulsory requirement to insure with TCIP.
Flow of Funds and Disbursement. TCIP will act as sole provider of mandatory earthquake insurance.
Policies will be issued by TCIP and distributed to the public through approved domestic insurers, who will
not assume any risk of loss. The standard form earthquake insurance policies will be for replacement costs
of property damaged or destroyed; however, policyholders may have the option of not replacing or
repairing such damaged property, electing instead to receive only its depreciated value. Applications for
withdrawal under TCIP component of the Bank Loan can only be made for claims by policyholders that
have elected to receive the replacement value of property damaged or destroyed in an earthquake ("Eligible
Claims"). As a result, both TCIP's and Milli Re's accounting systems will need to be able to distinguish
between claims for replacement value and claims for depreciated value, with only the former being eligible
for reimbursement under the Bank Loan.
Applications for withdrawal under the contingent facility loan could only be made after an earthquake and
would need to be accompanied by a certificate from a senior officer of TMU to the effect that (a) the
amount claimed is in respect of TCIP retention, or in respect of the excess of the reinsurance recoveries
(including both quota share and excess of loss covers), or both, in any case as in effect as at such date,
together with an indication of the relevant amount, (b) with respect to any amount claimed for purposes of
payment of TCIP retention, TCIP either has paid, or has funds available to pay, at least 60% of such
retention amount (with evidence satisfactory to the Bank) and the amount claimed does not exceed 40% of
the retention amount, (c) with respect to any amount claimed for purposes of the excess of the reinsurance
recoveries, the amount actually received by TCIP under reinsurance contracts then in effect (with evidence
- 59 -



satisfactory to the Bank), (d) the amount claimed has not been claimed previously, and (e) such amount
requested has not been financed and will not be financed from any other source, and will be used
exclusively for purposes of the payment of Eligible Claims. Notwithstanding (b) above, if requested by the
Government, the Bank will fund up to US$17 million toward the payment of the then applicable retention
amount. The maximum aggregate amount which the Bank will advance in respect of the payment of
reinsurance retentions and amounts in excess of reinsurance recoveries is equal to the amount of the Loan
allocated to such activity (US$ 1 00 million).
Based on the above, and assuming the absence of any event of suspension either under the MEER Loan, or
under any other loan made by the Bank to or guaranteed by the Republic of Turkey, the Bank will advance
the amount requested under the application for withdrawal to a segregated account opened in the name of
TCIP with a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank and which has previously provided to the Bank a
standard form comfort letter.
TCIP will be entitled to make multiple applications for withdrawal under TCIP contingent loan facility up
to the amount of the Loan allocated to such activity.
If claims from any one event exceed the total capital, credit and reinsurance resources available to TCIP,
then claims from that event.will be paid pro rata.
The operation is being designed in the context of the Bank's overall disaster management strategy to
cushion the impact of natural disasters on vulnerable groups through promotion of mitigation and
catastrophic insurance.
Sub-component A3: Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes (US$11.78 million)
Objectives. The sub-component objective is to reduce the vulnerability of the Marmara Earthquake Region
to natural hazards and to reduce the potential for future disaster losses in Turkey. To achieve this general
objective, the sub-component will support: (i) the review of ongoing proposals for modification in the
current legal and regulatory system and additional modifications as required, and (ii) the strengthening of
the municipal capability to plan, regulate and implement disaster resistant development.
The legislative review will comprise the (i) the Development Law, No. 3194, (ii) the Disaster Law, No.
7269, and (iii) the Tender Law, No. 2886. These three laws in combination are critical for effective disaster
mitigation through appropriate land use management and building safety regulation. In addition a
comprehensive review of the process for development of building codes and standards will be undertaken.
This sub-component will address as needed the strengthening of municipal capability to implement the rules
and regulations related to building location, design and construction. The strengthening of municipal
capability will entail an active program of training, technical assistance, key equipment upgrading, and
targeted training for decision-makers in the development process. These municipal strengthening activities
will be based on a series of pilot projects in selected municipalities. Although this program addresses the
needs in the damaged area, it is intended as a demonstration project that may, in the future, be expanded to
other risk-prone areas in Turkey.
Background. The earthquake of August 17, 1999 has demonstrated in a dramatic manner the deficiencies
of the land use management and building regulatory practices in Turkey. Many of the failures are related to
inappropriate siting and inadequate design and construction of buildings.
- 60 -



A significant portion of the loss of life and property has been associated with failure of buildings
constructed on soft, unconsolidated soils. Coastal areas including Golcuk, Yalova and Avcilar experienced
amplification of shaking and liquification related to local soil conditions. Adapazari also suffered the
consequences of weak soil conditions and subsequent foundation failures. This experience exemplifies the
first requirement of safe construction, i.e. identification of safe sites for construction.
The collapse and serious damages of over 1 00,000 structures demonstrated fundamental errors in design
(ie. failure to provide adequate shear resistance) and errors in construction (ie. poor quality of concrete or
misplaced reinforcing bars). These failures point out the need for more rigorous plan review and
construction site inspection to ensure that promulgated construction standards are implemented in the field.
It was noted by engineering assessment teams that few buildings which complied with published structural
standards suffered collapse or significant structural damage.
The clear evidence of the August 1999 Kocaeli earthquake is that uncontrolled development led to the
construction of non-code conforming structures on unsafe sites, in spite of the existence, in some cases, of
municipal development plans and the nation-wide building standards. In addition, the technical expertise is
available in Turkey to carry out detailed analysis of soil conditions (microzonation) and to maintain
appropriate standards for construction. Although many of the tools for safe development and construction
are known, the serious problem in Turkey is implementation. The current legal structure of public
responsibilities, liability, and standards of professional practice perpetuate the conditions which allow
continued unsafe development in hazardous areas. A combination of effective regulatory measures, market
incentives, training and public information can change the character of reconstruction and future
development to significantly reduce losses in future natural disasters. The Kocaeli earthquake also
significantly demonstrated the effectiveness of code conforming design and construction in reducing
disaster losses.
Overview of the Issues. The legal and organizational basis for the system of development control and
disaster management in Turkey are defined by the Development Law, the Law of Disasters, and the Tender
Law. The Development Law (No. 3194) and its related regulations define the process of preparation of
development plans and their applications, but makes no significant reference to natural disasters, while the
Law of Disasters deals primarily with the aftermath of natural disasters and makes very limited reference to
pre-disaster mitigation. The Tender Law sets the conditions for the implementation of public construction
projects. The Development Law provides little authority to municipalities to protect public safety in
buildings. Importantly, the Development Law has no effective interrelation with the Law of Disasters
(7269). Various central government authorities (ministries and other bodies) have authority for
development, preparation of plans, and rectification of plans and buildings with no effective legal
framework for their tasks and without clear principles of coordination.
While standards have been issued for seismic design of principal structural systems, there is no
comprehensive, unified building code in Turkey. This implies that both building designers and regulatory
officials work with an incomplete library of structural standards rather than a complete code addressing the
health and safety of building occupants. Lack of such a document with established legal authority both
complicates and weakens the design process and the regulatory function.
It is expected that the revised laws will embody, among others, the following standards and obligations:
1) Establish a program of professional licensing for building and development professionals, including
structural engineers, architects, contractors, building inspectors and city planners
- 61 -



2) Allow for a system of out-sourcing technical services for plan review and site inspection from Municipal
Building Departments to private supervisory firms, and establish a process for the certification of such
supervisory firms
3) Establish requirements for professional liability insurance to be carried by building professionals
licensed under (1) and for supervisory firms listed under (2)
4) Establish specific municipal and professional responsibilities and penalties for failure to carry out those
responsibilities
5) Establish a hierarchy and standardization of national, regional, and municipal plan documents
6) Establish the principle of special project zones and the transfer of development rights
7) Establish a process for the development, review and promulgation of a comprehensive unified building
code for Turkey.
Primary planning and building control lies with the municipalities and with the provincial local authorities
in areas external to municipal boundaries. In fact, municipalities are poorly equipped to carry out these
functions of development control because they lack technical manpower in sufficient numbers to deal with
the scale of the task. Municipalities effectively bear no liability for failure to fulfill their responsibilities for
development control. The process of plan review and building site inspection is currently intended to be
carried out by a "professional with technical liability" who is hired by the building owner or the contractor.
This practice clearly creates a serious conflict of interest in the building regulatory process. The public
interest in safety is not well represented in this process.
Municipalities operate under the administrative oversight of the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of
Interior does not have the appropriate capability to manage or evaluate the technical development functions
related to land use or building safety. At the same time municipalities are regulated by the Development
Law (3194) for which implementation responsibilities lie with the Ministry of Public Works and
Settlement. The Ministry of Public Works is the focus of responsibility for development of building codes
and the repository of engineering and planning expertise. The separation of administration responsibility (in
the Ministry of Interior) and the technical capability (in the Ministry of Public Works) for administration of
development has led to a weakened municipal control.
It has not been the practice of municipalities to remove illegal structures but rather since the 1 950s there
have been approximately fifteen development exemption laws legalizing unlicensed construction. These
amnesties for illegal construction have been politically popular and have seriously undermined the ability of
the municipality to regulate development.
While formal procedures exist for development planning and building regulation at the municipal level,
these processes have been largely ineffective at controlling development. Explosive illegal development has
ignored municipal development plans and the building regulatory process. Lacking adequate resources or
political support for enforcement, municipalities have on numerous occasions sanctioned and rewarded
illegal development through amnesty programs.
Finally, individual responsibilities in the production of planning and building projects and their
implementation are not clearly elaborated, and no effective penalties for failure to carry out responsibilities
- 62 -



are spelled out in the Development Law.
Description. Following the objectives of this sub-component, the activities proposed fall into two
categories: those addressing the national adoption of new development, disaster and procurement related
legislation, and those focusing on the enforcement responsibilities at the municipal level. Both categories
can be summarized as follows:
Legislative Framework (US$1.17 million). It is anticipated that current, emergency, legislative work on
the Development, Disaster, and Tender laws will result in a substantially improved legal framework for
land development and construction. The activities under this sub-component will support the rapid
promulgation and adoption of this new legislation.
Insupport of the modifications of the legal framework, this sub-component will finance the following
activities:
*   A comprehensive study of the Disaster Law with particular emphasis on provisions for pre-disaster
mitigation planning and incentives for effective mitigation investment by government, the private sector
and individuals. The study should provide concrete recommendations for modification of the law and
related regulations.
*  A comprehensive study of the Tender Law with particular emphasis on the implications of the current
procurement process for public buildings for building quality and public safety. The study should
provide specific recommendations for the reformulation of the law to ensure a process of procurement
which provides effective control for building quality and code compliance.
*  A comparative evaluation of operational procedures in the mortgage markets of selected countries,
focusing on those requirements of financial institutions extending mortgages, that enhance the
application of and adherence to local building codes.
*   Support for consideration of the full text of proposed revisions to the Development Law provided in the
report of the Erzincan Emergency Recovery Project "Revision of the Turkish Development Law No.
3194 and Its Attendant Regulations with the Objective of Establishing a New Building Construction
Supervision System Inclusive of Incorporating Technical Disaster Resistance-Enhancing Measures",
and land use management and related provisions.
*   A comprehensive study of the process of development, review and promulgation of building codes and
standards in Turkey. This study should evaluate the current process of building standards development
and the feasibility of a comprehensive, unified building code addressing the full range of building safety
issues. Specific recommnendations should be developed for the institutionalization of the processes of
development, promulgation, and dissemination of the code. The legal status of codes, reference
standards and commentary should be addressed (See Terms of Reference in the PIP).
*   Organize with the Ministry of Public Works, and selected municipalities a series of stakeholder
seminars on the topic of "Implementation of Development Regulation for Disaster Reduction and
Public Safety."
*   Technical assistance to review and guide the on-going certification process for building inspectors.
- 63 -



Pilot Municipality Studies and Technical Assistance (US$4.79 million). The August 17, 1999
earthquake has provided ample evidence of the need for greater organized disaster mitigation capability at
the level of municipalities. Municipal governments have primary responsibility for urban planning and
urban service delivery. Municipalities require the tools and the technical capability to implement
comprehensive disaster management including appropriate disaster mitigation measures associated with
land use management and building regulation. These functions require detailed knowledge of urban
infrastructure systems and critical facilities.
The strategy to bring about improved and effective development regulation at the local level will be based
on a series of pilot projects in selected municipalities. The series of pilot projects will proceed
incrementally. The first project will be initiated in the municipality of Eskisehir, and two other
municipalities in the earthquake effected area, and it will then be extended to a total of six municipalities.
The list of potential candidates includes Izmit, Adapazari, Bursa, Canakkale, Golcuk, Istanbul and
Tekirdag. The list includes heavily damaged municipalities and municipalities subject to high risk of future
disasters. In addition, direct technical assistance with municipal land use planning and the process of
extending building permits will be provided to Golcuk and Adapazari.
The sub-component will assist municipal technical departments (planning and building regulation
departments) in the following activities:
*   Development of Risk-Based Municipal Master Plans. These plans will be based on detailed hazard and
vulnerability assessments. They will designate hazard areas on which development is prohibited and
zones in which special precaution must be exercised. In seismically active areas, these plans may
require detailed microzonation studies to identify safe development sites
3   Establishment of means for effective building code implementation in the municipality to ensure that
plan review and site inspection functions are carried out properly by appropriately trained engineering
professionals
3   Technical assistance to the municipal planning and building departments of Golcuk and Adapazari with
the day-to-day application of procedures mentioned in the two points above
*   Development and publishing of municipal regulations to ensure that the appropriate professional
licensing procedure is followed and that only qualified licensed engineers, architects, contractors and
building inspectors practice in the municipality
*   Development of programs for the evaluation of existing buildings to determine future damage potential,
and appropriate requirements for upgrading or removal of hazardous buildings
*   Creation of municipal ordinances that mandate immediate demolition of structures built in
contravention of municipal master plans or building codes
*   Creation of mechanisms to incorporate effective community participation in the planning process
particularly regarding issues concerned with public safety and community well-being.
In order to effectively provide the assistance listed above, the sub-component will finance the following
activities and, subsequently, four programs to bring this knowledge to the six municipal entities for whose
use it is intended.
-64 -



Hazard and Vulnerability Studies. A program of risk analysis and hazard mapping will be developed at the
municipal level. Hazard mapping will provide the basis for risk-based urban development planning and
vulnerability assessment will provide the basis for estimation of future losses and prioritization of
mitigation investments.
Capability Assessment of Municipal Regulatory Functions. Evaluation staff resources, professional
competencies, equipment resources and implementation authorities will be carried out by international and
national consultants to determine specific needs in the areas of training and equipment for departments
responsible for land use management and building regulation.
Training Needs Assessment. A detailed assessment of professional competency of regulatory staff will be
carried out to determine specific function related training needs. Training needs assessment will include all
elements of the land use and building regulatory functions.
Equipment Needs Assessment. Based on the detailed evaluation of current regulatory practice, the
assessment of staff capability, and the assessment of necessary workload recommendations will be
developed for appropriate equipment procurement. Such equipment needs are anticipated in the areas of
data management and geographic information systems.
Equipment Upgrade for Land Use management. Based on the capability and equipment needs assessment
recommendations limited equipment procurements will be carried out. Equipment and software
procurements will be compatible with planned development in related data systems and compatible with
realistic assessment of skill levels and useful applications. GIS applications for hazard management are of
particular interest.
Equipment Upgrade for Building Code Enforcement. Based on the capability and equipment needs
assessment for the building regulatory function in the six pilot municipalities limited equipment and
software procurement will be carried out. Administrative and database management software for the
building regulatory function and modeling software for loss estimation may be considered.
Training Design and Pilot Application (US$3.00 million). A training program for municipal planning
and building regulatory staff will be developed and organized in the selected pilot municipalities. It will
focus on ways and means of creating within municipal planning and building departments a professional
capacity to implement effectively what the law requires (the terms of reference for the training program are
in the Project Implementation Plan). This training will be based on the training assessment carried out
under the pilot municipal studies.
Training Design for Land Use Management. Training addressed to the needs of practicing land use and
urban development planners will be developed with special emphasis on the application of natural hazards
data to the creation of hazard maps and their incorporation into master plan special project zone plan
documents. Training will also focus on the methods of public information and public participation in
planning as means to support public safety interest in limiting illegal land use. Changes in the
Development Law will be addressed.
Training Design for Building Code Enforcement. Training will be developed for the range of building
department functions including plan review, construction site inspection and evaluation of hazardous
buildings. Special attention will be focused on the creation and maintenance of building inventory data
bases. Instruction will be provided on recent and prospective changes in the Development Law and their
implications for the regulatory function. Administrative functions associated with the management of
- 65 -



out-sourced technical functions will also be addressed.
Pilot Training Delivery. The training materials developed for the land use management staff and the
building regulatory staff will be delivered in pilot sessions to the land use and building regulatory staff
members of the six pilot study municipalities. These training sessions will be rigorously evaluated for
effective learning, skill retention and job relevance.
Nation-wide Municipal Staff Training. Once the training programs for land use planners and building
regulators are piloted, evaluated and refined it is intended that they will be delivered to all municipal staff
responsible for aspects of land use management and building regulation. Initial priority will be placed on
the training of personnel from municipalities located in high risk areas. These training sessions will be
organized with the collaboration of appropriate professional and government organizations.
Targeted Training for Decision Makers in the Development Process (US$2.82 million). Once the
training need of the municipal regulatory staffs have been addressed it is critical to address the information
and training needs of the primary decision makers in the development and building processes. Compliance
with the regulatory structure related to disaster mitigation will require broad professional and public
support and understanding. Targeted programs of training will be developed for five categories of decision
makers who play a key role in the implementation of development and building standards. These specialized
audiences are: architects and engineers; building contractors and developers; mayors and municipal
councils; governors and provincial administrators; and building owners and users. Each of these audiences
will be introduced to the municipal development and building regulatory system and its particular
relationship to their activities. In the case of building professionals the focus will be on training for code
and regulatory compliance. For the political and administrative leaders the focus will be on administrative
responsibilities and the exercise of police powers to enforce regulations. Building owners and users, the
largest group will be trained in the importance of regulatory compliance for public safety and loss reduction
and issues of liability.
Costs. The accompanying table shows a summary of costs for the activities proposed above. Cost
estimates for the technical assistance are based on recent experience, international and local, for such
studies and consultants. Assumptions on the costs of staff training and later extension are in the footnotes
to the table 3.
Table 3: Costs of the Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes
Bank         Government   TOTAL
Financing    Financing      (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million)
Legislative Framework                      1.06         0.11            1.17
Pilot Municipality Studies and Technical  4.31          0.48           4.79
Assistance
Training Design and Pilot Application     2.70          0.30           3.00
Targeted Training for Decision Makers in the   2.54     0.28           2.82
Development Process
TOTAL                                      10.61        1.17           11.78
Expected Output. The expected output of this sub-component will be a dramatically improved land
management and building regulatory system in Turkey which will effectively deal with the root cause of
- 66 -



natural disasters which have plagued this country throughout history. The modernized legal framework and
enhanced enforcement capability at the municipal level will reverse the trend of constantly increasing
disaster vulnerability. Training of key decision makers will provide both political and market support for
disaster mitigation.
Implementation. The PIU will have overall responsibility for administrative and financial management
tasks related to the implementation of this sub-component. Procurement will follow the overall procurement
rules agreed for the project.
The activities related to the support of the legislative framework will be implemented by the MPWS under
the supervision of the PIU.
The pilot municipal studies will be carried out according to agreements between the PIU and each selected
municipality. These agreements will stipulate all rights and obligations of both parties and will define
eligibility criteria for individual participants under the programs. The training programs will be designed
and conducted by consulting entities contracted for the purpose under standard procurement rules for
technical assistance.
Flow of Funds. The Special Account will contain a line item for this sub-component. The PIU will make
periodic payments to contractors under the program, based on the contractual terms agreed upon, which
will include agreed upon measures of performance.
Per diem for lodging and subsistence to be paid to participants of municipal training programs will be paid
out in cash directly to participants on a weekly basis against individual receipts by the entity responsible
for the training course. Resources for this payment will be handed to the senior representative of the
contracted entity by the PIU, against simple receipt, but with a lien of equal value on future payments to
the entity under its training program contract. Submission of all individual receipts for per diem by the
contracting entity to the PIU, against a receipt for that submission, and acceptance of these receipts by the
PIU, will automatically lift the lien on future payments to the contracting entity. The same procedure will
apply for the per diem payments associated with the extension of the program to all Turkish municipalities.
Sub-component A4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management (US$24.21 million).
Objectives. The primary objective is to establish a land information system as a tool for supporting the
reconstruction and development of the Marmara Earthquake Region (Marmara Earthquake Region Land
Information System - MERLIS). In particular, the sub-component will support activities to: (i) supply
current and reliable land information to cope with the post-earthquake situation, update and improve the
obsolete registers and maps; (ii) support land supply operations with emphasis on housing schemes and the
overall improvement of the land market.
Brief Description. Turkey's rapid urbanization of the '50s increased demand for infrastructure and brought
to the fore apparent deficiencies in zoning and city planning. Inappropriate siting of constructions and
absence of zoning and its enforcement had serious repercussions on the quality and, indeed, availability of
housing. Measures that were necessary to make appropriate infrastructure investments an integral part of
housing developments, such as zoning ordinances and land use planning, were hindered by the lack of
proper land information data. The delay in establishing a well-functioning cadastral system and,
consequently, in completing proactive urban planning, as well as the delay in recording government owned
- 67 -



land, which covers even today around 55 percent of Turkey's territory, created conditions that encouraged
illegal occupation of government owned land and disrespect of building regulations.
The building boom that started in the '50s and that mushroomed largely in a regulatory vacuum,
encouraged speculative searches for economic rents through the violation of building regulations, often in
residential complexes built on land whose ownership was uncertain, and probably governmental. Adding
floors to existing buildings without proper engineering calculations, exceeding building heights beyond
what is allowed under the building codes, building on unstable soils with high risks of liquefaction in case
of earthquakes, etc. became normal practices. In addition, three nation wide amnesties, in 1983, 1984 and
1986, legalizing what had been built in contravention of the law, further aggravated the situation.
Four central government agencies are of importance in the context of appropriate land registration, use and
zoning: the Directorate General of Land Registry and Cadastre, the Directorate General of State Land, the
Directorate General of National Property and the Mass Housing Authority.
Land registry and cadastre is the responsibility of the Directorate General of Land Registry and Cadastre
(T.C. Basbakanlik Tapu ve Kadastro Genel Mudiirliigu - TKGM). TKGM is a central government agency
with regional and local offices, which closely cooperate with municipal planning departments and other
relevant municipal offices. According to TKGM, 99.5 percent of all urban areas and 83% of all rural areas
are covered by cadastral records, covering a total of 417,000 kmu of Turkey. Another 200,000 km are
classified as forest and is under the jurisdiction of the cadastre department of the Ministry of Forestry.
Lakes and economically unimportant areas make up the remaining 170,000 km . The area affected by the
recent earthquakes, here referred to as the Marmara Earthquake Region (MER) is approximately 36,000
km . TKGM employs around 12,500 individuals.
Although nearly the entire country is covered by cadastral records, the quality of existing maps is
insufficient, and differences exist in map format and scale between different cadastral offices. It is difficult
to create common documents with the same scale and coordinate systems. Moreover, maps are not updated
regularly. As a result, the records of land ownership are ambivalent, notably with respect to state owned
lands. In addition, cadastral records, and by extension land ownership, are considered confidential and are
not open to public scrutiny.
TKGM is aware of the shortcomings of the country's cadastral system and of the implications this has for
economically sound, and socially appropriate, development, and has elaborated plans to remedy the
situation.
The Directorate General of State Land (T.C. Basbakanlik Arsa Ofisi Genel MudUrlulgu) was founded in
1969 to supply state owned land suitable for construction. The SLO zones the land, prepares the city plans
and creates parcels suitable for marketing. Its objective is to regulate the supply of land in order to curb
speculation. However, the scale of its activity has not been sufficient and it has had limited impact on
curbing land speculation and on the illegal occupation of state owned lands.
The main source of land for the developments supported by the Directorate General of State Land is the
Directorate General of National Property (T.C. Maliye Bakanligi, Milli Emlak Genel Miidiirlugu). This
directorate general oversees the nearly 55 percent of Turkey's territory that belongs to government and,
reportedly, also deals with all expropriated land.
A second venue to develop and market government land is via the Mass Housing Authority (Toplu Konut
- 68 -



Idaresi Baskanligi - TOKI). However, the Directorate General of National Property does not give land
directly to TOKI, it has to pass through the Directorate General of State Land. TOKI is sponsoring
legislation that would allow direct transfer of state owned lands from the Directorate General of National
Property to it.
Damages. In addition to the cadastre and map related problems mentioned above, existing as-built maps
became obsolete after the earthquake. Several offices and related equipment of the TKGM were damaged.
Soil movements along the fault line have changed the topography and moved the borders of certain
cadastral pieces by more than two meters.
Damages that can be attributed indirectly to the faults of the cadastre system are those that are the direct
result of inappropriate siting and construction, itself an outcome of the regulatory vacuum mentioned
earlier.
Activities to Be Undertaken. The earthquakes' damage created a large demand for new housing and
industrial and business premises. In as much as victims do not reconstruct their homes themselves, the new
housing will be partly furnished by government and partly by charities. Businesses will, by and large,
depend on insurance and on own and borrowed resources for reconstruction. As a result of the expected
building boom, properly zoned and planned land in the area of the earthquakes is urgently demanded. The
activities proposed here will assist government in supplying this land and will create conditions for proper
zoning and land use planning.
Cadastre Renovation (US$20.83 million) Following the earlier initiatives and plans of the General
Directorate of Land Registration and Cadastre aiming at the improvement of the Turkish Land Registration
and Cadastre System, and considering the urgent needs of municipalities and district cadastral offices in the
region under consideration, two sets of activities are proposed:
(i) The sub-component will finance the production of digital orthophoto maps, referenced to the Turkish
geodetic control framework at map scales 1:1000 for urban areas and areas of planned development,
1:5000 for the rural area of the Marmara Earthquake Region. These orthophoto products will be used as
source of current information supporting inventory and immediate planning, and will serve as a valuable
layer of base maps, including cadastral maps. The sub-component will also finance the production of
digital vector base maps, meeting the Turkish 1:1000 map standards, for the areas of 1:1000 orthophoto
mapping. At the same time cadastre registers and maps will be renovated to achieve the required
consistency with the base map, land registration and cadastral information.
- 69 -



(ii) The sub-component will finance the design, implementation and operation of MERLIS (Marmara
Earthquake Region Land Information System), a database that will include geoinformation mentioned
above under (i), geographically distributed throughout the region in the network of local cadastre offices.
Since the cadastral information made available by MERLIS must be supported by institutional,
organizational and technical measures, the project will include pertinent training and otherwise
strengthening of the cadastre's local offices. The primary users of the MERLIS will be land registration
and cadastre offices, planning and other technical and managerial departments of municipalities, and
citizens of the region. The system will maintain data vital to the reconstruction and future development of
the Marmara Earthquake Region.
Land Management (US$J.38 million) This activity aims at speeding up the process of supplying land
suitable for construction by strengthening the operations of the General Directorate of State Land in the
Marmara Earthquake Region. Strengthening will be twofold, in the form of: (i) increased operational
capacity of field offices, and (ii) institutional improvements that will lead to a rationalization of the use of
state lands and will, therefore, contribute to the further development of Turkey's land market. These
operational objectives are reflected in the terms of reference for the technical assistance contained in the
PIP.
One of the key problems of the Marmara Earthquake Region is lack of land suitable for development and
safe construction. Due to historical reasons more than 50% of land belongs to the Turkish Government. As
briefly described earlier, it is the role of the General Directorate of State Land, functioning under the Prime
Minister, to supply prospective land users with land within the required land use zones. Incompleteness of
the land register and cadastre information, and long administrative and technical procedures hinder the
process of land acquisition and distribution by the General Directorate of State Land.
Since the availability of suitable land is critical for reconstruction in the Marmara Earthquake Region, it is
proposed to strengthen the General Directorate of State Land, in particular its regional departments.
Through assistance to human resources and supply of material needs this general directorate will be able to
establish selected new offices and organize new field teams in the area.
Costs and financing Conditions. A summary of the costs for this sub-component is shown in the table 4.
Table 4: Costs of the Cadastre Renovation and Land Management
Bank         Government   TOTAL
Financing    Financing     (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million)
Cadastre Renovation                      17.71        3.12           20.83
Land Management                          2.87         0.51           3.38
Total                                    20.58        3.63           24.21
Outputs. The expected outputs are: (i) renovated land registration and cadastre of the MER (some 36,000
Km2) with relevant spatial and descriptive geoinformation, transformed into a multi-purpose land
information system (MERLIS); (ii) strengthened operational units of the General Directorate of State Land
to speed up the land supply process with trained, well equipped working teams, supported by consultants.
In a broader, national context, this component will serve as a pilot project to improve land related activities
in Turkey, as planned by the General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre.
- 70 -



Implementation. Implementation will be guided by the "MERLIS Committee" established under the
project. Chairman of this committee will be the General Director of Land Registration and Cadastre. Its
membership will comprise: a representative of the General Directorate of State Land, representatives of key
municipalities in the Marmara Earthquake Region, representatives of central government agencies involved
with the reconstruction efforts, and others upon invitation by the chairman. The committee will act as a
consultative body to formulate land policy improvements in the region, express opinions on project
planning and implementation, ensure availability and transparency of information to users of cadastral
data, particularly municipalities, evaluate and comment on operational results and assure that the MERLIS
remains up-to-date and relevant.
In order to support the committee and to implement the proposed activities, the PIU will enter into
implementation protocols with: (i) the General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre for the
implementation of the activities related to cadastre renovation, and with the General Directorate of State
Land to implement activities related to land management. These protocols will contain indicators of
performance against which gradual disbursement of funds will be made. Terms of the proposed protocols,
including proposed rights and obligations of the two governmental parties to the contracts, are in the PIP.
Beneficiaries. At central Government level the primary beneficiaries are the General Directorate of Land
Registry and Cadastre and the General Directorate of State Land. At local level, the principal beneficiaries
are the municipal planning and engineering departments and, generally, the development industry and its
clientele.
Flow of Funds. Funds will be disbursed by the PIU to contractors, in the case of financing of equipment,
specialized services and technical assistance. The PIU will ascertain that all contracts, insofar as this is
pertinent, will follow applicable Bank procedures for procurement.
Project Component 2 - US$6.89 million
Component B - Trauma Program for Adults (US$6.89 million).
Objectives. The component will (i) contribute to the immediate reduction of the negative effects on health
and functional ability among adults affected by the earthquake, including the restoration of normalized
living and working conditions in the affected area; (ii) support the strengthening of Community Mental
health services, including trauma related work, in the affected region and later across the whole of Turkey;
and (iii) support the reconstruction of working life and the reinsertion of adults into the workforce in the
earthquake zone.
Background: Mental Health Consequences of the earthquake. The August 17th earthquake and
aftershocks have contributed not only to physical damage and death, but to high levels of apprehension,
anxiety and despair among the local population, which reduces their ability to recover from the disaster.
Many have witnessed violent deaths and lost family, friends and everything they had, home, job,
community ties and network. Those with the least economic resources lost the most since their houses were
the most vulnerable and they had least reserves to cope with the devastation.
A social survey conducted in the affected region a month after the disaster (see annex 10) indicates that
more than 50% of the survivors suffer serious mental health problems including extreme fear, depression
and sleeping troubles, and an even higher percentages of children suffer similar symptoms. Impressions
from mental health personnel in the region support such numbers. In addition to ordinary people, the care
givers, rescue workers, emergency personnel of all kinds and those providing medical, social and
- 71 -



psychological assistance also suffer heavy burdens of traumatic experiences, and will do so for a longer
time. Experience from large-scale disasters suggests that even if the most severe symptoms diminish to
some degree over time, the affected population and many disaster workers will continue to carry a high risk
of suffering serious health and psychological problems for years to come.
Short term effects experienced during the first few weeks include: shock (disorientation, emotional
numbness, intrusive images and recollections, irritability, sleeping troubles, reduced concentration and
decision making abilities); stress effects/over-stimulation: (inability to switch off, overreaction - ie jumping
out of windows - not recognizing needs for rest, sleep, food or social support, psychosomatic symptoms,
headaches, tiredness, exhaustion and withdrawal); thinking disturbances (reduced ability to perceive
accurately, analyze, understand evaluate, make judgements and plan, leading sometimes to phobias and
avoidance of places/people); loss of personnel identity: (disorientation and confusion, sense of not
belonging and losing touch with their lives). These require a variety of different responses including
specific types of trauma counseling, public information and commnunity support.
Medium term effects include: overwork, exhaustion and burnout; chronic stress effects, psychosomatic
disturbances and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD); illnesses and accidents; depression; anxiety
disorders, compulsive disorders and personality disturbances; isolation; family tension and troubles.
Longer term effects which become evident predominantly in the second, third and fourth years do not
always mean that the people concerned are in need of formal mental health services. Here the more
awareness and knowledge there is in the community about human responses to disaster, the less these
services are likely to be required. Support from community and social networks may be sufficient for
reasonable coping, although mental health information and consultation should be an integral part of long
term recovery services. Thus, community awareness and education, a full range community and primary
care services, community network building, group work of different sorts, cultural activities and an active
participation in planning and redevelopment are all important elements on a long term program level are
required.
In the period since the earthquake, various organizations have been working in the tent camps on a
voluntary basis to try to relieve some of the most overt symptoms within the camp population. Some of
these volunteers have received training in the most modern techniques including cognitive behavioral
therapy and rapid eye-movement. Locally, support has been received from the Ministry of Health (MOH),
the Turkish Paychologist's Association and local Universities such as Kocaeli. However, the voluntary
system is not sustainable in the long term and there is a desperate need for additional personnel, and
increased training in techniques which are proven to reduce symptoms quickly following disasters, in
addition to long term capacity building in modern mental health treatments. These would help to ensure
that the local population can begin to function at its normal level as soon as possible contributing to the
earlier normalization of society and the effective restoration of the economy
Project Description. To address some of these issues, the project has two main components: (i)
Establishment of Community Mental Health Centers in Izmit Adapazari, Golcuk and Yalova; and (ii)
Establishment of a program for psychological and organizational support to organizations and businesses
affected by the earthquake.
Community Mental Health (CMH) Services (US$4.28 million). This activity has the following
objectives: (i) to establish one major community mental health (CMH) center, possibly in Izmit with
out-reach CMH centers in Adapazari, Golcuk and Yalova; (ii) to establish a cost-efficient treatment
program for disaster victims in the area, through the treatment centers; and (iii) to plan and implement the
development of a training program in mental health services for the whole of Turkey.
- 72 -



Activities will include a more comprehensive assessment to determine the exact needs and resources in the
various existing service delivery locations. This will include a series of meetings with relevant partners at
central and peripheral level to establish consensus among the partners with regard to management aspects,
final project strategies and activities, and confirm reporting obligations. This assessment will form the basis
for final development of training curricula, training program, and final plans for location and operation of
the CMH centers. It will focus on training and support needs for public servants, health personnel,
hospitals and technical support to Universities.
CMH centers will be built using prefabricated houses in locations identified by the MOH and municipality
during the assessment. The centers will be equipped for project administration, training and treatment
purposes. The main one will probably be located in Izmit and will comprise: a) 5-6 interview/ treatment
rooms; b) a large multi-purpose day treatment room/training center; c) 2-3 group therapy rooms; d) an
administration office; and e) a library/documentation center; f) a waiting room. Outreach Centers located in
Adapazari, Golcuk and Yalova will comprise: a) 4 interview/ treatment rooms; b) a large multi-purpose
day treatment room/training center; c) I group therapy room; d) an administration office; and e) a
library/documentation center; f) waiting area.
Each center will include: a) a library of books, articles, videos and information materials; b) audio-visual
and training equipment; and c) office equipment (incl. PCs with printers, photocopier, other equipment).
They will be staffed by clinical professionals including psychologists, nurses and social workers supported
by a secretary/administrator in each center. For transportation purposes, three minibuses will be procured
for transportation of staff for training purposes and for out-reach services by the staff in the communities.
Training. The project will offer regular training and supervision of project partners by a team of national
and international consultants. It will include training of trainers who will then train local staff, as well as
direct training to clinicians themselves through a matrix of training services. International consultants will
also provide debriefing direct to clinicians in the affected areas. The training will be held throughout the
three year period of the project and, in the later stages, will be directed across the whole of Turkey. It will
include: a) Early Detection and Screening of Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and complicated brief
syndromes in adults and children; b) Stress Management and Coping Skills related to both Traumatic and
Chronic Stress; c) Individual and Group Psychotherapy, with special emphasis on modern cognitive -
behavioral methods and techniques and family therapy; and d) Strategies and methods of providing mental
health related information to the public and to different organizations and agencies to stimulate awareness
and support and guide mental health promotion in society at large.
The training will be targeted to different groups of intervention and prevention providers: a) Mental Health
Clinicians for pre-school and school-aged children, families, and adults exhibiting service symptoms over
time; b) Health Care Providers (local health directors, primary health physicians, internists, surgeons,
pediatrics, nurses, midwifes, social workers); c) Para-Professional providers (graduate students in public
health, psychology, social work and education) for the general adult and child population exhibiting less
severe symptomatology; and d) Community Leaders (school principals and counselor, public safety
workers local and provincial government officials, religious leaders, army and police commanders,
employers and managers of business and organizations) for their constituents of subordinates, teachers,
followers and employees.
In addition to clinical training, a three-year training program will be established for the project staff,
focusing on methods for service delivery, project management and implementation and methods for project
evaluation. The training program will be carried out by national and international experts. Training
- 73 -



manuals and materials will be developed/adapted for use by the project, and specific treatment protocols
will be implemented and evaluated to ensure the development of the most cost-efficient methods for
treatment of traumatized populations. Selected project partners will be able to attend international
conferences and seminars to present their activities and exchange experiences with others involved in
similar projects.
Counseling and Treatment. The CMH centers will provide counseling and treatment to adults, children
and families who visit the centers, as well as through out-reach activities carried out by the center staff.
The primary mental health rehabilitation services will be provided free of charge to the population. These
services will be closely coordinated with parallel activities in the education and social services, and with the
specialized services provided at the tertiary level (specialized mental health and psychiatric services).
Treatment will be free of charge for the clients, and be covered by the regular health service system in
Turkey. If necessary, patients in need of treatment which can not be provided by the centers will be referred
to inpatient clinics including Bakirkoy Hospital or other inpatient centers in the region.
Disaster Preparedness. The project will have a strong preventive component that includes focus on
disaster preparedness plans and strategies. In collaboration with relevant authorities, the project will
contribute to improvement of existing disaster preparedness plans as well as developing local mental health
disaster preparedness plans.
Public Information Campaigns. As part of the project, public information campaigns, including both
printed and audio-visual materials, will be planned and executed through mass media and other information
channels to disseminate knowledge about normal reactions to disasters, as well as for dissemination of
information about available services. This will support the de-mystification of the role of mental health
services to the general population, information about where to seek mental health services, and also
decrease the negative after-effects of the disaster through its educational component.
Policy development. The project is expected to produce results that will impact on future development of
community mental health services in Turkey, as well as on the further development of disaster preparedness
plans.
Implementation. The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Health (MOH) which will set up an
internal Task Force to ensure effective implementation. The Task Force will work closely with the PIU in
Ankara and the local PIUs set up in the four main cities affected by the earthquake for the duration of the
project. While the PIU will be responsible for all contracting in line with Bank procedures, the MOH Task
Force will work to support the establishment and staffing of CMH Centers in selected locations in the
disaster area. These centers will be under the overall coordination and management of the MOH with
support from Bakirkoy Mental Health hospital in Istanbul, local University Mental Health units and
provincial health care services. An international project partner will provide ongoing project support
including technical assistance, training and materials to help develop and support the specialized skills
required for both the management and clinical implementation of the service delivery in the affected area.
A coordination committee for the project will be formed by representatives from Ministry Health,
Universities, hospitals and associations, Social Services and the Child Protection Foundation, Ministries of
Education, Labour and Social Security and other related ministries, provinces and municipalities, staff
from the CMH centers and representatives of the involved donor organizations and their partners. The
Committee will meet every three months in order to make proposals for the development of the mental
health services in the area. Links will also be made with other related projects in the social sector such as
the Bank financed social sector and employment project of the Ministry of Labour.
- 74 -



CMH centers will be established under the guidance of this committee and equipped by this project. The
centers will be staffed by employees of the health services, and supplemented by additional support and
professional staff in the initial project period. Visiting professionals, volunteers and others involved in
services in the disaster region will be invited to supplement the staff and assist in project implementation.
Training and technical assistance will be provided by specialists with the most up to date and tested
methods of trauma counseling, and stress relief in disaster situations, with a strong track record of
delivering programs of this type including both the clinical and organizational aspects of health care
delivery.
Expected Outcomes. The expected outcomes are: (i) four community mental health centers in the disaster
area, with a main center in Izmit; (ii) immediate increase in service delivery to local population through
group and individual counseling by personnel trained in specialist techniques and working as professionals
in the region; (iii) development of new strategies and methodologies for therapeutic support to populations
affected by large-scale disaster in Turkey; (iv) decreased negative after-effects among the affected
populations; (v) documented effects of intervention strategies at several levels; (vi) contributions towards
reforms of the community mental health services; (vi) improved psychosocial/mental health disaster
preparedness plans.
Time schedule. The project is planned for three years: (i) establishment of the centers, initial training and
development of project methodologies, including rapid delivery of services for immediate trauma relief of
earthquake victims; (ii) training activities will be more limited, and there will be strong emphasis on
evaluation of the results, and increased concentration on the longer term effects of trauma; (iii) project
results will be documented and utilized for development of policies, for preparation of plans for extension
of the project to other parts of Turkey, and publication of results.
Flow of Funds. All funds will be disbursed by the PIU. Payment of salaries for all local consultants
(clinical staff) will be done directly by the PIU through.
Psychological support to organizations and businesses affected by the earthquake (US$2.61 million).
This activity has the following objectives: (i) to provide psychological debriefing, trauma counseling and
related management consultation and organizational development to organizations and businesses affected
by the earthquake in the short term; (ii) to develop long-term programs for improved psychosocial
environment in the work place; (iii) to create a flexible non-profit organization (attached to an existing
NGO) with specialist skills and the capability to respond to future disasters
With the example of the Turkish Psychologists Association and Kocaeli University in mind, a project office
and team will be established and staffed by a manager, administrative staff and by clinical staff to offer its
services to organizations, businesses and industry in the disaster-affected areas. These services will focus
both on the psychological impact of the disaster on individuals, and on the impact of the organizations
themselves. This will include aspects like management consultation, organizational development as
organizations have to change anyway to adapt to the new reality, and the overall psychosocial environment
of the work places in addition to basic trauma relief and counseling.
The organization will be set up within an NGO or similar existing non-profit organization with the intention
that, within 2 years, it will become an entirely self-financing non-profit arm of an existing organization or a
separate entity. The project staff will be recruited and salaried covered ubder the project, initially at 100%
a year and reduced to 50% in the second year. In the third year the project staff will be self-financing on a
fee for service basis, while the project will continue to receive support for training and documentation of
- 75 -



project achievements.
Establish project team and office. Staff will be recruited and project office established with one of the
project partners. In parallel, the organizational framework within which the unit will function will be
established. The project teams will start to provide services in the disaster region as soon as the teams is
established. A team of 10 psychologists and other professionals will be hired to work specifically for this
project for the entire project period. The project office will comprise: a) administration office including
meeting room; b) a training room; and c) a library. It will be equipped with the required office and training
equipment. In support of the activities, three cars will be procured for the project.
The project will be housed within an existing resource institution in the region. Most activities are,
however, expected to take place inside the organizations and businesses in which the project will be
implemented.
Training. Once recruited, the project staff will undergo a training program in crisis psychology and
organizational psychology. This will not only develop these skills in project staff, but also ensure that a
coherent project philosophy and methodology is established within the project. Project manuals and
materials will be produced in support of this training, which will be delivered by national and international
experts.
The training and project materials will focus on: a) Psychological debriefing of personnel; b) Management
consultation following a disaster; c) Organizational development following a disaster; d) Social support
systems in organizations; and e) Disaster preparedness.
This component would be designed, managed and delivered by international specialists in the area of
trauma counseling and crisis psychology, especially in the workplace.
Information campaign. An information campaign will be carried out in the disaster area to inform about
the availability of the services and how businesses can organize themselves to respond to disasters and deal
with cases or trauma amongst their staff.
Services to organizations. The main activities of the project teams will be related to continuous support
and services to involved organizations and businesses. The teams will operate in organizations inviting
them to provide support, and the services will range from psychological debriefing of groups of employees
and crisis interventions to individuals to support to management and involvement in organizational
processes to improve the work environment. The teams will not provide regular therapeutic services to
individuals, but will refer all such requests to the community mental health centers with which they will
cooperate closely.
Implementation. The program will be delivered through an existing NGO or non-profit organization with
related skills/services and operating in the disaster zone. The host organization will be chosen through
normal Bank tendering procedures, by the PIU. The program will be delivered through and at the request of
Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Chambers of Guilds and individual organizations, both public and
private, and in cooperation with relevant authorities. It will be delivered on the premises of the organization
requesting the services.
Expected Outcomes. (i) Establishment of an organization and trained project teams to provide crisis
psychology and organization psychology support to enterprises in the disaster area; (ii) Reduced negative
- 76 -



psychosocial after-effects of the disaster among the work force; (iii) Improved productivity and overall
health among staff in the involved organizations; (iv) Documented effects of intervention strategies at
several levels; (v) Existence of a professional team with specific post-disaster related expertise which can
be used in other locations for short periods.
Time schedule. The project is planned for three years. The first year will be for rapid crisis interventions in
organizations with focus on the psychological impact of the disaster on personnel, establishment of project
office, initial training and development of project methodologies. In the second year the project will shift its
focus towards organizational psychology. In the third year the project results will be documented and
utilized for development of policies, for preparation of plans for extension of the project to other parts of
Turkey, and for publication of the results.
Flow of Funds. All funds will be disbursed by the PIU. Payments of salaries for all local consultants
(clinical staff) will be done directly by the PIU, based on contracts signed between the MOH and the
consultants.
Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring of the project will be accomplished through quarterly narrative
summary of progress and counts of all types of activities and services provided, and through regular visits
by the responsible national and international project partners.
To evaluate the effects of the training programs, the treatment programs and the project in general,
systematic documentation and evaluation studies will be carried out. The project has an in-built evaluation
component, data will be routinely collected and analyzed to document the efficacy of the program. This will
include studies to summarize all results reported by project participants, assessments of short and
long-range mental health outcomes, client satisfaction survey results, written and verbal input from all
professional providers and trainee participants. For the second component which is a pioneering project,
there will be a strong focus on ongoing documentation of its achievements. Systematic evaluation studies
will be carried out in selected organizations to document the impact of the project on the organizations. In
addition, the MEER project evaluation team will look closely at the results of the project both at the mid-
and end points to determine project effectiveness.
An independent evaluation study will be carried out at the end of the program to evaluate final results.
Reporting. Project managers will produce quarterly project progress reports, and six months reviews will
include input from all project partners and consultants. Quarterly reports will be supplied, in English as
well as Turkish, to the MOH, PIU and other international project partners. Annual reports will contain
comprehensive documentation of all activities, for dissemination to supporting organizations, all
participants, the larger professional community, and the general public. The project is expected to produce
a series of publications with regard to project strategies, methodologies, activities and results.
- 77 -



Table 5: Trauma Program Targeted for Adults in the Affected Region
Bank         Government  TOTAL
Financing    Financing     (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million)
Community Mental Health (CMH) Services       3.73         0.55          4.28
Psychological support to organizations and  2.31          0.30          2.61
businesses affected by the earthquake
TOTAL                                       6.04         0.85           6.89
Financing. Some grant financing for this component will be sought from other co-financiers.
Project Component 3 - US$ 293.32 million
Component C: Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu, Yalova and Kocaeli (US$293.32 million)
Objective. The principle objective of this component is to assist the Government of Turkey in
reconstructing permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected by the earthquake.
Damage Overview and Current Situation. The earthquake of August 17 affected the provinces of
Istanbul, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Bolu, Yalova, Bursa and Eskisehir. The population that suffered from direct
damages corresponds to 6 percent of the national population. The earthquake left behind thousands of
homeless, and damaged housing. The number of damaged houses is currently estimated by the official
authorities at 213,843 units.
Damaged Housing Units Provided by the Crises Center as of 10/06/1999
Province /    Damaged Housing Units
Municipality   Heavily     Medium        Lightly       Total
Bolu             3095         4,180         3,303          10,578
Bursa              63          434           940            1,437
Eskisehir           80          96           314              490
Istanbul         3,073       13,339        12,455          28,867
Kocaeli         19,315       21,287        22,452          63,054
Golcuk          12,310        7,789         9,299          29,398
Sakarya         19,043       12,200        18,712          49,955
Yalova           9,462        7,917        12,685          30,064
Total           66,441       67,242       80,160          213,843
As presented in the table above, the most affected provinces are Kocaeli (including the municipalities of
Izmit and Golcuk), Yalova, and Sakarya (including the municipality of Adapazari). The numbers presented
are subject to change due to the objections of inhabitants to the official assessment, and the additional
damages caused by ongoing aftershocks.
While the majority of the structural damage and destruction of buildings was the result of poor
construction, a significant amount of damage was caused by ignoring and/or by lack of awareness of
geological, geotechnical and micro-zoning conditions. The following is a brief description of the areas that
suffered the highest damages.
- 78 -



Izmit city is located on the Eastern end of the Bay of Izmit in the Sea of Marmara. Taking into account the
development along the E-5 highway, the city has become a rapidly growing urban conglomerate that
extends beyond its administrative boundaries. The effects of the earthquake have been felt mostly on the
coastline to the West in district of Cumhuriyet, in the central district of Bekirpasa, and in the Saraybahce
district. Local soil conditions in combination with improper building designs and construction have been the
major cause of damages in this region. Due to the lack of soil strength and the high water table,
reconstruction of these sites would be extremely costly, even if they are found to be suitable from a
technical point of view. Therefore the city authorities as well as independent experts are focusing the
reconstruction efforts on more suitable sites close to the city center.
Golcuk is an urban area located between a narrow strip of hills to the South and the shoreline to the North,
on the South-East coast of the Bay of Izmit. The city has shown a rapid growth of the population in the
recent decades due to increased commercial and industrial activities in the region. The location of the navy
shipbuilding yards and headquarters have been another factor of this development. Approximately 45
percent of North Golcuk has been destroyed during the earthquake. The infrastructure network was heavily
damaged, and part of the coastal areas were sunken into the sea. Only minor damages are reported in the
South of the city. The destroyed sites between the highway and the shoreline cannot be used for
re-construction. This area is either located on top or very close to the main fault line. Based on the
information provided by the local authorities, the city plans to use the earthquake-prone sites for
recreational activities in combination with low-density, low-rise commercial structures. The residential
areas may be developed in the Southern part towards hilly zones where the ground conditions allow
earthquake resistant settlements.
Adapazari is the most affected city in the whole region. Whole districts in the center have totally collapsed
including a once lively commercial zone. The city is built on mainly alluvial deposits subject to liquification
formed by the Sakarya and Mudurnu rivers. The water saturation level of the soil is very high. This kind of
soil has no effective strength to strong earthquakes. Soil conditions were not taken into account during
planning studies with the result that urban growth took place along the North-South axis on the alluvial
plains. It is obvious that further development must be directed towards Northern areas on higher altitudes.
Yalova is a partly commercial and partly recreational resettlement. The industrial zone located on the coast
to the East of the settlement and its strategic location to Istanbul and Bursa have been the major factor
behind a booming commercial activity. The close distance to Istanbul and Bursa has attracted medium and
higher income groups to buy or rent holiday houses which are used mainly during the summer months. The
fault line extends East-West on the coast and towards the city's North-western coast. Haci Mehmet district
on the Western part of the existing settlement has suffered the most damage. This area is being designated
as "construction prohibited zone." Preliminary assessments confirmed that this zone cannot be utilized for
further construction.
Institutional and Legal Framework Institutional arrangements for disaster response are defined in the
Disaster Law No. 7269. At the apex of the Government's mechanism for responding immediately after a
disaster occurs is the Central Coordination Committee for Disaster (Crisis Center), located in the Office of
the Prime Minister and chaired by the Undersecretary for the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
(MPWS). The General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) of MPWS is the Secretariat of the Crisis
Center. Members of the Crisis Center include representatives of the concerned Directorates within the
Ministries with development responsibilities at the local level (Interior, Health, Transportation, Agriculture
and Rural Affairs), other Ministries that may have a post-disaster role (Foreign Affairs, Finance,
Education, Defense, Labor and Social Welfare, Environment) and the Red Crescent Society.
- 79 -



GDDA provides the operational hub for the Crisis Center, gathering information from provincial and local
authorities, interpreting situations and conditions, and identifying specific needs for personnel, equipment,
supplies, material, services and funds to be mobilized through the Crisis Center. These data and
recommendations are reported to the Crisis Center.
The General Directorate of Civil Defense (GDCD) of the Minister of Interior plays an especially important
role in the Government's response to disasters. GDCD has the task of mobilizing personnel and equipment
to the scene to rescue and assist people trapped, threatened, or injured by the disaster. The GDCD has
trained personnel and limited equipment for this purpose, particularly for the case of flood and landslide
disasters, and in many cases mobilizes equipment from other agencies through the Crisis Center to carryout
its tasks. GDCD mobilizes civil rescue troops from areas outside the disaster affected provinces, joins these
teams with provincial civil defense troops, and local urgent aid and rescue teams, according to the
conditions and needs it finds in the disaster area.
The Disaster Law 7269 also defines the assistance that the Government provides to the victims of natural
disasters. Since 1959 and under the provisions of Disaster Law, the Government assumed full
responsibility for natural disasters. The budget allocation for disaster assistance is not sufficient to cover
the operating costs of the GDDA. Allocations for disaster assistance are made on an as needed basis.
Clearly, under the current environment the government will continue to be responsible to provide coverage
for disaster victims, which poses a major threat to the Government budget. Under the Disaster Law 7269,
MPWS is responsible for reconstruction of housing damaged by natural disasters. MPWS can request the
Housing Development Agency (HDA) to assist in the reconstruction process.
Damage Assessment Requirements. Government assessors determine damage for each structure for which
assistance is requested. Units which have collapsed or cannot be repaired are classified as heavily damaged.
Structures which can be repaired for 30%-50% and 5% of their total replacement cost are classified as
medium or lightly damaged, respectively.
Beneficiary Selection Criteria. Parallel to damage assessment and based on the following criteria those
families eligible for assistance according to the Disaster Law 7269 and related regulations are determined
by a committee. The committee consists of one representative each from the city council, MPWS, title
registration office, provincial government and the district official (muhtar). The current Disaster Law has
strict provisions targeting assistance only on the needy families affected by the disaster. To qualify families
must apply for assistance and satisfy the following criteria:
*   Families and married children of families, who are residing in units owned by their parents, are eligible
for disaster assistance
*   Assistance is provided only to the least damaged unit, in case the family within the municipal
boundaries of principal residence owns more then one unit
*   No assistance shall be provided to families who own an undamaged unit within the municipal
boundaries of principal residence
*   Beneficiaries must have full title to the damaged property
In addition to the above, the following criteria are adopted for this project:
* Assistance under this project is limited to collapsed and heavily damaged rural housing and urban multi
family units
* Investments must be implemented under controlled and sound construction practices, and utilize
- 80 -



appropriate cost effective design standards which protect against future seismic risks
* Investments must comply with environmental standards
* Investments likely to be implemented in a timely manner
The resettlement of families in urban areas is voluntary, no resettlement will be required in rural areas. The
beneficiary records have to be filed at the PIU, and presented for Bank's review upon request.
Cost Recovery. There are two elements of cost recovery in this component: (i) repayment of loans to
disaster victims, and (ii) beneficiary contributions. The disaster legislation stipulates that disaster
beneficiaries will repay loans in 20 years, including a 2-year grace period with 0.0% interest. Assuming an
annual inflation at 20%, the cost recovery of the disaster loan is approximately 18.6%. The second cost
recovery element is voluntary beneficiary participation in the cost of construction which is expected to
average US$4,500 or 18.4% of the estimated unit cost of construction of housing in urban areas, and
US$3,000 or 26% beneficiary participation in the rural housing. The composite cost recovery is calculated
at 34.1%. More details of this calculation broken down into rural and urban sub-components are provided
in the Project Implementation Plan.
Progress since Erzincan and TEFER Projects. Although sector reform has been slow, some progress has
been made in this regard, as listed below:
- The earthquake building construction code related to the construction standards under Law 3195 has
been revised. The quality of enforcement needs further attention
e Licensing of contractors and building professions in Turkey must be based on explicit evaluation of
qualifications and experience
3 A campaign to increase public awareness about disaster preparation and safety measures has started. A
substantially increased effort is required with targeted emphasis on development decision-makers
3 Initial training materials for contractors and workers have been prepared and limited training is
ongoing. A substantially expanded effort is necessary to reach contractors throughout the country
3 Amendments to the Disaster Law 3194 and its by-laws for inclusion of a new construction control
system and measures of resistance against disasters are under study
3 Insurance against natural disasters is available and utilized on a voluntary basis throughout the country
at rates that vary between 0.25 to 5.0 per 1,000, depending on the location and type of construction
* HDA now requires that beneficiaries carry such insurance for housing constructed by the agency
Policy reforms to be supported. The Government will introduce the following amendments to the Disaster
Law including:
* the introduction of mandatory catastrophe insurance for all registered residential dwellings
* the establishment of the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP)
* limit to the benefits payable for repair or replacement of uninsured dwellings to an amount not to
exceed 40% of what would have been payable for the first dwelling owned had the property been
insured under the TCIP scheme
* requirement of professional liability insurance and corporate liability insurance for contractors
Additional revisions are required to the Development Law and to the Tender Law.
Urban Housing Re-construction (US$250.82 million). The sub-component will finance technical
assistance, design, supervision, training and investments to replace collapsed or heavily damaged household
units in the urban areas of the provinces of Bolu and Kocaeli. Approximately 10,000 are estimated to be
- 81 -



eligible for reconstruction. The Bank will finance these units on sites to be identified by the Borrower
following the requirements presented below. Construction of these units is planned to start in the next
construction season, as early as March 2000. This will allow adequate time for the necessary detailed site
investigation, client consultations, and design.
About 2,600 units are expected to be provided for the city of Adapazari on an accelerated schedule under a
reallocation of unused funds committed through the TEFER project. This activity should proceed
immediately, independently of the MEER project, through the extension of existing TEFER contracts, thus
enabling the starting of foundation work before the end of the 1999 construction season. Designs will be
based on the TEFER prototypes, with modifications to suit the different climate found in the Mamara
region. Based on the information provided by the Ministry of Public Works the potential sites are currently
identified in the Adapazari province.
Costs will vary depending on topography and location. However, the cost per unit is estimated around
US$20,000 including on-site infrastructure. The cost for off-site infrastructure is expected to be paid by the
municipalities or could be covered under the municipal infrastructure component of the Framework
Program. Total cost of construction of buildings and infrastructure is estimated at US$326.0 million.
Estimated Replacement Cost for Urban Housing Units
Cost (excluding taxes and
Province    Household Units Number  Cost per Unit          beneficiaries contribution)
Basic Housing in US$   Total in million US$
Bolu                 1,000                 20,000                   20.0
Kocaeli              9,000                 20,000                  180.0
Total               10,000                                         200.0
Damage assessment data have been changing throughout project preparation and appraisal. A consequence
of the need to act quickly is an increased risk that the ultimate demand from citizens eligible for a
replacement unit will not match estimates at appraisal. Based on the TEFER experience and the
recommendation of two assessment teams consisting of international and national specialists, the Bank is
proposing to finance about 30 percent of the raw number of collapsed, heavily damaged and medium
damaged units in urban areas defined as uninhabitable units and therefore eligible units under the Disaster
Law. This discounting is expected to allow for second homes included in damage assessments, migration
away from the area, and other distortions and social factors. The Borrower is responsible for providing an
update of the damage assessment and eligibility estimates two weeks prior to the signing of the contracts.
Based on this update, the Bank will review the total number of housing units to be constructed in order to
mitigate the risk of over-investments.
Site Selection. It is the responsibility of the Borrower to designate state or municipal owned land with all
necessary legal requirements in place for residential housing development as potential sites for new
permanent housing construction. Detailed Terms of Reference for the final selection of sites will be
developed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank. The Terms of Reference will address the following
considerations in full:
A. Urban/Regional Planning Considerations
- 82 -



*   New sites are needed for the replacement housing because the previous sites are for the most part
inappropriate for geo-technical reasons (except at higher structural costs), land ownership patterns are
complex, and because of resistance by current populations to return to what are perceived as dangerous
areas. Rebuilding in situ would require scattered construction processes that would significantly
increase the complexity of the construction process and therefore cause delay and raise costs.
*   Construction of permanent housing on the scale of this project constitutes a significant impact on land
use as well as shifts of population and economic activity. To minimize social and economic dislocation
and to improve cost effectiveness, the new sites must meet planning criteria that are suitable for
long-term community building and go beyond the more limited criteria that would apply to strictly"
emergency" housing. These criteria include: (i) proximity to existing infrastructure, social facilities,
transportation and employment opportunies; (ii) appropriateness for the housing standard proposed: the
type of housing to be built is appropriate for lower middle-class families; its future value will be
limited by this typology, and it should therefore be located where potential urbanized land values match
this economic potential in order to avoid future real estate market distortions; (iii) consideration of
existing nearby housing capacity: the Borrower will do the inventory of existing and planned increases
in the housing supply, such as cooperatives that are planned or under construction; site selection will be
made taking this context into consideration; (iv) consideration of existing structural and land-use plans:
selection will address the context of pre-existing land use and environmental planning.
B. Social/Environmental Considerations. Based on the Bank environmental and social requirements, the
Borrower will research local laws and regulations, identify those that apply, and certify that they are taken
fully into account for the proposed sites:
a   Existing population and settlement patterns
:   Existing land use, defacto and regulated, such as protected heritage or natural resource sites
(designated forest lands, etc.)
*   Watershed or conservation areas
* Client consultation
The project will finance a public consultation specialist in order to assist the relevant authorities and
implementing agency to tailor the components design to the social needs of the target population. The
approach of the assistance will incorporate the experiences and lessons learned from the client consultation
process applied under the low-income housing project in Southeastern Turkey. The cost of the consultant
service is estimated at US$150,000.
C. Geo-Technical Investigation. Detailed geo-technical investigations will be carried out for each proposed
site to identify seismic weaknesses and other conditions that would either eliminate the site as a candidate
or require special structural design. Terms of Reference will be drafted by a geo-technical expert familiar
with Turkish conditions. Investigations will be a prior condition for final site selection approval and for the
procurement of design services for particular sites. The investigations will further:
*   identify sites where sub-soil conditions would significantly increase costs due to special structural
requirements
*   recommend suitable structural systems for the specific sites
*   provide preliminary cost estimates for foundation and structural works required by specific
geo-technical conditions and building types (i.e. low rise versus high rise buildings)
- 83 -



D. Infrastructure. The new sites will require full urban infrastructure to local standards as currently
defined by the PIU. In this respect, the following will be considered in site selection:
*   Some off-site infrastructure investment is likely to be inevitable; it should be avoided where possible.
The costs of bringing services to new sites will be calculated as part of the development cost of each
site, and the site suitability will be judged accordingly. The municipalities are expected to finance
off-site infrastructure
*   Off-site infrastructure can be minimized through appropriate site selection, locating new settlements
where possible near existing functioning networks
The desire on the part of some of the earthquake victims to move to higher ground -the slopes adjacent to
Marmara cities are considered to be safer - implies higher infrastructure costs, including water pumping
and reservoirs, as well as more expensive access roads. This preference will therefore be weighed against
costs considerations.
Physical Planning and Building Design. The 10,000 new units that are expected to be required (excluding
the need met by the TEFER reallocation) will be centered in seven urban areas, but will serve the needs of
the broader region where damage occurred. Distribution between the various local jurisdictions will be
defined in consultation with local authorities. At densities of approximately 40-50 units per hectare,
roughly 200 to 250 hectare of new land is required in three to five sites This depends on local and national
governments preferences, availability and site characteristics.
Site Planning
-   Site planning standards will follow HDA practice, but with an eye to improving efficiency through
somewhat higher densities wherever feasible. HDA standards provide for adequate circulation, open
space and spatial organization
*   Social and commercial facilities will be provided where location requires such facilities, following
HDA practice
*   Borrower will propose a method to incorporate beneficiary consultations in site design and the planning
for community facilities
*   Bank will have the right of prior review of site layouts, planning criteria and methods for ensuring
beneficiary consultation in the process
*   Operational framework and cost recovery mechanisms for social/commercial facilities will be proposed
by the Borrower for Bank review
Building Design. As with site design and the planning for community facilities, the Borrower will propose
a method to incorporate beneficiary consultations into the building design process.
For cost as well as anticipated user preferences, building heights will not exceed five stories. This obviates
the need for elevators, simplifies structural requirements, and makes for better social organization within
the settlement. The construction method is expected to be tunnel-forming, which is commonly used in
Turkey, is fast, economical and provides a system of shear walls that ensures excellent resistance to seismic
forces, but limits possibilities for floor plan diversity. Unit size will average 75-80m.
Similar designs were used in Adana and Ceyhan in response to the June, 1998, earthquake (TEFER
project). Under the MEER project, building designs will take into account the cool-damp climate of the
Marmara region by introducing pitched roofs to enable more effective waterproofing and insulation,
- 84 -



enclosed stairways, wall insulation, and double-glazed windows.
As in TEFER, interior finishes will be modest but durable. Beneficiaries will be expected to provide certain
basic equipment such as appliances, kitchen wall cabinets, doors for wall and lower cabinets, water meter,
natural gas meter, electrical meter, hot water boiler and floor finishing. Piping and radiators for space
heating will be provided. These beneficiary purchases will represent contributions that are estimated at
about US$4,500.
The designs will endeavor to introduce a degree of variety in apartment size and in urban design massing in
order to provide for market diversity and esthetic variety that is essential for future economic and social
sustainability. This variety in design will be achieved at a slight increase in cost.
Rural Housing Re-construction (US$22.92 million). The beneficiaries under the supervision of
independent consultants will undertake the construction activities. Construction training will be provided,
through which the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction of seismic
resistant buildings. In addition, standard designs will be provided. No modification will be made to the
standard designs without the approval of the PIU. The supervision will be provided either through the
consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, as appropriate.
The beneficiaries will purchase materials according to the technical specifications provided by the
consultants. No materials are allowed to be used without prior approval by the PIU.
Payments to beneficiaries will be made in increments. The first advance payment will be made to the
beneficiaries only after evidence of clear title to the land is provided by the beneficiaries. The remaining
payments will be made in stages as approved by the PIU. Similar methods were successfully utilized under
the Bank financed Erzincan Earthquake and TEFER projects.
Under this activity, 2,000 household units will be reconstructed in the most affected rural areas in the
provinces of Kocaeli and Yalova. The total cost is estimated at US$22.92 million.
Estimated Construction Costs for Rural Housing Units
Location    Household Units   Cost per Unit           Cost (excluding taxes and
Number                                    beneficiaries contribution)
Basic Housing in US$    Total in million US$
Kocaeli           900                  8,500                     7.7
Yalova           1,100                 8,500                     9.4
Total            2,000                                         17.10
Consultant Services for Design, Site Investigation, Soil Investigations and Supervision (US$20.21
million). Consultant services are required to prepare site plans, soil surveys and site investigations,
architectural and structural design for apartment blocks and supervision of construction during
implementation of the urban housing reconstruction. For the rural housing reconstruction, consultants will
prepare standard designs and provide training, construction management and supervision. This includes
services to affected villages in the provinces of Bolu, Sakarya, Kocaeli, and Yalova. In addition, the
consultants will be responsible for design of standard units, supervise and assure compliance that specified
materials are purchased and used, supervise construction, and approve payments according to progress in
construction. The total cost for consultant services is estimated at US$17.1 million. This includes the cost
- 85 -



of US$150,000 for consultant services in context with the public consultation process.
Costs and Financing. The following table presents the financing scheme for this sub-component.
Table 6: Costs of the Construction of Permanent Housing Sub-component.
Bank         Government  Beneficiaries  TOTAL
Financing    Financing     Financing     (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million) (US$ million)
Urban Housing Reconstruction   200.18                       50.64         250.82
Rural Housing Reconstruction     17.00                       5.29          22.29
Design, Site Investigation and   17.18         3.03                        20.21
Supervision                                I             I _
TOTAL                          234.36          3.03         55.93         293.32
Implementation. For this sub-component, the PIU is the implementing agency, and has the overall
responsibility for all relevant coordination activities. These tasks include preparation of a detailed work
program subject to Bank review and the procurement of civil works, goods and consultant services. The
project implementation has to be done in close co-operation with the relevant local, regional and national
authorities following the requirements defined in the PIP. The PIU will be assisted by consultants in
carrying out technical investigations, studies, and in preparing bidding documents for civil works, goods,
and services (including design, drawings and calculations in accordance with seismic resistant standards,
etc.).
Project Component 4 - US$12.69 million
Component D: Project Management (US$12.69 million)
Project Implementation Unit. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU), established within the Prime
Minister's Office, will have the overall responsibility for the coordination and implementation of the
project. The PIU Director will report to the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, who will oversee its
activities. This location of the PIU will facilitate a close coordination among the Ministries and Agencies
involved in implementing all project components.
The PIU will be responsible for preparing and reviewing the bidding documents and procuring works,
goods and services for the activities implemented under the project. For this purpose, the PIU will contract
a monitoring team consisting of qualified international consultants who will be responsible for providing
support to the procurement actions of the PIU. When a sub-component will be implemented directly by the
PIU, the PIU will have the authority to sign the contracts with the service providers.
The PIU will monitor the financial flows resulting from the realization of contracts, and the implementation
progress of individual activities. To effectively perform this function, the PIU will immediately set up and
maintain a computerized financial monitoring and management system which will comply with Bank
standards. A new integrated accounting software, equipped with budget and cost accounting modules and a
PMR reporting facility, will be purchased under the project. The monitoring and management system will
enable the PIU to timely prepare quarterly progress reports and other necessary documents. The upgraded
financial management system will be evaluated by the independent consultant financed under the project.
- 86 -



In addition to the above, the PIU will undertake all essential activities to provide public information about
the project and reach out to potential beneficiaries in the earthquake zones. For this purpose, the PIU will
hire an External Affairs Officer who will be responsible for providing public information about the MEER
and the currently implemented TEFER projects, and handling all other related external relations tasks. In
addition to enhancing the project outreach,improved external relations management will draw attention to
the GOT's programs and the public perception of its efforts towards the prompt reconstruction and
economic recovery of the affected regions.
To ensure an adequate social assessment and monitoring of the project implementation, and its impacts, the
PIU will hire a social scientist to track the progress of the project's activities from the social autreach
perspective. The PIU social scientist will work closely with the PIU local offices and the NGOs contracted
to provide social monitoring of the project.
The institutional capacity of the PIU will be strengthened with additional over sixty more members (on the
basis of long-term consulting contracts), and training in Bank procedures, with an emphasis on
procurement and financial management procedures. The Bank will review the qualifications of the new
staff and the recruitment will be subject to the Bank's approval.
The PIU will work closely with the government agencies involved in the implementation of the respective
components, pursuant to implementation protocols that will be signed between the Undersecretary of State
and each of the relevant agencies.
Overall, the implementing agencies will (i) provide the TORs, technical specifications, bills of quantities,
etc. for the PIU review; (ii) sign the contracts; (iii) supervise the contractors; (iv) accept final products; (v)
and submit to the PIU confirmation of completion of contractes activities.
The other tasks to be carried out by the PIU include:
*   Prepare or review detailed TORs based on inputs provided by the agencies responsible for given
components
*   Prepare or review bidding documents and contracts for construction of works, goods, and consultancy
services following the procurement guidelines
*   Make direct inquiries and receive proposals for the purposes of the engagement of consultants'
services, construction of works and procurement of goods
*   Evaluate the bids ensuring the involvement in the process of relevant agencies and/or if necessary
consultants
*   Monitor compliance with Turkish and Bank environmental regulations
*   Authorize payments to the contractors
*   Assemble and document all available information concerning the implementation of the various
components of the project
*   Establish the work programs and the implementation schedules for each component, define precisely
responsibilities of each party involved in the project implementation, and produce a project operational
manual
The PIU Director will have the authority of hiring or dismissing the staff of the PIU, subject to the Bank's
approval.
The Steering Committee. The PIU will implement the project under the overall policy guidance of the
Steering Committee. The Steering Committee (SC) will be chaired by the Minister of Public Works and
- 87 -



Settlement (MPWS), and consist of the following government institutions: the State Minister responsible
for the Housing Development Agency, the State Minister responsible for Social Services, the Minister of
Industry and Trade, the Minister of Interior, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, the Undersecretary
of Treasury, the Undersecretary of the State Planning Organization (SPO), the Governors of Istanbul,
Kocaeli, Adapazari, Yalova, Bolu and Mayors of the relevant cities or towns.
The Steering Committee will be responsible for providing advice and policy guidance to the Undersecretary
of the Prime Minister overseeing the PIU. The SC will also review quarterly progress reports prepared by
the PIU and will review and approve possible reallocation proposals prepared by the PIU before submitting
them to the Bank for "no-objection".
Local Offices. In order to streamline and effectively manage implementation of the project, the PIU will
establish at least three Local Offices in the areas most severely affected by the earthquake. The PIU Local
Offices (PIU-LOs) will be set up in Istanbul, Izmit, Yalova, and Adapazari. The exact geographical
coverage of each PIU-LO will be determined by the Undersecretary of State and the PIU, which will take
into consideration the proportion of damage on a given territory.
The main responsibility of the Local Offices will be to close monitor the implementation of the project in
their respective areas and to assist the PIU in the process of procurement. More specifically, the PIU-LOs
will perform the following functions:
*   Assist in the identification of project beneficiaries in their respective areas
*   Provide public information on the project to the local target population
*   Assist the potential eligible beneficiaries in obtaining support from the project
*   Monitor progress in project implementation in the respective areas
*   Facilitate cooperation between consultants, contractors, and local authorities
* Collect available information and data pertaining to project implementation like: investment programs,
detailed studies, including designs, drawings, cost estimates, contracts, environmental perrnits and
clearances
*   Analyze the available documents for sufficiency, and identify possible data gaps and needs for
additional documentation or studies
*   Prepare plans for investment activities in the their respective areas, and submit them to the PIU
-   Review and provide timely feedback and comments on reports prepared by the consultants
*   Provide all necessary guidance to the consultants
*   Ensure that the contracts issued by the PIU are fully implemented
*   Coordinate the project activities being implemented under various components
*   Review all progress reports and invoices prior to submission to the PIU
* Provide the PIU with monthly reports which will also include recommendations concerning
improvements in the project implementation.
Implementation Modalities. While the above institutional arrangement reflects the general framework of
the project management, there are specific modalities for the implementation of individual components. The
specific obligations of the parties involved will be incorporated in the implementation protocols signed with
the individual implementing agencies. The main highlights of the implementation modalities are
summarized below:
A-l. National Emergency Management System. The sub-component will be implemented by the Ministry
of Interior (MOI), based on the implementation agreement signed with the Undersecretary of State. The
main role of the PIU will be to assist the MOI in the procurement procedures. All the contracts will be
- 88 -



signed between the contractor and the MOI.
A-2. Disaster Insurance Scheme. The key project implementation functions and responsibilities will be
carried out by the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP) Board of Directors, and the TCIP
Management Unit established with Milli Re. Besides managing the Catastrophic Insurance Pool, and acting
as a secretariat for the TCIP Board, the TCIP Management Unit will also have the overall responsibility
for implementing this sub-co mponent, and for maintaing relations between the GOT and the Bank. The
PIU will provide all required management and implementation services, including accounting and financial
reporting services for all technical assistance related activities. Moreover, the PIU will assist the TCIP
Management Unit with the procurement of goods and services purchased with Bank funds.
A-3. Land Use Planning and Construction Code Enforcement. The PIU will have overall responsibility
for administrative and financial management of the activities of the sub-component. The municipal studies
will be carried out according to contracts between the PIU and each selected pilot municipality. The
training programs will be designed and conducted by consulting entities contracted for the purpose under
standard World Bank procurement rules. A managerial position will be created within the PIU in order to
allow for better oversight of the implementation of the component. The stakeholders' seminars will be
organized in cooperation and under the leadreship of the MPWS.
A-4. Cadastre Renovation and Land Management. Implementation will be guided by the "MERLIS
Committee" established under the project sub-component. Chairman of this Committee will be the General
Director of Land Registration and Cadastre. Its membership will comprise: representatives of key
municipalities in the Marmara Earthquake Region, representatives of central government agencies involved
in the reconstruction efforts and others upon invitation by the chairman. To implement the activities
proposed under this sub-component, the PIU will enter into implementation protocols with: (i) the General
Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre for the implementation of the activities related to cadastre
renovation and with the General Directorate of State Land to implement activities related to land
management. The PIU will be disbursing funds in accordance with the contracts, and will ascertain that all
transactions follow the Bank procedures for procurement under the MEER.
B-1. Business Rehabilitation. The PIU will enter into individual development contracts with entities eligible
for assistance. The PIU will ascertain adherence to Bank and project specific requirements. The PIU will
hire a team of consultants, two in each PIU local office, and one team leader in the PIU to manage the
sub-component. The resources for any additional technical assistance have been allocated under the budget
of the business rehabilitation sub-component.
B-2. Trauma Program for Adults. The Ministry of Health will be the implementing agency for the
sub-component. To enhance the sub-component participatory implementation process, a coordination
committee will be formed by representatives of the Ministry, involved Universities, hospitals and
associations, staff from the Community Mental Health Centers, and representatives of the involved donor
organizations and their partners. In case of the psychological support to organizations and businesses, the
services will be delivered by an NGO selected through normal Bank tendering procedures.
C-1. Construction of Permanent Housing and C-2. Repair of Existing Housing Stock and Healthcare
Facilities. In case of sub-components C- 1 and C-2, the PIU will be the implementing agency, and have the
overall responsibility for coordination of the relevant activities. The tasks to be undertaken include
preparation of detailed work programs subject to Bank review and the procurement of civil works, goods,
and consultant services. The project implementation will be done in close cooperation with local, regional,
and national authorities.
- 89 -



C-3. Municipal Infrastructure. Each municipality supported under this sub-component will procure works
and goods according to programs reviewed and agreed with the PIU. The PIU will be making the
disbursements from the project account based on the complete documentation submitted by the
municipalities. The documentation will be reviewed and the works performed inspected by the PIU before
payments are authorized. In the case that a municipality does not have the capacity to implement the
sub-component, then the PIU will be responsible for its implementation.
Power Distribution Systems. TEDAS will be the leading implementing agency for the activities related to
power distribution systems rehabilitation and, together with the local distribution companies, will be
preparing all necessary bidding documents assisted by the PIU and local offices of the PIU. The contracts
will be signed by TEDAS. All disbursements will have to obtain the PIU's authorization. Detailed modes of
cooperation will be specified in the implementation protocol to be signed between the PIU and TEDAS.
The organizational chart for the described project implementation structure is in the project implementation
plan.
Costs. The following table shows the breakdown of the project management costs. The figures do not
show the expenses covered under the TEFER loan proceeds (the part of staff salary is covered from the
TEFER project therefore, is not included in the MEER management cost estimations for 1999-2001). Costs
of some of the key staff financed under the TEFER will be carried over into 2002 and covered under the
MEER.
Table 7: Costs of the Project Management Sub-component.
Bank         Government  TOTAL
Financing    Financing     (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million)
Time Staff                                    5.72         1.43         7.15
Equipment                                     0.75        0.14          0.89
Operations                                    1.66        0.41          2.07
Procurement Monitoring                        0.47         0.05         0.52
Training                                      0.58         0.11         0.69
Technical Assistance                          0.59         0.10         0.69
Publicity Campaigns                           0.58         0.10         0.68
TOTAL                                        10.35        2.34         12.69
Customs and Duties. The Bank funds cannot be used to finance local taxes (such as customs duties, sales
tax, income tax, etc.). The import tax due on any Bank-financed goods will be paid by the Government or
the beneficiary.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting. The PIU will be responsible for the design and implementation of the
financial management system for the project as described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The
Bank will provide a support for design and establishment of the system.
The Project and Special account will be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Supervision will be carried out by the Bank team, which will
- 90 -



review implementation of the project approximately on a quarterly basis during the first year. Supervision
missions in the next two years will be conducted two or three times a year as needed, with continuous
advise and support from the Bank Office in Ankara.
The review of the procurement procedures agreed between the Bank and the GOT will be undertaken by an
external monitoring team consisting of international consultants. The monitoring will be conducted
periodically, both ex-ante and ex-post. The Bank will provide the Government with the technical assistance
necessary for setting up this system.
In addition to the work of the social scientist hired by the PIU, a monitoring and evaluation exercise will be
undertaken at mid-term and towards the end of project implementation to identify social aspects of
implementation, as for example the identification of groups that might have been left out from the program
and would need specific outreach.
Additional monitoring activities have been budgeted under components that need periodic reviews. The PIU
will procure those activities in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
Monitoring and evaluation reports will be also shared with other co-financiers.
Remaining Framework Program Components
Project Component 5 - US$109.72 million
Component E: Business Rehabilitation (US$109.72 million)
Component Objectives. The primary objective is to rehabilitate businesses damaged by the earthquake,
with emphasis on small shops and service establishments. In particular, the sub-component aims at (i)
reestablishing the small commerce sector that is an important part of civil society, (ii) creating employment
through the operation of small businesses, (iii) alleviating the conditions of those former shop keepers, who
are now homeless, increasingly dependent on charity and housed in tent cities, and (iv) providing business
opportunities to the most vulnerable, notably women and children who lost the breadwinner in the family.
For the purposes of this project, the business sector has been subdivided into three categories: (i) retail
businesses, i.e. shops and other small business establishments such as bakers, grocers, barbers etc.; (ii)
manufacturing and service enterprises, i.e. businesses with fewer than 10 employees but larger than the
family run shop; and (iii) small and medium size enterprises (SME), businesses with between 10 and 200
employees. The proposed project only deals with the first two categories.
Description of Sector. In Turkey, the category of shops is represented by a multitude of sectoral arts and
craft associations, reminiscent of the Western system of guilds, with local umbrella organizations, called
Birlik, and a national confederation of the Turkish tradesmen and handicrafts (TESK, Turkiye Esnaf ve
Sanatkarlari Konfederasyonu). Four million small businesses are members of TESK, representing a total of
about 20 million people nationwide, which makes TESK one of the most significant professional
organizations in Turkey. By way of illustration of the magnitude and coverage of the sector of small
businesses, Birlik in Adapazari, the capital of Sakarya and one of the cities hardest hit by the earthquake,
has approximately 52,000 registered members in 70 different guilds of whom about 21,000 are active. Both
guilds and their umbrella organizations are governed by a body of law that enables a democratic,
self-governing structure, with compulsory elections of a governing board every three years and the equally
compulsory creation of overseeing committees, including an audit committee.
- 91 -



Retail Business Sector. Concessionary credit to the retail business sector is distributed by Halkbank, a
government owned bank, through credit cooperatives. The government subsidized interest rates effectively
eliminate commercial financing to the retail business sector, as private banks can not compete with a
product that is offered below cost. Total financing made available in 1998 for the credit cooperative system
through Halkbank was TL220 trillion (US$700 million equivalent), corresponding to a fifth of the bank's
credit portfolio. This amount is distributed in more or less equal amounts over the 79 provinces. For
instance, in 1998, the province of Sakarya received a total of TL4 trillion (US$13 million equivalent).
Shops are usually located on the ground floor of residential buildings, and therefore have been seriously
affected by the earthquake.
Service and Manufacturing Enterprises. Service enterprises are in part organized under Birlik, and in
part under the Chambers of Commerce. The difference is in the volume of trade. When a small business
reaches TL9 billion annual turnover (US$20,000 equivalent), the enterprise has to register with the
Chamber of Commerce, whereas all manufacturing enterprises with more than 10 employees are required
by law to become members of the Chamber of Industry. Hence, Chambers of Commerce will have members
whose annual turnover exceeds US$20,000 equivalent, but mostly employ fewer than 10 persons. Many of
these enterprises are service establishments, but there are also small manufacturing enterprises, e.g. those
supplying parts to the automobile industry. The Izmit Chamber of Commerce, covering the entire Kocaeli
Province, has a membership of about 70,000 such businesses.
Construction Cooperatives of Service Enterprises. The small service establishments are mostly located
in small scale industrial sites (SSIS), or are clustered in certain city quarters; few are located on the ground
floor of residential buildings. Service establishments organize themselves into cooperatives with the
purpose of constructing SSISs. Public sector support tends to be limited to granting the site and, in some
instances, to construction credit at concessionary rates. Construction of premises, typically rows of simple
single-story structures with floor areas between 60 and 130 m, are undertaken either with funds from
periodic member contributions or with credit obtained by the cooperative and paid off through periodic
payments from members. Upon completion of construction, any member who has paid up her/his share in
full obtains title to the individual shop, including a proportionate share in the land. Upon expiration of its
term which is specified in the cooperative statute, and which may be as much as 30 years, and full
repayment of the construction credit, the cooperative is converted from a construction cooperative into a
condominium that manages the site, with responsibilities for street cleaning, security and similar common
services. Creation and operation of these cooperatives, and subsequent condominiums, is governed by a
well established body of laws that enables a legally recognized form of self-government and that imposes
operational conditions. The SSISs can range from as few as 50 to well over 1,000 members. The Korfez
SSIS located on the outskirts of Izmit has 1,100 units housing manufacturing and service related
enterprises. Due to financial limitations, obtaining a site and creating the infrastructure and premises
apparently involves a lengthy process often lasting ten years or more. This is in part because construction
progress depends on periodic member contributions, and because site acquisition and obtaining building
and other permits can be very time consuming. Because of the problems inherent in developing a SSIS,
successful ones create capital gains for their members through appreciation of the equity invested. Shares
in the earlier mentioned Korfez SSIS representing the location for a service establishment, had risen, prior
to the earthquake, to about 3 times the actual construction cost of the premises, and were quoted by SSIS
management at DM 52,000 equivalent.
Damages. Damage assessments of businesses are being undertaken by the Chambers of Industry and
Commerce, as well as by municipalities, banks and insurance companies. The Chambers are vested with
- 92 -



the responsibility for official damage assessments as laid down in the Disaster Law. Damage assessment
commissions have been established under the authority of that law and with compositions cleared by the
provincial governors. It is expected that only the damages assessed and recorded by these commissions, and
verified by the local tax office, will be eligible for governmental assistance.
As of September 24, all of these commissions were still in the process of completing their portfolios, none
had been finished. Damage assessments briefly discussed below are those made as part of project
preparation for the damage to residential complexes and hence to shops, and in addition are based on
extrapolations of what was contained in the portfolios of the pertinent assessment commissions in the core
provinces of the earthquake zone, Kocaeli, Sakarya and Yalova for all businesses larger than shops. Details
of all these assessments are in the project files.
The numerically most important damage to businesses has been inflicted on what here is called the retail
business sector, since most of its establishments are located on the ground floor of apartment blocks in
residential areas. Thus, the scale of damage to these small enterprises is mirrored in the scale of damage to
the housing stock. The combined damage in Bolu, Yalova, Kocaeli, Bursa and Sakarya is estimated at a
total of almost 11,000 shops completely destroyed, another 9,700 that have suffered medium damage, and a
further 9,300 shops slightly damaged. Overall, the number of shops destroyed is about 16% of the number
of housing units destroyed. The number of damaged shops is about 13% of the number of damaged housing
units, both figures confirming the density of shops in urban residential areas.
In addition, account should be taken of businesses that do not have a fixed business location and premises,
such as taxis and street vendors. In Golcuk, the epicenter of the earthquake, Birlik had about 12,000
members prior to the earthquake, among those there were about 2,500 taxi and small transport operators
and some 2,000 street vendors.
A high proportion of the damaged businesses is within the food sector including bakers, butchers, fresh
fruit and vegetable sellers and general grocery stores. Most carried inventories ranging from between a few
hundred dollars US equivalent to US$15,000. Where small businesses have been totally destroyed
indications are that average total loss of assets is around US$6,000 equivalent, when businesses with small
or negligible trading inventories, such as taxis and street vendors are taken into account. About 80% of this
total was trading inventory, part of which was under suppliers' credit. Few businesses register the loss of
premises since most premises were rented.
In summary, I 1,000 shops are estimated to have been destroyed completely, representing a replacement
cost of US$66 million equivalent, of which about US$50 million equivalent is trading inventory. Further
substantial losses incurred by medium and lightly damaged shops will have to be added. Since inventories
in even slightly damaged shops may have been lost completely, and inventories are estimated at 80% of the
total loss of destroyed shops, it is likely that the total business loss of the small shop sector exceeds
substantially the US$66 million equivalent estimated here for destroyed shops alone, and indeed could well
exceed US$100 million equivalent.
By September 20, the Izmit Chamber of Commerce, the main interest association for the service type
establishment, had received about 2,200 requests for damage assessments from its approximately 70,000
members, and had already conducted 630 assessments. By the same date, the Yalova chamber of
Commerce and Industry had received 218 requests for damage assessment of similar sized businesses.
These and other data indicate that the damage sustained by the service sector of businesses is, absolutely
and relative to the sector, much smaller than the damage sustained by shops. Service establishments that
were located on SSISs have survived the quake largely unscathed, since their single-story premises have
- 93 -



withstood the damaging shocks of the tremors. Most of the damaged service businesses were among the
minority that was located in rented premises on the ground floor of residential buildings.
From the sample of 630 assessments made by the lzmit Chamber for the Kocaeli region, it appears that
over 40% of damages sustained, in monetary terms, were suffered by enterprises in the hotel, restaurant
and cafe businesses, about 10% by each of the subsectors of household goods and building materials and
about 13% by true service establishments in the traditional sense. The average total loss of individual
businesses was about US$30,000 equivalent, of which about 80% represented lost inventory. There is at
present insufficient information to make an estimate of total losses suffered by this segment of business.
However, early indications are that it is unlikely to be less, in absolute terms than the damage suffered by
the shop sector, although in terms of sheer numbers the damage is much more modest than that of the shop
sector.
Activities to be Undertaken. A total of three activities will be financed under the project, all but
one following established patterns of credit flows and using existing entities and structures in the
Turkish business community. These activities are:
Support to construction cooperatives of small shop-keepers and owners of service establishments
(US$48.24 million). Although most shops are located on the ground floor of residential buildings, there are
certain cities, notably Adapazari where "pasajes," i.e. groups of shops in the style of contemporary malls
mostly located on the ground floor of larger office complexes, are popular. Mayors of several of the
stricken cities and townships have asked for assistance for reestablishing the commercial heart of their
cities by building malls of individual small shops. The project will provide credit financing to construction
cooperatives of small shop owners to realize such ventures. Once built and the credit paid off, individual
shop-keepers would become owners of the premises. The owners will then create a condominium that will
manage common interests, such as maintenance, cleaning and security.
The majority of the so-called service establishments are located in SSISs, on the outskirts of cities. It is
proposed to extend credit support to new or existing construction cooperatives of owners of service
establishments similar to the support provided to shop owners.
Financing to construction cooperatives will be extended as credits to the associations, that in turn will
finance their members' share in the construction with long term credit. Ten percent of the repayment will be
retained by the cooperative to cover its operating costs, the remainder will be transfer to Treasury once a
year.
Support to credit cooperatives for asset replacement (US$55.94 million). Together with premises,
funding for working capital is a crucial factor towards rehabilitating lost shops. Funding would go towards
(i) paying off outstanding debt to suppliers for goods delivered before the earthquake and lost together with
the premises, (ii) financing a new starting inventory, part of which will be obtained with new suppliers'
credit, and (iii) the first month rental of new premises. It is expected that part of these findings, not
exceeding 20%, will be spent on re-equipping shops with such durable goods as a cash register,
refrigerator, display cabinets and the like.
The credit cooperatives will be established in a legally valid form, acceptable to the Bank. Membership will
be limited to former and current shop owners who have documentary evidence of losses as a result of the
earthquake. Members of the credit cooperatives will be eligible for assistance from the project's resources
in the form of grants of up to 50% of the total amount requested, and the rest in the form of one year credits
with three months grace, and equal monthly repayments thereafter at an interest rate on outstanding
- 94 -



balances equal to the rate on one year Treasury Bonds at the date of credit initiation. Credits will be
available only for twelve months after effectiveness of the project, in recognition of the emergency nature of
the operation. Repayments will flow into a "small business asset financing fund" established by the credit
cooperative. The credit cooperative will retain 20% of repayments, i.e. 10% of the total original financing
to cover its operational costs and to constitute a revolving fund for its members. The remainder will be
tranferred to Treasury once a year. This revolving fund will be used for subsequent credits at terms equal
to those of the original funding, and for one year after effectiveness of the project. Thereafter, this fund will
extend credits to the members of the cooperative at terms that include an interest rate equal to the earlier
mentioned benchmark rate of one year Treasury Bonds.
Integration with Other Public Support. The Government has announced a grant support program for
small businesses damaged by the earthquakes, through the Social Solidarity Fund. Under this reported
program, graduated assistance will be extended from the equivalent of approximately US$400 for
moderately damaged businesses to about US$1,000 for fully destroyed businesses. In addition, government
has announced a support program for small enterprises in the form of concessionary credits through the
Halkbank system of lending to the small business sector. Eligibility criteria under the here proposed
program will explicitly take account of these other support programs, both pertaining to the "asset
replacement sub-component". Support received from the Social Solidarity Fund will be subtracted from the
grant element under the proposed "asset replacement" funding, while credits received under the Halkbank
supported program will be subtracted from the credit part of the program. These provisions will be part of
the eligibility criteria for individual beneficiaries under the program.
Support to provincial unions of guilds (US$5.54 million). Institutional support is proposed for the civil
structures that represent the interest groups of small businesses, guilds and unions, that have suffered
extensively through the loss of premises, equipment and, unfortunately, staff. It is proposed to extend
long-term credits for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of premises, and grant financing for the
development of a system of disaster preparedness, and for a public relations campaign connected with the
entire program herein proposed.
Financing for reconstruction and rehabilitation of premises of provincial unions of guilds will be extended
to these entities under the same terms and conditions as the proposed financing for construction
cooperatives. Repayments of the credits will flow into the "small business construction fund."
Costs and Financing Conditions. A summary of the costs for the proposed activities is shown in the table
4 below. The expected costs of financing construction cooperatives for shops is based on average
construction costs of US$200 equivalent per m2, a unit size of 30 m,2 and an expected demand from 20
cooperatives for an average of 200 shops. The expected demand for financing construction cooperatives
among service establishments is for a combined total of 500 individual units, each with 130 m and with an
average construction cost of US$100 per m . It is expected that a total of 6,000 shop owners will avail
themselves of an average of US$6,000 of financing for asset replacement, both inventory and equipment.
Damage assessments have shown that, on average, 80% of asset loss is in inventory, the remainder in
equipment. The cost of support for reconstructing and rehabilitating the premises of the organizational
infrastructure of the guilds' system is based on the reported construction cost of the fully destroyed Birlik
building in Adapazari.
Table 8: Costs of the Business Rehabilitation Component.
- 95 -



European         Beneficiaries      TOTAL
Investment Bank Financing           (US$ million)
Financing        (US$ million)
(US$ million)
Support to construction cooperatives of small   38.60             9.64               48.24
shop-keepers and owners of service establishments
Support to credit cooperatives for asset replacement   44.75      11.19              55.94
Support to provincial unions of guilds          4.43              1. 11              5.54
|TOTAL                                           87.78            21.94              109.72
Expected Output. The expected output is the physical reconstruction of at least 4,000 shops and 500
service establishments, and the rehabilitation and restart of at least 6,000 small businesses. In addition, a
contribution will be made to rehabilitating the organizational infrastructure of small businesses through (i)
the reconstruction of at least one lost building for the provincial union of small business guilds, and the
rehabilitation of at least three damaged buildings, (ii) replacement of lost equipment for at least 3 provincial
unions, and (iii) technical assistance to rehabilitate human resources and strengthen disaster response
capabilities of the organizations in all affected provinces.
Implementation. The PIU will enter into individual contracts with entities eligible for assistance under the
project. Eligible entities will be construction and credit cooperatives of business owners struck by the
earthquake, and the provincial unions of small business guilds. Details of membership of the cooperatives,
legal structure and starting equity, that will assure eligibility under the project, are in the Project
Implementation Plan. In essence, only those cooperatives that have affected business owners among their
members are eligible. The individual contracts signed between the PIU and these entities will contain
measurable performance characteristics against which gradual disbursement of funds will be made. Failure
to honor the terms of the contract, including such aspects as cooperative membership, construction details
and contracting procedures, transparency of operations and accounting for funds spent, will be ground for
immediate cancellation of the contract.
The PIU will be equipped with sufficient and pertinent technical capability to exercise the substantial, labor
intensive, oversight role entailed in the proposed implementation methodology. It is expected that
competitively selected NGOs will undertake much of the executory responsibilities of implementation and
supervision of the execution of the contracts between the PIU and individual entities. In essence, the PIU
will ascertain adherence to Bank requirements, while it will delegate most, if not all, of day-to-day
operational matters to the NGOs.
Identification Methodology of Sub-projects. All proposed activities under the business rehabilitation
component are demand driven. Requests for support, i.e. requests for contracts with the PIU, will have to
follow the guidelines as contained in the PIP. These guidelines assure that the project will deal only with
bonafide entities of substance, that eligibility criteria are adhered to and that sub-projects for whom these
matters are pertinent, follow design and construction criteria acceptable to the Bank in general and under
the MEER project in particular. The latter is with special reference to earthquake resistance and
survivability of structures and inhabitants. The project contains a sub-component, budgeted at
US$500,000, to assure widespread knowledge of the availability of the support described and of the
conditions for eligibility. This is expected to assure quickly and effectively the grassroots demand upon
which the entire component is based.
Beneficiary Eligibility. Potentially eligible construction cooperatives will have to be legally valid and will
- 96 -



have to be registered with the pertinent authorities. Membership of these cooperatives is limited to current
and former business owners who have documentary evidence of earthquake induced losses and who belong
to an organization under the "TESK" umbrella. Moreover, the cooperative must own the land upon which it
intends to build, or must have a documented agreement with the owner of the land with whom it wishes to
establish a joint venture. The latter is specifically relevant to those construction cooperatives who would
like to occupy part of a larger new development, for instance the ground floor of a commercial office
building to be erected as part of the earthquake reconstruction. Finally, all members of the cooperative will
have to make an initial, irrevocable, "good will" cash contribution of at least the equivalent of US$100 in
the case of small shop construction cooperatives and of at least the equivalent of US$500 in the case of
service establishments.
Potentially eligible credit cooperatives will have to be legally valid and will have to be registered as such
with the pertinent authorities. Membership of these cooperatives is limited to former and current business
owners who have documentary evidence of earthquake induced losses, and who belong to an organization
under the "TESK" umbrella. All members of the cooperative will have to make an initial, irrevocable,
"good will" cash contribution of at least the equivalent of US$100.
Finally, all entities to be supported, as well as 90% of their membership, will have to be domiciled in the
earthquake zone as defined by government.
Financing. This component will be financed by other co-financiers.
Project Component 6 - US$177.07 million
Component F: Construction of Permanent Housing in Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu,
Sakarya, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa, and Eskisehir (US$177.07 million)
Objective. The principle objective of this component is to assist the Government of Turkey in
reconstructing permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected by the earthquake.
Damage Assessment Requirements. Government assessors determine damage for each structure for which
assistance is requested. Units which have collapsed or cannot be repaired are classified as heavily damaged.
Structures which can be repaired for 30%-50% and 5% of their total replacement cost are classified as
medium or lightly damaged, respectively.
Beneficiary Selection Criteria. Parallel to damage assessment and based on the following criteria those
families eligible for assistance according to the Disaster Law 7269 and related regulations are determined
by a committee. The committee consists of one representative each from the city council, MPWS, title
registration office, provincial government and the district official (muhtar). The current Disaster Law has
strict provisions targeting assistance only on the needy families affected by the disaster. To qualify families
must apply for assistance and satisfy the following criteria:
*   Families and married children of families, who are residing in units owned by their parents, are eligible
for disaster assistance
*   Assistance is provided only to the least damaged unit, in case the family within the municipal
boundaries of principal residence owns more then one unit
*   No assistance shall be provided to families who own an undamaged unit within the municipal
boundaries of principal residence
*   Beneficiaries must have full title to the damaged property
- 97 -



In addition to the above, the following criteria are adopted for this project:
*   Assistance under this project is limited to collapsed and heavily damaged rural housing and urban multi
family units
*   Investments must be implemented under controlled and sound construction practices, and utilize
appropriate cost effective design standards which protect against future seismic risks
*   Investments must comply with environmental standards
*   Investments likely to be implemented in a timely manner
The resettlement of families in urban areas is voluntary, no resettlement will be required in rural areas. The
beneficiary records have to be filed at the PIU, and presented for Bank's review upon request.
Cost Recovery. There are two elements of cost recovery in this component: (i) repayment of loans to
disaster victims, and (ii) beneficiary contributions. The disaster legislation stipulates that disaster
beneficiaries will repay loans in 20 years, including a 2-year grace period with 0.0% interest. Assuming an
annual inflation at 20%, the cost recovery of the disaster loan is approximately 18.6%. The second cost
recovery element is voluntary beneficiary participation in the cost of construction which is expected to
average US$4,500 or 18.4% of the estimated unit cost of construction of housing in urban areas, and
US$3,000 or 26% beneficiary participation in the rural housing. The composite cost recovery is calculated
at 34.1%. More details of this calculation broken down into rural and urban sub-components are provided
in the Project Implementation Plan.
Progress since Erzincan and TEFER Projects. Although sector reform has been slow, some progress has
been made in this regard, as listed below:
*   The earthquake building construction code related to the construction standards under Law 3195 has
been revised. The quality of enforcement needs further attention
*   Licensing of contractors and building professions in Turkey must be based on explicit evaluation of
qualifications and experience
*   A campaign to increase public awareness about disaster preparation and safety measures has started. A
substantially increased effort is required with targeted emphasis on development decision-makers
*   Initial training materials for contractors and workers have been prepared and limited training is
ongoing. A substantially expanded effort is necessary to reach contractors throughout the country
*   Amendments to the Disaster Law 3194 and its by-laws for inclusion of a new construction control
system and measures of resistance against disasters are under study
*   Insurance against natural disasters is available and utilized on a voluntary basis throughout the country
at rates that vary between 0.25 to 5.0 per 1,000, depending on the location and type of construction
*   HDA now requires that beneficiaries carry such insurance for housing constructed by the agency
Policy reforms to be supported. The Government will introduce the following amendments to the Disaster
Law including:
*   the introduction of mandatory catastrophe insurance for all registered residential dwellings
*   the establishment of the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool (TCIP)
*   limit to the benefits payable for repair or replacement of uninsured dwellings to an amount not to
exceed 40% of what would have been payable for the first dwelling owned had the property been
insured under the TCIP scheme
*   requirement of professional liability insurance and corporate liability insurance for contractors
- 98 -



Additional revisions are required to the Development Law and to the Tender Law.
Urban Housing Re-construction (US$156.85 million). The component will finance technical assistance,
design, supervision, training and investments to replace collapsed or heavily damaged household units in
the urban areas of the provinces of Bolu, Sakarya, Kocaeli, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa, and Eskisehir.
Approximately 60,900 units were destroyed or heavily damaged in these provinces, of which about 16,300
are estimated to be eligible for reconstruction. The Bank and other co-financiers will finance these units on
sites to be identified by the Borrower following the requirements presented below. Construction of these
units is planned to start in the next construction season, as early as March 2000. This will allow adequate
time for the necessary detailed site investigation, client consultations, and design.
Costs will vary depending on topography and location. However, the cost per unit is estimated around
US$20,000 including on-site infrastructure. The cost for off-site infrastructure is expected to be paid by the
municipalities, or could be covered under the municipal infrastructure component of the Framework Program.
Total cost of construction of buildings and infrastructure is estimated at US$326.0 million.
Estimated Replacement Cost for Urban Housing Units
Province    Household Units   Cost per Unit         Cost (excluding taxes
Number                                 and beneficiaries
contribution)
Basic Housing in US$  Total in million US$
Sakarya          4,400              20,000                   88.0
Yalova            1,200             20,000                   24.0
Istanbul           650              20,000                   13.0
Bursa               20              20,000                    0.4
Eskisehir           30              20,000                    0.6
Total            6,300                                      126.0
Damage assessment data have been changing throughout project preparation and appraisal. A consequence
of the need to act quickly is an increased risk that the ultimate demand from citizens eligible for a
replacement unit will not match estimates at appraisal. Based on the TEFER experience and the
recommendation of two assessment teams consisting of international and national specialists, the Bank is
proposing to finance about 30 percent of the raw number of collapsed, heavily damaged and medium
damaged units in urban areas - defined as uninhabitable units and therefore eligible units under the
Disaster Law. This discounting is expected to allow for second homes included in damage assessments,
migration away from the area, and other distortions and social factors. The Borrower is responsible for
providing an update of the damage assessment and eligibility estimates two weeks prior to the signing of the
contracts. Based on this update, the Bank will review the total number of housing units to be constructed in
order to mitigate the risk of over-investments.
Site Selection. It is the responsibility of the Borrower to designate state or municipal owned land with all
necessary legal requirements in place for residential housing development as potential sites for new
permanent housing construction. Detailed Terms of Reference for the final selection of sites will be
developed by the Borrower and approved by the Bank. The Terms of Reference will address the following
considerations in full:
- 99 -



A. Urban/Regional Planning Considerations
*   New sites are needed for the replacement housing because the previous sites are for the most part
inappropriate for geo-technical reasons (except at higher structural costs), land ownership patterns are
complex, and because of resistance by current populations to return to what are perceived as dangerous
areas. Rebuilding in situ would require scattered construction processes that would significantly
increase the complexity of the construction process and therefore cause delay and raise costs.
*   Construction of permanent housing on the scale of this project constitutes a significant impact on land
use as well as shifts of population and economic activity. To minimize social and economic dislocation
and to improve cost effectiveness, the new sites must meet planning criteria that are suitable for
long-term community building and go beyond the more limited criteria that would apply to strictly"
emergency" housing. These criteria include: (i) proximity to existing infrastructure, social facilities,
transportation and employment opportunies; (ii) appropriateness for the housing standard proposed: the
type of housing to be built is appropriate for lower middle-class families; its future value will be
limited by this typology, and it should therefore be located where potential urbanized land values match
this economic potential in order to avoid future real estate market distortions; (iii) consideration of
existing nearby housing capacity: the Borrower will do the inventory of existing and planned increases
in the housing supply, such as cooperatives that are planned or under construction; site selection will be
made taking this context into consideration; (iv) consideration of existing structural and land-use plans:
selection will address the context of pre-existing land use and environmental planning.
B. Social/Environmental Considerations. Based on the Bank environmental and social requirements, the
Borrower will research local laws and regulations, identify those that apply, and certify that they are taken
fully into account for the proposed sites:
?   Existing population and settlement patterns
*   Existing land use, defacto and regulated, such as protected heritage or natural resource sites
(designated forest lands, etc.)
*   Watershed or conservation areas
-   Client consultation
The project will finance a public consultation specialist in order to assist the relevant authorities and
implementing agency to tailor the components design to the social needs of the target population. The
approach of the assistance will incorporate the experiences and lessons learned from the client consultation
process applied under the low-income housing project in Southeastern Turkey. The cost of the consultant
service is estimated at US$150,000.
C. Geo-Technical Investigation. Detailed geo-technical investigations will be carried out for each proposed
site to identify seismic weaknesses and other conditions that would either eliminate the site as a candidate
or require special structural design. Terms of Reference will be drafted by a geo-technical expert familiar
with Turkish conditions. Investigations will be a prior condition for final site selection approval and for the
procurement of design services for particular sites. The investigations will further:
*   identify sites where sub-soil conditions would significantly increase costs due to special structural
requirements
*   recommend suitable structural systems for the specific sites
*   provide preliminary cost estimates for foundation and structural works required by specific
- 100-



geo-technical conditions and building types (i.e. low rise versus high rise buildings)
D. Infrastructure. The new sites will require full urban infrastructure to local standards as currently
defined by the PIU. In this respect, the following will be considered in site selection:
*   Some off-site infrastructure investment is likely to be inevitable; it should be avoided where possible.
The costs of bringing services to new sites will be calculated as part of the development cost of each
site, and the site suitability will be judged accordingly. The municipalities are expected to finance
off-site infrastructure
*   Off-site infrastructure can be minimized through appropriate site selection, locating new settlements
where possible near existing functioning networks
The desire on the part of some of the earthquake victims to move to higher ground - the slopes adjacent to
Marmara cities are considered to be safer -implies higher infrastructure costs, including water pumping
and reservoirs, as well as more expensive access roads. This preference will therefore be weighed against
costs considerations.
Physical Planning and Building Design. The 6,300 new units financed under this component (excluding
the need met by the TEFER reallocation) will be centered in five urban areas, but will serve the needs of the
broader region where damage occurred. Distribution between the various local jurisdictions will be defined
in consultation with local authorities. At densities of 40-50 units per hectare, roughly 130 to 150 hectare of new
land is required in approximately five to six sites. This depends on local and national governments preferences,
availability and site characteristics.
Site Planning
*   Site planning standards will follow HDA practice, but with an eye to improving efficiency through
somewhat higher densities wherever feasible. HDA standards provide for adequate circulation, open
space and spatial organization
*   Social and commercial facilities will be provided where location requires such facilities, following
HDA practice
3   Borrower will propose a method to incorporate beneficiary consultations in site design and the planning
for community facilities
_   Bank will have the right of prior review of site layouts, planning criteria and methods for ensuring
beneficiary consultation in the process
* Operational framework and cost recovery mechanisms for social/commercial facilities will be proposed
by the Borrower for Bank review
Building Design. As with site design and the planning for community facilities, the Borrower will propose
a method to incorporate beneficiary consultations into the building design process.
For cost as well as anticipated user preferences, building heights will not exceed five stories. This obviates
the need for elevators, simplifies structural requirements, and makes for better social organization within
the settlement. The construction method is expected to be tunnel-forming, which is commonly used in
Turkey, is fast, economical and provides a system of shear walls that ensures excellent resistance to seismic
forces, but limits possibilities for floor plan diversity. Unit size will average 75-80m.
Similar designs were used in Adana and Ceyhan in response to the June, 1998, earthquake (TEFER
- 101 -



project). Under the MEER project, building designs will take into account the cool-damp climate of the
Marmara region by introducing pitched roofs to enable more effective waterproofing and insulation.
enclosed stairways, wall insulation, and double-glazed windows.
As in TEFER, interior finishes will be modest but durable. Beneficiaries will be expected to provide certain
basic equipment such as appliances, kitchen wall cabinets, doors for wall and lower cabinets, water meter,
natural gas meter, electrical meter, hot water boiler and floor finishing. Piping and radiators for space
heating will be provided. These beneficiary purchases will represent contributions that are estimated at
about US$4,500.
The designs will endeavor to introduce a degree of variety in apartment size and in urban design massing in
order to provide for market diversity and esthetic variety that is essential for future economic and social
sustainability. This variety in design will be achieved at a slight increase in cost.
Rural Housing Re-construction (US$20.22 million). The beneficiaries under the supervision of
independent consultants will undertake the construction activities. Construction training will be provided,
through which the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction of seismic
resistant buildings. In addition, standard designs will be provided. No modification will be made to the
standard designs without the approval of the PIU. The supervision will be provided either through the
consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, as appropriate.
The beneficiaries will purchase materials according to the technical specifications provided by the
consultants. No materials are allowed to be used without prior approval by the PIU.
Payments to beneficiaries will be made in increments. The first advance payment will be made to the
beneficiaries only after evidence of clear title to the land is provided by the beneficiaries. The remaining
payments will be made in stages as approved by the PIU. Similar methods were successfully utilized under
the Bank financed Erzincan Earthquake and TEFER projects.
Under this activity, 2,000 household units will be reconstructed in the most affected rural areas in the provinces of
Bolu, and Sakarya. The total cost is estimated at US$20.22 million including beneficiary contribution.
Estimated Construction Costs for Rural Housing Units
Location        Household Units      Cost per Unit        Cost (excluding taxes and
Number                                    beneficiaries contribution)
Basic Housing in US$  Total in million US$
Bolu                    900               8,500                        7.7
Sakarya               1,100               8,500                       9.4
Total                 2,000                                         17.10
Costs and Financing. The following table presents the financing scheme for this component.
Table 9: Costs of the Construction of Permanent Housing component.
Other Co-finaciers  Beneficiaries    TOTAL
Financing          Financing         (US$ million)
(USS million)      (US$ million)
Urban Housing Reconstruction      125.96            30.89               156.85
- 102 -



Rural Housing Reconstruction     17.00             3.22               20.22
Design, Site Investigation and
Supervision
TOTAL                           142.96            34.11              177.07
Implementation. For this component, the PIU is the implementing agency, and has the overall
responsibility for all relevant coordination activities. These tasks include preparation of a detailed work
program subject to Bank review and the procurement of civil works, goods and consultant services. The
project implementation has to be done in close co-operation with the relevant local, regional and national
authorities following the requirements defined in the PIP. The PIU will be assisted by consultants in
carrying out technical investigations, studies, and in preparing bidding documents for civil works, goods,
and services (including design, drawings and calculations in accordance with seismic resistant standards,
etc.).
Project Component 7 - US$632.12 million
Component G: Repair of the Existing Housing Stock and Health Facilities (US$632.12 million)
Objective. The principal aim of this component is to provide assistance to the GOT in repairing existing
housing stock and healthcare facilities damaged during the earthquake.
Repair of Medium Damaged Housing Units (US$610.50 million). Damage to the housing stock was
particularly devastating. Over 67,00 housing units were heavily damaged, forcing an estimated 200,000
people to find emergency shelter. It can be anticipated that the numbers of damages will rise if the series of
aftershocks does not stop. Due to the high risk of building collapse, it is extremely risky for the families to
move back to these buildings. This component will finance the structural repair of about 54,500 medium
damaged housing units, which represents about 90% of the damaged units, including the design and the
supervision of the repair works. In this case the eligibility approach cannot be applied. It is not possible to
repair only one unit in multistory building, hence the number of units that will be covered under the
component. Due to the characteristics of structural damages the repair work has to cover the whole
building. Under the Bank financed Erzincan Earthquake Rehabilitation project, a similarly designed
component was successfully implemented.
The estimated cost of this component is expected to be financed by international donors and the
Government. Because of the uncertainty of the financial arrangements, the costs are currently presented as
Government contribution.
Estimated Repair Cost for Urban Housing Units
Province         Household Units      Estimated Cost per  Cost (excluding
Number               Unit                taxes)
Structural Repair    Total
in US$             in million of US$
Bolu                      3,972             9,000                 35.7
Sakarya                  10,980             9,000                 98.8
Kocaeli                  25,875             9,000                232.9
Yalova                    3,563             9,000                 32.1
-103 -



Sub-total                 44,390                                    399.5
Zonguldak                     86              9,000                   0.8
Istanbul                   9,667              9,000                  87.0
Bursa                        416              9,000                   3.7
Eskisehir                     42              9,000                   0.4
Sub-total                 10,211                                     91.9
Total                     54,602                                    491.4
The structural rehabilitation component covers the repair of buildings in rural and urban areas which are
assessed as medium damaged by inspection teams of the Ministry of Public Works. Only structures which
can be repaired to earthquake-resistant standards with costs up to 50 percent of its total replacement costs
are eligible under this component. Based on this definition 45 percent of the replacement cost is used as an
average number for the estimated rehabilitation cost per housing unit.
The classification undertaken by the inspection teams has to be re-assessed for each unit. The rehabilitation
work financed under this project is limited to buildings which are re-assessed by the consultants as medium
damage and approved by the PIU technical experts. Only structural rehabilitation work and outside
painting are eligible for finance. Lightly damaged buildings are excluded.
Consultant Services are required for the inspection and assessment of damages including visual and
structural testing. In addition, the service is required for preparation of designs, technical specification,
bidding documents, and supervision of structural rehabilitation works. The cost for consultant service
which is financed by the Bank is estimated at US$70.0 million. This amount corresponds to 14 percent of
the total rehabilitation cost.
Repair of Hospitals and Healthcare Facilities (US$21.62 million). The social insurance program (SSK)
operates several hospitals, polyclinics, and dispensaries in the earthquake zone, which come under the
general supervision of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MLSS), not the Ministry of Health. The
MLSS estimates that 60 percent of the workers covered by SSK in the earthquake zone used exclusively
the SSK hospitals. If reconstruction efforts ignored the SSK hospitals, a significant portion of earthquake
zone residents would be bereft of their regular health services and emergency care. It is therefore imperative
that the damaged SSK health facilities be included in the MEER reconstruction efforts.
Technical personnel of the Social Security Institution General Directorate initially carried out structural
damage assessment of the buildings. The cost estimate and reports were reviewed by experts from the
Technical University of Istanbul. The request for including the rehabilitation work in the MEER project
was addressed to the Bank's team on short notice. Therefore the team was not in position to review the
investments in details and inspect the damage. However, based on brief desk review of the material
provided, the estimated cost at US$18.9 million appears reasonable. Consultants services of US$1.8
million are included in the cost estimate. During project implementation each investment has to be carefully
assessed by the PIU and its consultants against the eligibility criteria presented below (after the
implementation section). Only structural and mechanical repair of hospitals and healthcare facility damaged by
the earthquake are eligible for financing. The damage to the following hospitals and healthcare facilities will
be considered under this component.
Estimated rehabilitation costs of the health care facilities (excluding taxes)
- 104 -



Repair of hospitals and healthcare facilities  Estmated cost
Adapazari Hospital                                     3.00
Adapazari Regional Directorate                         0.78
Adapazari Employee Housing                             0.44
lzmit Merkez clinic and dispensary                     0.56
lzmit Hospital                                         2.78
lzmit Sopali Hospital                                  3.44
lzmit Social Security Directorate                      1.44
Karamursel Hospital                                    1.89
Istanbul, Duzce, Bolu, Bozoyuk Hospitals               2.78
Consultant fees                                        1.80
Total                                                  18.91
Costs and Financing. The following table presents the financing scheme for this component.
Table 10: Costs of the Repair of the Existing Housing Stock and Health Facilities component.
Government  Beneficiaries  TOTAL
Financing    Financing     (IJS$ million)
(US$ million)* (US$
million)**
Repair of Medium Damaged         557.65        52.85         610.50
Housing Units (including
consultants' services for design)
Repair of Hospitals and Healthcare    21.62                   21.62
Facilities
TOTAL                            579.27        52.85         632.12
* The Government is in the process of finalizing an agreement with other international financial institutions
and foreign governments for financing of this component.
"**Assuming about 10% beneficiaries' contribution.
Implementation. For this component, the PIU is the foreseen as implementing agency, and has the overall
responsibility for all relevant coordination activities. These tasks include preparation of a detailed work
program subject to Bank review and the procurement of civil works, goods and consultant services. The
project implementation has to be done in close co-operation with the relevant local, regional and national
authorities following the requirements defined in the PIP. The PIU will be assisted by consultants in
carrying out technical investigations, studies, and in preparing bidding documents for civil works, goods,
and services (including design, drawings and calculations in accordance with seismic resistant standards,
etc.).
Project Component 8 - US$139.73 million
Component H: Municipal Infrastructure (US$139.73 million equivalent)
Objectives. The objective of the component is to restore essential infrastructure in the municipalities that
- 105 -



have been devastated by the August 17, 1999 earthquake.
Activities to be Undertaken. The component includes technical assistance, design, supervision and
investments to restore essential infrastructure at the municipal level. It finances repairs and reconstruction
to water supply systems, sewerage and storm water systems, wastewater treatment plants, and municipal
roads and bridges in Izmit, Golcuk, Adapazari, Golyaka, and Cilimli, the most damaged municipalities
affected by the August 17, 1999 earthquake. Minor damages to infrastructure as well as damages that have
already been repaired by the related authorities are not covered under this operation.
The distribution of electricity in the municipalities affected by the earthquake is conducted by four power
distribution companies: BEDAS (Bogazici Elektrik Dagitim A.S., which covers the European part of
Istanbul province), KEDAS (Korfez Elektrik Dagitim A.S., which covers Kocaeli province), SEDAS
(Sakarya Elektrik Dagitim A.S., which covers Sakarya and Bolu provinces), and YEDM (Yalova Elektrik
Dagitim Muessesesi, which covers the Yalova area).
Specific investments were identified by representatives of municipal and provincial governments in the
project provinces as having the highest priority based on regional and local needs. Technical and cost data
for each investment have been reviewed and analyzed by international and national experts working with
municipal, provincial and national officials, the PIU, and the Bank team. In addition, the consultants
determined the assistance needed by the municipalities for procurement, design, construction, supervision,
geological surveys and related services.
Municipal Wastewater and Water Supply Systems. The major need for repair and reconstruction was
identified in the provinces of Kocaeli, Sakarya and Bolu. These are the most affected areas by the
earthquake.
There is an uncertainty regarding the damage assessment of the water and sewerage system. The reason is
that the water consumption decreased considerably, since the inhabitants were forced to leave their
permanent housing, and the water supply was turned down in some areas due to damaged water network.
Thus, not all damages and leakages in the water and sewerage systems could be detected in the short period
after the earthquake.
Kocaeli Province. In the municipality of Izmit all damages to the water supply system and sewerage
system are currently repaired. Funding is needed for the repair of the wastewater treatment plant. Due to
mechanical and structural damages the plant is currently not in operation and sewage is directly discharged
into the sea without further treatment. The estimated investment is US$0.5Million. Consultant services of
US$100,000 for the design and supervision of the repair work are included in this component.
The earthquake heavily damaged the water and wastewater system in Golcuk. In the Northern part of the
city, the damage was caused by landslides. This area of the city is used for recreation purposes. Therefore,
no major investment is identified for this location. In the Southern part of the city below highway E- 130, 20
km of water supply network and 20 km of wastewater system need to be reconstructed. In addition, about 5
km of sewerage is heavily damaged in Ihsaniye and Degirmendere which are very close to Golcuk. In total
the reconstruction costs is estimated at US$4.15 million.
Sakarya Province. The reconstruction program for Adapazari will include repair and reconstruction of
water and sewerage systems covering an area of about 900 ha. The total cost is estimated at
US$33 .5Million. The investments includes the rehabilitation of 200 km of water network including pipe
installation, construction of pumping stations, construction of reservoirs, construction of valve chamber,
- 106 -



fire hydrants, construction of discharge chamber, etc. In addition, 150 km of wastewater network will be
repaired and reconstructed.
Bolu Province. In Golyaka, the repair and reconstruction of 10 km of water supply and 10 km of
wastewater network including consultant services for design and supervision are required. The estimated
investment in water supply is US$0.4Million and US$1.OMillion for wastewater.
Municipal Roads and Bridges. In Adapazari, a total of 50 km of roads and about 150,000 m of
sidewalks need to be repaired or reconstructed. Mainly the roads in the plain areas were heavily damaged.
It is reported that the ground water table at the plain is so high that it rises to the road level. Damage is
caused to the roads and pavement because the underlying soil collapsed. The resulting settlement in the
ground caused several cracks. The municipal roads are dominated by asphalt pavement, and the width
varies between 7 and 10 meters. The investment cost for repair and reconstruction is estimated at US$20.0
million. This includes demolishing existing roads and sidewalks, repair work, new road base, new road
asphalting, sidewalk construction and transportation.
The main road damage in Golcuk is concentrate at the sea shore. As a result of ground movement whole
parts of the roads disappeared into the sea. A total investment of US$10.0 million is identified to repair and
reconstruct 20 km of municipal roads and 100,000 m of sidewalks. In addition, repair and reconstruction
of approximately 10 km of roads and 24,000 m' of sidewalks is required in Golyaka (Bolu Province). The
investment cost are estimated at US$2.5 million.
Engineering Designs and Supervision. Consulting services including engineering designs, site surveys,
preparation of tender documents and construction supervision will be financed under this component. This
will also include the assessment of potential impact of the above works on the human and physical
environment, consistent with Bank environmental and social assessment procedures. The estimated amount
is US$4.7 million.
Power Distribution Systems. The heaviest damages in power distribution systems occurred in the low
voltage (LV) distribution network which supplies individual consumers at 0.4 kV level. About 600 medium
voltage to low voltage (MV/LV) distribution transformers were destroyed and about 450 MV/LV
transformers sustained large damages which cannot be repaired at the site. About 1,500 km of LV overhead
distribution lines were cut mainly due to the collapse of about 8,200 poles. Damages to underground cables
affected about 35 percent of existing MV cable network and about 50 percent of LV cable network in
densely populated urban areas.
The ongoing reconstruction of power distribution facilities is focused on the restoration of electricity supply
to the household consumers and construction of temporary distribution networks in "tent villages" which
shelter most of the population that lost their homes. These efforts, as well as the waiver of electricity
payment granted by the Government to the most affected consumers, has resulted in a relatively fast
recovery of electricity demand that reached the pre-earthquake level in BEDAS and SEDAS and about 70
percent of the pre-earthquake level in KEDAS and YEDM by October 1, 1999. The reconstruction of
municipalities, however, will require a significant additional investments in the power distribution facilities
because the temporarily built or provisionally repaired power distribution facilities cannot provide a
reliable power supply to the consumers. Furthermore, the relocation of household and industrial consumers
in accordance with the new urban plans will require the construction of new power distribution systems in
certain areas such as Adapazari and Izmit.
- 107 -



This component will finance the following four activities:
(a)    Rehabilitation of BEDAS Distribution System (US$18.9 million). The rehabilitation of power
distribution facilities in Istanbul is focused on the replacement of about 400 km of MV cables and about
350 km of LV cables that were damaged in the earthquake. The rehabilitation program also includes the
replacement of 16 MV/MV transformers and about 60 MV/LV transformers. About 600 km of LV
overhead lines will be rewired and about 10 cable test vehicles will be procured to facilitate the repair and
maintenance of cable network.
(b)    Rehabilitation of KEDAS Distribution System (US$5.6 million). The rehabilitation of power
distribution facilities in Kocaeli province will include the supply and installation of power distribution
equipment in eleven municipalities and construction of two 35 kV overhead lines in Kandira and Golcuk
with a total length of about 50 km. The rehabilitation of eleven municipal power distribution systems will
include the replacement of about 120 MV/LV transformers, 50 km of MV distribution lines and 80 km of
LV distribution lines.
(c)    Rehabilitation of SEDAS Distribution System (US$9.9 million). The rehabilitation of power
distribution facilities in Sakarya and Bolu provinces will include the supply of about 300 MV/LV
transformers, 200 km of MV cables and 300 km of LV cables. Other equipment to be replaced in the
SEDAS power distribution system includes about 200 MV circuit breakers, 350 MV disconnect switches,
500 distribution panels, and 300 MV current transformers. A Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
System (SCADA) will be supplied and installed in the SEDAS dispatch center.
(d)    Rehabilitation of YEDM Distribution System (US$2.6 million). The rehabilitation of power
distribution facilities in Yalova will include the supply and installation of power distribution equipment in
four transformer substations, refurbishment of 5 MV overhead lines, one MV cable line and associated LV
network.
Consultants will be employed for the damage assessment, the design and supervision of construction works.
As a result of this assessment, the total investment cost will be reviewed and the procurement plan will be
amended accordingly before implemetation.
Costs and Financing. The municipalities will benefit from investments for a total amount of US$13 l9.73
million. Summary cost estimate for the municipal infrastructure component is presented in the table below.
Table 11: Costs of the Municipal Infrastructure component.
Co-financiers Government  TOTAL
Financing    Financing     (US$ million)
(US$ million) (US$ million)
Municipal Infrastructure                    87.88          15.18       103.06
Power Distribution Networks                 30.04           6.63        36.67
TOTAL                                      117.92          21.81       139.73
Implementation. The main implementing agencies for investments in water supply systems, wastewater
networks and municipal roads are the targeted municipalities under the overall responsibility of the PIU.
Each municipality will procure works, goods, and equipment according to work programs to be reviewed
and approved by the PIU. The PIU will be supported by consultants, who will carry out and prepare all the
- 108 -



technical investigations, studies, and bidding documents required for implementing the project. In the case
that a municipality does not have the capacity to implement the component, then the PIU will be
responsible for its implementation.
In the case of the power distribution networks, TEDAS is responsible for implementation. By November 1,
1999, TEDAS will establish a permanent and adequately staffed Project Task Force (PTF) under the
direction of an Assistant General Manager to coordinate all project-related activities. Each of the four
distribution companies included in the project will establish a local PTF under the direction of General
Manager to oversee the preparation and implementation of the project and conduct the technical and
administrative functions under the project. One of the main responsibilities of local PTF offices in Istanbul
(BEDAS), Izmit (KEDAS), Adapazari (SEDAS) and Yalova (YEDM) will be the preparation of technical
specifications for bidding documents required under the project. The preparation of complete bidding
documents in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines will be done by PTF in cooperation with
the PIU. A protocol will be signed between the PIU and TEDAS specifying a division of responsibilities
and modes of cooperation between the PIU and TEDAS PTF, as well as between local PIU offices and
local PTF offices.
Eligibility criteria. The following criteria have been used for selecting investments to be financed under
this component:
*  the investments are in the communities located within the nine provinces affected by the earthquake
o  the investments are for repairing or constructing infrastructure that has been damaged by the
earthquake and/or construction of new infrastructure in the new housing areas
*  the investments have been identified as priority projects by the local communities, and the decision has
been reviewed by a multidisplinary team of national and international experts, the PIU, and the Bank
team
*  the investments are for sub-projects that prevent health risks to the community
o  the investments are of economic importance to the community (i.e. transport, essential municipal
services)
*  the investments are of social and environmental importance
*  the investments have no alternative source of funding
*  the investments are implemented in accordance with controlled and sound construction practices, and
utilize appropriate designs which protect   against seismic risks
*  the investments comply with sound financial, technical and environmental standards
*  the investments are likely to be implemented in a timely manner
*  the investments have cost-effective design standards
Flow of Funds. The PIU will handle all disbursements. The municipalities will submit complete
documentation of project expenditures to the PIU. The PIU will authorize payments from the project
account after reviewing the works performed by the implementing agencies and authorizing payments from
the project account.
Financing. The municipal infrastructure component will be financed by other co-financiers.
- 109 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
.Sub-component Al: National Emergency Management Syst.  _42.5            44.79 __ 87.29
Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance Scheme                  200.6        72.4        273
iSub-component A3: Land Use Planning and Enforcement of        5.25          5       10.25
Construction Codes
Sub-component A4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management     10.55      10.55       21.1
Component B: Trauma Program for Adults                         3.92       2.07       5.99
Component C: Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu,     221.21       40.21     261.42
Kocaeli and Yalova
.Corpp q -PrD_or.jectMana-qe m____                            10.38        0.51      10.89
Total Baseline Project Cost                      __         494.41      175.53     669.94
Component E: Business Rehabilitation                          66.13         22      88.13
Sub-component F: Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu,  123.38       20.6     143.98
Sakarya, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa, Eskisehir
Component G: Repair of Existing Housing Stock and Healthcare  456.13     80.49     536.62
Facilities
Sub-component H: Rebuilding and Repair of Roads, Water       65.74       61.42     127.16
supply Systems, Wastewater Systems, Power Distribution
Netvurks   ___    ____                                               ___
Total Baseline Cost                                         1205.79     360.04    1565.83
Physical Contingencies                                     107.67       32.85     140.52
Price Contingencies                                         74.52        9.83      84.35
Total Program Costs    1387.98    402.72      1790.7
Front-end fee                 5.05        5.05
Total Financing Required  1387.98     407.77    1795.75
- 110-



Goods                                                      16.86      68.42      85.28
Technical Assistance and _T__... ___.. 151.09   _66.59  _217.68
Business Loans                                             82.32      26.75     109.07
Supply and Install                                          1.78      10.03      11.81
Insurance Funds                                              200         50        250
Recurrent Costs          ____                               5.92       0.31       6.23
Total Program Costs                                      1387.98     402.72     1790.7
Front-end fee                                                          5.05       5.05
Total Financing Required                                 1387.98     407.77    1795.75
- 111 -



Annex 4
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
The economic and financial analysis is not required in accordance with OP 8.50.
- 112 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Total Financing Required
e.Project Costsl.                                  .I
Investment' 'Costs   | 667.4    719.51   342.3        30.41   '30.4        01
.  Recurrent Costs               0       0.9      0.9       0o        0        01
Total Program Costs        667.4    720.4    343.2      30.4J    30.4        01
Front-end fee                  5        0        0         0        0        0
Total Financing            672.4    720.4    343.2      30.4t    30.4
Financing
IBRD/IDA                266.5      200      37.7      0.4      0.4        ol
Govemment                214.7    258.1    251.6       301      30        0
Co-financiers            136.5    174.7     31.3        Q        0        0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   54.7     87.6     22.6        01       0        04
Total Program Financing    672.4    720.4    343.2      30.41    30.4        0|
Financial Summary for the Framework Program.
-113 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works financed by the World Bank and other co-finaciers will be done in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting
Services, technical assistance and training financed by the Bank and other co-financiers will be procured in
accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents,
Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. Goods, works and technical
assistance to be financed by the co-financiers will be procured in accordance with the regulations and
practices of each co-financier.
Procurement responsibilities
In order to ensure smooth project implementation the, Project Implementation Unit in Ankara will have
overall responsibility of supervising, assisting and coordinating procurement for the entire project. As
already approved by the Board of the Bank, the PIU will also provide guidance to the other implementing
agencies responsible for the emergency components of their respective projects. For this purpose, the PIU's
capacity will be strengthened. The PIU has acquired long experience in dealing with Bank-financed
procurement. This PIU has implemented the Erzincan Earthquake Reconstruction Project and has
demonstrated its capacity and capability in the ongoing successful implementation, including procurement,
under TEFER. It has one director, two deputy directors, 6 team leaders, 13 junior engineers, one financial
administrator, and a part time legal adviser. The teams work directly with implementation agencies in
project areas and have demonstrated their effectiveness in the implementation of procurement under
TEFER. The Director of the PIU has substantial experience in handling procurement in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines. The PIU will coordinate procurement activities through local implementation
units which will be established by the implementation agencies. These units shall need staff familiar with
the World Bank procurement procedures. In order to ensure smooth and timely implementation of MEER,
the PIU's capacity will be strengthened through the provision of additional staff and equipment. A plan for
strengthening the capacity, and time period for it, both at the PIU and implementation agencies will be
agreed during negotiations. The PIU estimates that additional staff of about 53 persons will be needed for
the implementation of MEER.
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 114-



Table A:
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                             24.7       0.00     1.94   243.01
2. Goods                             11.3       .OC      7.70   127.00
_  1076  _   O o       6.30   113.9
3. Services                            0.00     0.00    57.45    57.45
Consultant Services and Training     .00)   (000   (50.82)  (50.82)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00     0.00    13.44    13.44
ODerating Costs                      (0.00)   (0.00)  (11.83)  I11.83
5. Front-end fee                       0.00     0.00     5.05     5.05
( 0)   ( )   (5.05) _.(5 05
6. Construction Materials              0.00     0.00    19.55    19.55
(0 oQ!   ( !  (17.44A  (17.44)
7. Claims Financing (Insurance)        0.00     0.00   100.00   100.00
(10.00)   (O.-OQ) . {89.20)  (89.20)
Total                             360.37     0.00   205.13   565.50
_ _ _ _             L_2(32262)   (0D0) (182.37  (505.00'
-115-



Program Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million ecquivalent)
1. Works                                          241.07         0.00         1.94      906.51    1149.52
(215.03)       ( )      (1.73)       ( )   (216.76)
2. Goods                                          119.30          0.00        7.70       49.12       176.12
(107.60)       (0.00)      (6.30)       (0.00)  (113.90)
3. Services                                          0.00         0.00       57.45       95.87      153.32
Consultant Services and Training                   (0.00'       (0.00)    (50.82)        (0.00)    (50.82)
4. Miscellaneous                                     0.00         0.00       13.44         9.20       22.64
Operating Costs                                    (0.00)       (0.00)    (11.83)        (0.00)    (11.83)
5. Front-end fee                                     0.00         0.00        5.05         0.00        5.05
(0.00)      (0.00)      (5.05)       (0.00)       (5.05)
6. Construction Materials                            0.00         0.00       19.55       19.55        39.10
(0.00)      (0.00)    (17.44)        (0.00)    (17.44)
7. Claims Financing (Insurance)                      0.00        0.00      100.00       150.00      250.00
(0.00)      (0.00)1   (89.20)        (0. 00,    (89.20).
Total                                          360.37         0.00      205.13   1230.25   1795.75
(322.63)       (0.00)1 (182.37)         (0.00'  (505.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-
lending project funds to local government units.
Note: Figures may not match due to rounding. NBF = Non bank Financed
Works-lCB: Includes ICB contracts for works (US$215.03 million)
Works- Other: Includes Minor Works contracts (US$1.73 million)
Goods and Technical services-lCB: includes ICB contracts for goods (US$87.39 million) and for technical services (US$20.21 million)
Goods - Other: Includes NS contracts (US$5.60 million) and IS contracts (US$0.70 million). Lists of items under NS and IS contracts will
be subiect to Bank's prior review and approval.
Consulting Services -Other: includes QCBS contracts (US$45.62 million), CQ contracts (US$0.35 million), Sole source contracts
(US$0.31 million), Individuals contracts (US$0.27 million), traininq (US$1.52 million), and service delivery contracts (US$2.75 million)
Construction materails - Other - includes contracts for construction materials (US$17.44 million). These contracts ($8,500 each) will be
procured by eligible homeowners through their traditional purchasing practices (i.e., comparison of prices from different shops). The same
cost control mechanisms as aDDlied under the TEFER will be aDDlicable under this Droiect as well.
Incremental Operating Costs (US$11.83), including the PIU staff, rent, utilities, office expenses, vehicles operation, communications, etc.)
to be incurred in accordance with an annual budget which wvill be prepared by the PIU and submifted to the Bank for review and approval.
- 116-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                   Selection   Method
I Services
Expenditure     QCBS       QBS       SFB        LCS       CQ        Cther   Total Cosit
Category
A. Firms           51.78      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.40       4.97      57.15
(45.62)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)     (4.58)    (50.55)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.30      0.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.27)    (0.27)
Total  51.78      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.40       5.27      57.45
L                  (45.62)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)     (4.85)    (50.82)
Consultant   c                               Setection   Method
Services
Expenditure     QCBS       QBS       SFB        LCS       Co        Other     N.M F.  Total Cost'
Cat,gory                   ' 
A. Firms           51.78      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.40       4.97      96.09     153.24
(45.62)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)    (4.58)    (0.00)    (50.55)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.30      0.00       0.30
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.27)    (0.00)    (0.27)
Total  51.78      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.40       5.27      96.09     153.54
l_______________  (45.62)    (0.00)    (0.00)     (0.00)    (0.35)     (4.85)    (0.00)    (50.82)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Disaster Insurance Scheme (Sub-component A2). This sub-component will comprise the establishment of a
disaster insurance scheme in the form of a Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool. The funds will be used for
establishing a national catastrophic insurance mechanism providing for catastrophic risk transfer and risk
management, which will result in reduced government financial liabilities and better financial protection of
Turkish policy holders against natural disasters similar to the Marmara earthquake. This sub-component
includes the procurement of an asset management firm; a reinsurance intermediary who will be selected
through QCBS; a reinsurance contract which will be procured through ICB; and disbursements against
insurance claims to finance the replacement of destroyed residential properties.
Business Rehabilitation (Sub-component B 1. This demand driven component will provide support to the
affected private sector businesses and business associations in the disaster areas. It includes support to
business community through construction cooperatives for the rehabilitation and construction of small
businesses, premises for services, etc; it will provide financial support through credit coops to businesses
for working capital for inventory purposes, replacement of the damaged equipment and for providing basic
- 117-



business training. The PIU will collaborate with the construction cooperatives and will be responsible for
the bidding process and for supervision of construction. Since the coops do not themselves have the
necessary capacity, they will engage the services of qualified architects to prepare designs and drawings
which will be reviewed and upon acceptance used in the preparation of bidding documents.
For this component, procurement needs have been identified to the maximum extent possible and included
in the procurement plan on an indicative basis. It is envisaged that procurement of works under this
component will be conducted through NCB for contracts estimated to cost less than US$5 million each
(US$21.350 million in the aggregate), and the procedure applicable to small works will be used for
contracts estimated to cost less than US$0.5 million each (aggregate amount US$11.650 million). National
Shopping will be used for equipment contracts estimated below US$0.250 million (aggregate amount:
US$1 million); for the purchase of equipment estimated at less than US$10,000 the beneficiaries may apply
the commercial purchasing practices which are based on informal comparison of prices and obtaining the
best value and performance. Based upon the indicative plan, each beneficiary will develop a detailed
procurement plan which will adhere to the eligibility criteria and the agreed procurement procedures and
will be approved by the PIU and cleared by the Bank before implementation.
The following procurement methods will be applicable to goods, works and services under the other
components:
Goods
ICB. For contracts each estimated to cost US$1 million or more, simplified ICB procedures will be used. A
General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business in November 1999
announcing ICB procurement packages including pre-qualification, if necessary, and consultant services
inviting interested eligible suppliers, contractors and consulting firms to send their expression of interest to
the PIU in Turkey. The GPN will also be published in the local press. The GPN will be followed by
specific advertisements for individual ICB contracts in the local press which will also be sent to suppliers
who will respond to the GPN. GPN will be updated each year.
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Most recent bidding documents approved by.the Bank for use in
TEFER for each method of procurement of Goods, Works and Consulting Services will be used after
Bank's review. The period allowed for submission of bids may be reduced to four weeks. At the discretion
of the Borrower, currency of bid and payment may be limited to two currencies (USD and EURO) widely
used in international trade to simplify the bidding and bid evaluation and thus reduce procurement
processing time.
International Shopping (IS). IS will be used for procuring goods (including equipment, vehicles, materials,
commodities, etc.) of standard specifications available off-the-shelf and each contract estimated to cost
US$250,000 or more but less than US$1 million. IS requires comparison of price quotation obtained from
at least three suppliers from two countries. The list of firms will be prepared by giving first consideration to
those who have expressed interest in response to the press publications (e.g. GPN, local press). In order to
obtain minimum three quotations, efforts would be made to request more than three firms to take into
account the possibility that some of them may not submit quotations. Request for quotations may be sent
and quotations obtained by fax/telex.
National Shopping tNS). This method will be used for contracts for goods available off-the-shelf in Turkey
and each contract estimated cost less than US$250,000 by obtaining at least three quotations. Preparation
of list of firms to be invited and request for quotations will follow the same principle as in the case of IS
-118 -



except that all firms could be domestic suppliers.
Works
ICB. Procedures for advertising and use of bidding documents will be as described in the case of [CB
Goods. ICB procedure for works will be used for contracts each estimated to cost US$5 million or more.
(a)    Pre-qualification For ICB contracts estimated to cost $10 million or more or for any complex
work, pre-qualification of contractors may be carried out, if requested by the Borrower. In deciding
pre-qualification, it should be kept in view that there will be more time spent in the procurement process
and as such post qualification may be preferred. For pre-qualification purpose, notice will be published in
the local press for each contract. Such notices will also be published in the Development Business of the
United Nations. One notice may include more than one package but the pre-qualification criteria for each
contract or combination of contracts should be specified in the invitation and in the PQ document. Not less
than 30 days should be allowed for pre-qualification response time. Contractors will also be requested to
express their interest for pre-qualification in the GPN. The PQ evaluation and list of firms pre-qualified
will also be cleared with the Bank before bids are invited. Bidding documents will be issued to pre-qualified
firms.
(b)    Post-qualification: For all contracts not subject to pre-qualification, proper post qualification
criteria will be specified in the bidding documents and contracts awarded only to bidders that meet the
specified criteria.
NCB will be used for contracts each estimated to cost US$0.5 million or more but less than US$5 million.
However, interested foreign contractors will be allowed to participate in NCB. Not less than three to four
weeks will be allowed to submit bids depending upon the nature and size of procurement. Appropriate post
qualification criteria will be specified in the bidding documents if pre-qualification is not used. No bids will
be rejected based on pre-determined bracketing (cut-off above and below the engineer's estimates). Awards
will be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder based on bid evaluation criteria specified in the
bidding documents and no new criteria will be adopted.
Procurement of Small Works. The bidding document cleared by the Bank for small works in TEFER
Project will be used for works contracts each estimated to cost equal or less than US$0.5 million. These
works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price or unit rate contracts awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from at least three qualified local contractors in response to local advertisement. In
order to obtain a minimum of three quotations, more than three firms shall be requested to take into
consideration any possibility that some firms may not submit a quotation. All firms that are interested and
are deemed qualified shall be allowed to participate. The bidding document shall include a detailed
description of works, including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of
agreement consistent with the standard document cleared by the Bank and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Purchase of construction materials. Construction materials for rebuilding of damaged rural houses,
estimated to cost up to US$8,500 equivalent for each housing unit and not to exceed US$17.44 in the
aggregate shall be procured competitively from local sources following traditional local purchasing
practices applicable to such purchases. The cost control mechanism that have been successfully applied for
the purchase of construction materials and their use in reconstruction of rural houses will also be applied in
this project.
- 119-



Consulting Services. Consultants will be procured in accordance with the Bank Guidelines which shall
include both competition and sole sourcing (in accordance with paragraph 3.8 to 3.1 l of the Guidelines).
The sole sourcing packages will be identified and justified in the procurement plan for each project. Direct
contracting during project implementation will need Bank's prior approval. Urgent studies required for the
selection of construction sites and preparation of construction designs and for soil investigations estimated
to cost less than US$50,000 each may be procured under Sole Source procedure with Bank's prior
agreement. For this purpose the PIU shall establish a list of qualified and experienced firms and wvill select
the firms as needed. Consultants for such studies estimated to cost less than US$100,000 shall be procured
through Consultants' Qualifications.
Procurement Support under Emergency Projects. Including TEFER. MEER and Other Projects with
Emergency Components. Given the flexibility in procurement due to the emergency situation (i.e., very high
thresholds for different procurement methods), under TEFER, MEER and several other projects which
have been modified to respond to the emergency situation created by the recent earthquake, it is strongly
recommended that the PIU shall employ qualified international consultants who will provide procurement
support in reviewing the procurement actions of different project implementation agencies responsible for
implementing Bank-financed emergency projects in order to ensure that the procurement arrangements
agreed between the Bank and the Government of Turkey are being adhered to. The consultant could
undertake the supporting activities in accordance with a schedule and could be authorized to conduct both
ex-ante and ex-post. The Bank can provide the Government the necessary technical assistance in
establishing the proposed system.
Post Review Ratio. One in five contracts
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                        >5000                    ICB                     219.77
> 500                   NCB                        0.00
< 500                    MW                        0.00
2. Goods                        >1000                    ICB                     68.04
> 250                     IS
< 250                    NS
3. Services                     < 100                QCBS/CQ/SS                  45.95
< 50                     Ind                     10.05
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  343.81
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 120 -



Review Thresholds for Goods and Works. All contracts for Goods estimated to cost US$1
million or more under ICB procedure, all contracts for works estimated to cost US$5
million or more under ICB and the first NCB contract for works will be subject to Bank
prior review. Contracts not covered by Bank's prior review will be pre-reviewed by the
PIU and post reviewed on selective basis by the Bank.
Review Threshold for Consulting Contracts. Procurement documentation for consultant
contracts procured competitively and each estimated to cost US$0.1 million or more with
firms and US$50,000 or more with individuals, and all sole source contracts will be
subject to Bank's prior review. Follow up assignments will be permissible to the extent
that this will be indicated in initial TORs and the initial assignment was through a
competitive selection method. Contracts below the above amounts will be subject to
selective post review.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 121 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Works (a) under sub-component C1 for       180.16                         90%
reconstruction of urban housing
Works (b) under sub-components Al, A4,     30.06                 100% (exclusive of taxes)
B2, and C I for reconstruction of rural
housing
Goods                                      48.00         100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 85% of
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Consultants' services and training         74.08                          100%
Reinsurance premiums                       19.70                          100%
National Catastrophic Insurance Program    100.00        100% of Eligible Claims up to the equivalent
under sub-component A2                                   of US$17 million for the first 18 months and
40% thereafter, in either case up to the
attachment point of the excess of loss
reinsurance cover specified in the Risk
Management Plan, and 100% of Eligible
Claims in excess of the reinsurance cover
specified in the Risk Management Plan
Incremental operating costs                 6.60                          90%
Unallocated                                41.35
Total Project Costs                        499.95
Front-end fee       5.05
iTotal                            1        505.00
The loan will be disbursed over a period of five years, because of the need to create enough
liquidity for the Turkish Catastrophic Insurance Pool under the Disaster Insurance Scheme
(sub-component A2). All other components are expected to disburse over a period of three
years in accordance with the nature of an emergency project. Disbursements will be made
against eligible project expenditures for goods, including technical services, works and
consultants' services. As shown in Table C, goods will be financed at 100% for imported
(foreign) items, 100% for those from ex-factory sources, and at 85% for locally purchased
items. Civil works will be financed at 90%, and consultants'services at 100% (excluding
taxes), operating cost will be financed 90%.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements against contracts below the following thresholds will be made against
Statement of Expenditures:
US$5.0 million for civil works
US$1.0 million for goods
US$100,000 for consulting firms contracts
- 122 -



US$50,000 for individual consultants contracts
For these expenditures under SOE, detailed supporting documents evidencing payments to
contractors and suppliers will be kept at the PIU. These documents would be made
available for the required audits as well as to the Bank supervision missions upon request.
All other expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be submitted on the basis of full
documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in
its Central Bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make an Authorized
Allocation of US$50 million. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be
submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever
occurs earlier. The replenishment application would be supported by the necessary
documentation, the SA bank statement, and a reconciliation of this bank statement. All
documentation evidencing these expenditures would be retained by the Project
Implementation Unit and would be reviewed by the external auditors and visiting Bank
supervision missions. The SA would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank.
trsectid( 19             ($7.77) (USmil      ($173
Goods and Civil  ICB         NCB        IS       NS         Minor     Other      Percentage of
Works                                                       Works    methods   loan amount
subject to
prior review
Procurement     W>5.00       W<5.00   G<1.00   G<0.25    W<0.50
thresholds:     ($219.77)               ($7.77)  ($17.2e2)  ($1.73)
Individual and    G>1.00
aggregate      ($68.04)
Prior Review    ($219.77)                                                        $287.81
($68.04)                                                         57%
Consultants     QCBS         QBS        LCS      SS         CQ        Ind
Procurement     ($44.79)                         ($1.03)    ($0.13)    ($10.05)
method thresholds
Prior Review    ($44.79)                         ($1.03)   ($0.13)   ($10.05)   $56.00
_____ _____ _____   ___ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____1 1 .1 %
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirement
review
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:
December 26, 1996
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations
- 123 -



Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date    Estimated date of  Indicate if there is  Domestic Preference   Domestic
of Project       publication of      procurement subject   for Goods           Preference for
Launch           General Procurement  to mandatory SPN in                      Works, if
Workshop         Notice              Development          Yes [xI              applicable
12/00/99         11/99               Business             No  []               Yes [ I
Yes 1yI                                  No  [N]
Retroactive financing                Advance procurement
Yes  []        No  (NI               Yes [ 3       No (N]        Explain
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: The existing PIU has a well-established procurement
monitoring system which will be used for tracking procurement actions and for generating the project
management and other reports. On the Bank side, the newly introduced SAP will be used for procurement
monitoring and for preparing 384s.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: The project includes a
substantial amount of co-financing expected from other co-finaciers. Goods, works and technical
assistance to be financed by the other co-financiers will be in accordance with WB guidelines.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project: Name: Naushad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist    Ext: 32699
Ibrahim Sirer, Procurement Specialist, World Bank Office, Ankara
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Mr. Khan based at HQ and Mr. Sirer
based at the World Bank Office in Ankara will be jointly responsible for supervision of procurement
under the project. Mr. Sirer will be responsible for review and clearances (in consultation with the TTL)
of procurement actions subject to Bank prior review, except for those subject to the mandatory review of
RPA for which Mr. Khan will be responsible.
- 124 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Project SchOdule                                   Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  3
First Bank mission (identification)      08/24/99
Appraisal mission departure               10/15/99
Negotiations                              10/16/99                    __
Planned Date of Effectiveness             11/30/99                                           =
Prepared by:
Bank team in cooperation with the Government of Turkey.
Preparation assistance:
The preparation team worked closely in cooperation with, and received significant financial support from,
UNDP for the preparation of the following elements: disaster management and mitigation, business
rehabilitation, temporary housing and the trauma program for adults. In addition, the team received
financial support from the European Union, the Dutch Trust Fund, the New Zealand Trust Fund and the
Canadian Trust Fund. Finally, the City of Amsterdam's Housing Department provided two teams of
experts to support the damage assessment and site selection teams for the housing component.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Piotr Wilczynski                  Task Team Leader
Christoph Pusch                   Deputy Task Team Leader/Housing and Municipal Infrastructure
Amy Evans                         Environment/Consultants and Trust Fund Arrangements
Catherine Stevens                  Social Aspects/Trauma
Milena Messori                     Operations
Alcira Keimer                     Emergency Management
Richard Andrews                   Emergency Management
Bruce Amlicke                     Emergency Management
Joe Bishop                        Emergency Management
Fred Krimgold                     Emergency Management
Eugene Gurenko                    Disaster Insurance Scheme
Rodney Lester                     Disaster Insurance Scheme
Ian McLean                        Disaster Insurance Scheme
Vijay Kalavkonda                  Disaster Insurance Scheme
Rick Hill                          Social Rehabilitation
Odd Hellesoy                      Trauma Recovery
Richard Lacroix                    Business Rehabilitation
Simon Gill                        Business Rehabilitation
Suha Satana                       Business Rehabilitation
- 125 -



Eric Peterson                     Housing
Yaman Uzumeri                     Housing
Saffet Attik                      Housing
Olgun Ersenkal                    Physical Infrastructure
Mirtha Pokorny                    Roads
Dejan Ostojic                     Energy
James Moose                       Energy
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson           Institutional Arrangements
Naushad Kahn                      Procurement
Gurdev Singh                      Procurement
Ibrahim Sirer                     Procurement/Physical Infrastructure
Rohit Mehta                       Disbursement Officer
Roberto Tarallo                   Financial Mangement
Alptekin Orhon                    Financial Mangement
Dilek Barlas                      Lawyer
Marc Walker                       Lawyer
Simay Gurunkcu                    Social Survey
Ismail Arslan                     Economist
Nedret Durutan                    Senior Policy Advisor
Cuneyt Okan                       Environment and Industrial Assessment
Anders Haildin                    Environment and Industrial Assessment
Hulya Bayramoglu                  Team Assistant
Ulker Karamullaoglu               Team Assistant
The list includes consultants who worked on preparing the project. In addition, the team was supported by
Nuran Ercan and Salih Kamal Kalyoncu from the TEFER PIU.
-126-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
TKGM: Kadastro Otomasvonu Projesi (Cadastre Automation Project)
*Including electronic files
-127 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements
Project ID     FY   Borrower                    Purpose                                IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 115
TR-PE-48851    1999 GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY         COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                    4.00       0.00        0.00       3.90      0.60      0.00
TR-PE-58877    1999 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY           EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY                   369.00       0.00        0.00      307.23    96.23      0.00
TR-PE-9073     1999 GOT                         INDUSTRIAL TECH                        155.00       0.00        0.00      155.00     0.00      0.00
TR-PE-48852    1998 TEAS                         NATL. TRNSM. GRID                     270.00       0.00        0.00      269.75    60.25      0.00
TR-PE-8985     1998 CESME-ALACATIUNION           CESMEW.S.&SEWER.                       13.10       0.00        0.00       13.00     2.10      0.00
TR-PE-9072     1998 REP. OF TURKEY               PRIV. OF IRRIGATION                    20.00       0.00        0.00       18.06     9.15      015
TR-PE-9089     1998 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY           BASIC ED I                            300.00       0.00        0.00      295.19    143.59     0.00
TR-PE-9095     1997 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY           PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                   14.50       0.00        0.00       14.50     767       000
TR-PE-35759    1996 GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY         PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.                     62.00       0.00        0.00       56.41    42.41       1.94
TR-PE-38091    1996 GOVERNMEN1 OF TURKEY         ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                   250.00        0.00       0.00      152.34     75.55      0.00
TR-PE-9076     1995 GOVERNMENT                   HEALTH II                             150.00       0.00        0.00      100.12    94.08      0.00
TR-PE-9093     1995 ANTALYAWATERSUPPLYAND  ANTALYAWATERSUPPLY                          100.00        0.00       0.00       75.38     1929      0.00
TR-PE-9102     1994 GOT                          PRIVATIZATION IMPLEM                  100.00       0.00       67.43        5.11    72.51     -0.23
TR-PE-9023     1993 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY           E. ANATOLIAWATERSHE                    77.00       0.00        0.00       44.23    47.42    -24.48
TR-PE-9064     1993 GOVERNMENT                   EMPLOYMENT & TRAININ                   67.00       0.00        0.00       36.31    33.90      0.00
TR-PE-9065     1993 MUN. OF BURSAIBUSKI          BURSA WATER& SANITA                   129.50       0.00       20.00       23.41    16.68      -757
TR-PE-9099     1993 GOVT. OF TURKEY              EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRU                  285.00       0.00       78.50       10.05    83.53      2323
TR-PE-9044     1992 REPUBLIC OF TURKEY           AGRIC. RESEARCH                        55.00       0.00        6.00       12.87     1837      687
TR-PE-9097     1992 GOT                          TAFORTREASURYDATA                       9.20        0.00       0.00        110       1.10      0.00
Total:   2,430.30       0.0D      171.93    1,595.96    825.43    -0.09
Active         Closed
Projects       Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):        875.40       9,703.29       10,578.69
of which has been repaid:        99.05       7,473.86        7,572.91
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    2,447.33         2,263.40        4,710.73
Amount sold:          0.00           3.55            3.55
of which repaid:        0.00            3.55           3.55
Total Undisbursed:    1,595.96            32.46       1,628.42
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 128 -



TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval       Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0/97            Rant Leasing                   3.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.54    0.00    0.00    0.00
1970/71/82/83/98    Viking                      11.79    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1979/82/83/89/91/96/ Trakya Cam                  0.00    5.06    0.71    0.00    0.00    5.06    0.71    0.00
99                Pinar ET                      12.75    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1983/94198        Silkar Turizm                  3.80    0.00    0.00    4.33    3.80    0.00    0.00    4.33
1986/90           Kiris                         22.28    0.00    0.00    0.00   22.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1988/90           Elginkan                      15.84    0.00    0.00    1.49   15.84    0.00    0.00    1.49
1988/93/96        Edirne                         2.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989              KepezElektrik                 14.17    0.00    0.00    0.00   14.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990              Koy-Tur                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92           Conrad                        16.81    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.47    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/93           Kula                           4.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              NASCO                         11.54    0.00    0.00    3.96   11.54    0.00    0.00    3.96
1991              Cayeli Bakir                  21.00    0.00    0.00   10.20   21.00    0.00    0.00   10.20
1992              Korfezbank                    13.50    0.00    0.00   29.50   13.50    0.00    0.00   29.50
1992/97           Eldor                          5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96           Medya                          3.96    4.99    0.00    0.00    3.96    4.99    0.00    0.00
1993/96           Sise Ve Cam                   17.92    0.00    0.00   23.90   17.92    0.00    0.00   23.90
1993/96           Turkiye Garanti               20.00    0.00    0.00   95.00   20.00    0.00    0.00   95.00
1993/98           AYTAC                          6.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    6.00    0.00    0.00    7.50
1994              Cerrahogullari                 1.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              CBS Holding                    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Pinar SUT                      1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Tekfen                         2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.14    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              Global Security                0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00
1994/95/96        Demirbank                     12.00    0.00    0.00   18.00   12.00    0.00    0.00   18.00
1994/96           Borcelik                      24.00    0.00   12.06    0.00   24.00    0.00   12.06    0.00
1994/96/97        Assan                         17.73    5.00    0.00    7.50   17.73    5.00    0.00    7.50
1994/97           Garanti Leasing                7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/98           Isvicre Hayat                  0.00    0.00    0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.49    0.00
1994/98           Ekspres Bank                   4.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Entek                         25.00    0.00    0.00   26.50   25.00    0.00    0.00   26.50
1995              TDD                            1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Yalova Acrylic                10.00    0.00    0.00    5.33   10.00    0.00    0.00    5.33
1995              Arcelik                       44.80    0.00    0.00   28.60   44.80    0.00    0.00   28.60
1995/96           CBS Boya Kimya                 0.00    0.00    3.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.65    0.00
1995/96           Turk Ekon Bank                15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00
1995/99           CBS Printas                    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00
1996              Kocbank                       10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Koclease                      12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              TCRA                           0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00
1996              Oyak Bank                     13.33    0.00    0.00   20.00   13.33    0.00    0,00   20.00
1997              Toprak Leasing                 4.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.44    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Demir Leasing                 12.78    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.78    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997198           Finans Leasing                 9.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98           Yapi Kredi Lease               8.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997/98           Adana Cement                  15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00   15.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
1998
- 129-



Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998              Alternatif Bank                10.00    5.00    0.00    15.00   10.00    5.00     0.00   15.00
1998              HPSTAS                         12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998              Indorama Iplik                 10.00    0.00     0.66    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.66    0.00
1998              Ipek Paper                     31.67    0.00    0.00    18.00   31.67    0.00     0.00   18.00
199g               Modern Karton                 20.00    0.00    0.00    10.00   20.00    0.00     0.00   10.00
1998              Ottoman                        20.00    0.00    0.00   80.00   20.00    0.00      0.00   80.00
1998              Pasabahce-Schott               15.71    0.00    0.00    15.71   15.71    0.00     0.00   15.71
1998              Soktas                         12.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.35    0.00      0.00-  0.00
1999              Gumussuyu Kap                   9.00    3.00     0.00    0.00    4.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1999              SAKoSa                         24.93    0.00    0.00   24.38   21.02    0.00      0.00   19.51
1999              TEB Finansal                    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       634.75   23.05   20.79  474.90  607.50   23.05    20.74  470.03
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
- 130-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TURKEY: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
Euro eI&    Unoor-                                          9/8/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central   middle-
Turkev       Asia  income        Development diamond'
1998
Ponulation. mid-vear 'millions)                         63.5       473        58B                  Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. US$)                     3160       2.190     4.860
G NP (Atlas method. USS billions)                      2r1 5      1 039     2 8d2
Averaoe annual arowth. 1992-98
Pooulation (fl                                           1.5        0.1        1.4
Labor force (X)                                          2.8        0.6        2.0      GNP                               Gross
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1992-981                                  per aprmary
capita                        eo/roltrnteot
Povertv /% of ooDulation below national oovertv line)
Urban oooulation (% of total ooDulation)                  73         68        77
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                          69         69        70
Infant mortalitv (oer *.000 live births)                  40         23        2?
Cfhild malniutrition I% of children under 51              It                                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of oooulation)                     ..          .       79
Illiteracv (% of Dooulation aae 15+)                      17          4        11
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoe oDOulation)     105        100       108               Turkey
Male                                                   107        101                         Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                 102         99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                             60.9     87.3      190 7      19S8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  19.9     25.7       25.1       248 
Fxnorts of nnods and serviceslnr)P              3 7     18         248       24 8                      Trade
Gross domestic savinoas/GDP                    13,3     23.5       19.3       21.1
Gross national savinos/GDP                     16.2     26.6       23.8      26.7
Ctirrent accouint halance/GfnP                 -5 2      -09       .2 4        0.3     Dmt
Interest oavmenta/GDP                           0.3      2.2        1.7        1.7      Domestic                     Investment
Total debtiGDP                                 18.8     46.9       47.8       51.4      Savings          )   0
Total debt service/exDorts                     29.1     35.5       20.2       21.6
Present value of debtlGDP                                          43.3
Present value of debt/exoorts                              -      146.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   1999-03
(a veraae annual arowthi
GDP                                   4.0       4.3      7.7        2.8        50Turkey
GNP aer canita                        1.4       2.8      6.9        2.3        3.6               Upper-middle-income group
ExDorts of ooods and services                  10 4     19.1       10.5        6.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998       Growth rates of output and investment I%/
(% of GDP)
Aoriculture                                    31.4     18.3       15.1       17.6     40
Industrv                                       21.5     31.8       28.2       25.4     20
Maoufacturino                                13.6      20.2       18.3      16.1        o
Services                                       47.0     49.9       56.7       57.0    -20      995    g    97   98
Private consumDtion                            74.9     68.7       68.4       66.3     40
General oovernmentconsumDtion                  11.8      7.8       12.3       12.6                     GDI           GOP
Imoorts of noods and services                  10.3     17.8       30.4       2862
faveraoe annual crowth)                    1977-87  1988.98        1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Aoriculture                                     0.9      1.3       -2.2        7.0    40
Industrv                                        5.3      5.1        9.2        1.8    20
Manufacturino                                 5.5       6.0      11.2        1.8
Services                                        3.8      4.3        6.9        3.3      0      I3 -4             go    7     V
Private consumotion                                      4.5       10.9       -3.1     20
General oovernment consumrtion                           3.5        4.1        5.0
Gross domestic investment                         -      5.4        5.8        9.3    40
Imoorts of ooods and services                     -     11.8       22.4        2.2                   Exports    -     mports
Gross national oroduct                          3.8      4.5        8.6        3.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show foulr kev indicators in the cointrv fin hold) comnared with its innnme-oroun averane If data are missinn the dinmnnd will
he incomnlete
- 131 -



Turkey
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                              120
Consumer prices                                                     85.6      83.7      so
Implicit GDP deflator                           23.7     33.6       81.2      74 2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    C40
Current revenue                                          22.6       23.4      24 7               93    94    95   9e    97
Current budget balance                                    5.7       -0.8       -14                   -     GDP deflator      0CP1
Overall surplus/deficit                                  -6.1       -8.7      -8.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1977      1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            1,753   10,322     26,799    27,531     60.000
Textiles                                      314    3,316       9,894    10,487
Processed agricultural products                889    1,826      2,578      2,130     40,000
Manufactures                                   126      270        970      1,033          I
Total imports (cif)                            5,796   14,158     48,559    45,935                                        _
Food                                            40   830   1,679   1,494   20,000 jj'jK                     f         1
Fuel and energy                              1,544    3,275      6,093     4,499
Capital goods                                1,979    3,956     11,277    11,036          0
92   93   94   95  09   97  9s
Exnort onrice index (f995=100)                             8 83       90        86
Imoort Drice index (1995=100)                              86         91        88                 *Exports       U Imports
Tarms of tradce (1995= 100)                               9PR         9         99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UISS millionsl                                1977      1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GP ratio 
Exports of goods and services                  2,293   14,135     47,576    50,785      4 T
Imports of goods and services                 6,220   15,326      56,511    55,412
Resource balance                              -3,927   -1,191     -8,935    -4,627      2
Net income                                     -319   -2,005        -558      -481
Net current transfers                          1,107    2,390      4,866     5,727      o
Current account balance                       -3,139     -806     -4,627       619      -2
Financing items (net)                         2,772     1,775      7,971      -172
Changes in net reserves                         367      -969     -3,344      -447        .
Memo:
Reserves includina oold (USS millions)            ..   5-494      27.168    29.506
Conversion rate (DEC. local/USSI                18.0    856.3   151,239   259,627
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                          Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          11,452   40,944     91,152   102,226                     A: 3,593
IBRD                                          512    6,290       3,587     3,598                                   C:329
IDA                                           181       170        118       112                                     0c 2,911
Total debt service                              954    5,981      11,349    13,198       G: 27,236                        E:6,077
IBRD                                           63      776        985        882
IDA                                             2         5          7         7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                10        42         49        37
Official creditors                            237      480       -121         34
Private creditors                             637    1,284      10,841      -153
Foreign direct investment                      27       106        554       573
Portfolio equity                                1        97      1,634    -6,386                                  P: 59,904
World Bank program
Commitments                                   144       957         35       956      A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 165      787        266        424      B- IDA     D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                           27       320       698        643      C - IMF                        G- Short-term
Net flows                                     138      467        -432      -219
Interest payments                              38      461        274        246
Net transfers                                 100         7       -706      -465
Development Economics                                                                                                        9/8199
- 132-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
SOCIAL SURVEY
I. INTRODUCTION
Following the devastating earthquake in the Marmara region of Turkey on 17th August, 1999, the
World Bank was asked by the Government of Turkey to prepare an emergency reconstruction loan as
soon as possible. This loan will most likely cover the following areas: housing, municipal infrastructure
(water, sewerage, electricity, telecoms, roads), education, insurance, health, trauma counseling,
industry, environmental clean up, institutional development for emergency response and enforcement of
building codes. The following report outlines the findings of the rapid social survey that has been
carried out to support the preparation of the MEER project.
II. OBJECTIVE
The overall objective of the social survey is to lay out the profile of the population that has been
effected by the earthquake, and assess the needs of this population to ensure that proper assistance is
provided for specific needs of various groups through the project. A second objective is to evaluate the
differences between the various cities that have been effected differently by the earthquake and to make
relevant recommendations for particular needs in the different regions.
III. METHODOLOGY
Given the emergency context of this operation, the time constraints associated with this disaster
situation and the need to produce useful data quickly for the preparation of the emergency
reconstruction project, the following methodologies were agreed upon as the most appropriate to
achieve the above mentioned objectives. A questionnaire was prepared in order to identify: a) the
demographic and the socio-economic profile; and b) various needs, preferences and attitudes of the
population which was effected(Annex 1). Then, a survey was conducted in the region hit by the
earthquake. It was carried out predominantly within the tent camps but also among the tents installed
on the streets, and among earthquake victims in hospitals. It was undertaken between September 16th
and 18th, or approximately one month after the August 17th earthquake (Table. 1 and Table. 2).
Table. 1     SURVEY REGION
Region                          Frequency          Percent
Adapazari                       207                  % 31.7
Avcilar                         23                   % 3.5
Degirmendere                    41                   % 6.3
Derince                         3                    % 0.5
Florya                          17                   % 2.6
Go1lcuk                         122                  % 18.7
Izmit                           147                  % 22.5
Sapanca                         7                    %1.1
Yalova                          47                   % 7.2
Unknown                         39                   % 6.0
Total                           653                  % 100
-133 -



Table. 2      SURVEY LOCATIONS
Location                      Frequency           Percent
Hospital                     24                     % 3.7
Tent Camps                   460                    % 70.4
School Yards                  14                    % 2.1
Tents on The Streets         68                     % 10.4
Lodgings                     19                     % 2.9
House                        2                      % 0.3
Streets, Cars                2                      % 0.3
Other                        32                     % 4.9
Unknown                      32                     % 4.9
Total                        653                    % 100
After two days of training, a field survey was carried out by 5 supervisors and 30 surveyors in three
days. Each questionnaire took around 30-45 minutes to complete. Samples were targeted from diverse
tent camps in different regions to ensure a representative sample. A sample of 653 people were
interviewed. The sample population has an average age of 40 (min= 14, max-=79) and has the following
gender and age frequencies.
Table. 3      GENDER
Gender                     Frequency            Percent
Male                      324                     % 49.6
Female                    325                     % 49.8
Unknown                   4                       % 0.6
Total                     653                 % 100
Table. 4      AGE GROUPS
Age                        Frequency            Percent
0-15                      2                       %0.3
16-20                     43                     %6.6
21 - 30                   107                     % 16.4
31 - 40                   195                     % 29.9
41 - 50                   165                 % 25.3
51 - 60                   83                     % 12.7
61 -70                    43                      %6.6
71+                       11                      %1.7
Unknown                   4                       % 0.6
Total                     653                     % 100
- 134 -



When evaluating the following data, one very imnportant point should be kept in mind. This survey
represents a snap shot of the attitudes and the profile of the population at a specific point in time. The
overall conditions in the region are extremely dynamic and fragile (changing number of tent camps,
changing nature of help provided to each region, intensity of the after shocks etc. Hence, the results of
this survey should be expected to differ in some key areas - such as intention to migrate, for example -
from surveys conducted at a different time. In addition, some of the data provided here may not be
relevant after a few weeks.
IV. FININGS
The questionnaire developed for the survey covered the following areas: demographic profile,
socio-economic status, damage and loss information, housing, settlement and migration, health,
education, sources of income for the household. Although all of these areas are interrelated, the findings
will be presented along these categories.
A.    Demographic Profile
The survey provides the following data about the demographic profile of the sample population (653
respondents). The mean age of the respondents are 40 (min=l4, max=79) and % 80 are married. The
average number of people per household is 4.5. The mean age of the household population
(approximately total population of 2940) is 29 (min-'O, max=-95). % 40.8 of the household po'pulation
below the age of 2 1.
Education level of the household population (including the adults and the children who are eligible for
schooling) is as follows:
Never been to school               % 9.0
5 years primary school degree      % 36.6
3 years middle school degree       % 9.0
3 years high school degree         % 15.2
College degree                     % 3.3
The following tables (Table. 5 and Table 6) show the birth place information of the respondent
population. The majority of this population was born in Marmnara, Black Sea, and East Anatolia
regions, and % 34.3 was born in towns.
Table. 5      BIRTH PLACE (REGION)
Region                       Frequency             Percent
Marmara                      317                     % 48.5
Black Sea                     103                    % 15.8
East Anatolia                 102                    % 15.6
Central Anatolia             40                      % 6.1
Southeast Anatolia           21                      % 3.2
Mediterranean                 14                     % 2.1
Aegean                        10                     % 1.5
Other                        43                      % 6.8
Total                        653                     %100
-135 -



Table. 6     TYPE OF BIRTH PLACE
Type                             Frequency         Percent
Village                         193                  %29.6
Town                            224                  % 34.3
City                            204                  % 31.2
Unknown                         32                   % 4.9
Total                           653                  %100
The average years of residence of this population in a) the Marmara region is 30 years, b) in the same
neighborhood is 14 years, c) in the same house is 2 years. One possible interpretation of this finding is
that this population might have been mobile in the region itself, i.e. changing neighborhoods, possibly
when they were able to find jobs. The average 2 years of residence in the same house may imply that
the one or two story houses they had been living might be converted into five or six story apartment
buildings over the last ten or fifteen years overlapping with the construction boom in the Marmara
region. Although they might be living on the same land, the type of housing they are occupying might
have changed.
B.    Type of Jobs/Income
The average household income of the respondent population per month is 168 million TL ($ 363).
Several additional information might help to contextualize this average. The average for household
income per month in the Marmara region is $ 666, and the Turkey average is $ 458 Statistical
Yearbook of Turkey 1997. State Institute of Statistics, Prime Ministry, Republic of Turkey. Although
the monthly income average of this population seems close to the country average, when compared to
the regional average it implies a more striking picture. This comparison suggests that the population
that we had access to, i.e the ones who stayed in the tent camps even after a month of the earthquake,
those who did not have any other place to go, represent also the economically marginal population of
the region whose average household income is almost half of the regional average. The poverty line in
Turkey is $ 200 (average household income per month) Recep Dumanli (1996) Poverty and Its
Dimensions in Turkey. State Planning Organization Publications No. 2449 June.. The following table
(Table. 7) shows the frequency of income groups among the respondent population.
Table. 7     HOUSEHOLD INCOME (PER MONTH-MILLION TL)
Income                  Frequency           Percent
0 - 100                 276                   % 42.3
101 - 200               195                   % 29.9
201 - 300               77                    % 11.8
301 - 400               20                    % 3.1
401 - 500               4                     % 0.6
500 +                   11                    % 1.7
Unknown                 70                    % 10.7
Total                   653                   % 100
As this distribution shows, % 42.3 of this population is in the 0- 100 million TL household income
group (between $ 0-214 bracket) which is close to the minimum wage in Turkey ($ 200 per month)
- 136 -



Ministry of Work and Social Security.. The regional distribution of household income groups suggests
that the respondent population of Adapazari is the lowest income group, whereas, Izmit has the most
equally distributed income among the respondent population (Table. 8).
Table. 8      HOUSEHOLD INCOME (PER MONTH-MILLION TL) REGIONAL
DISTRIBUTION
Region       0 - 100    101 - 200    201 - 300    301 - 400    401 - 500    500 +
Adapazari    % 55.5      % 30.2        % 11.5      % 2.2           -        % 0.5
Degirmend    % 44.4      % 33.3       % 16.7       % 2.8           -        % 2.7
ere
Golcuk       % 45.5      % 36.6       %10.7        % 3.6        % 0.9       % 2.7
Izmit        % 36.7      % 34.4       % 20.3       % 5.5        % 2.3       % 0.8
Yalova       % 42.8      % 38.1       % 11.9       % 7.1           -            -
The following table (Table. 9) shows the source of income for the households. Majority of the laborers
works in the construction business and some have temporary jobs.
Table. 9      TYPES OF JOB / INCOME
Job / Income                                 Frequency            Percent
Retired - Retired + Income                   178                    % 27.2
Laborer                                      111                    % 17.0
Small-to-Medium Size Business                87                     % 13.3
Artisan / Petty Trader                       60                     % 9.2
State Employee                               58                     % 8.9
Driver                                       29                     % 4.4
Unemployed                                   14                     % 2.1
Other                                        108                    % 16.7
Unknown                                      8                      %1.2
Total                                        653                    % 100
As shown in the following tables (Table. 10 and Table. 11), % 61.9 of the respondent population has
insurance, and % 40.4 of this insurance is SSK that covers mainly health.
Table. 10     INSURANCE (Do you have insurance?)
Insurance                  Frequency            Percent
Yes                       404                     % 61.9
No                        231                     % 35.4
Other                     8                       % 1.2
Unknown                   10                      % 1.5
Total                     653                     %100
- 137 -



Table. 11     TYPE OF INSURANCE SSK is the insurance system that mainly laborers are
eligible for. Small to medium size business owners, artisans are eligible for Bagkur insurance system.
Emekli Sandigi covers state employees.
Type                    Frequency             Percent
SSK                     264                    % 40.4
Bao - Kur               47                     % 7.2
Emekli Sandyoy          79                     % 12.1
Private                 6                      % 0.9
Other                   17                     % 2.6
Unknown                 240                    % 36.8
Total                   653                    % 100
% 56 of the respondent population do not have enough money to sustain themselves after the August
17th earthquake (Table. 12). % 40 of the respondent population said that there was a damage in the
workplace that provided the income for their household. Many of the workplaces that have been
damaged are small businesses and constructions that provided income (in some cases, temporary
income) for the laborers. But in interpreting these percentages it should be kept in mind that in surveys
conducted in these kinds of disaster situations, respondents will always exaggerate the losses and
damages they have to get the maximum possible support they can from various agencies. So it should
be expected that these percentages reflect some inflated numbers. But given the sources of income and
the amount of income these households had even before the earthquake, it is also expected that these
respondents will not have enough cash to sustain themselves for a long time.
Table. 12     CURRENT AVAILABLE CASH (Do you have enough money to sustain
yourselves?)
Cash Available                   Frequency          Percent
Yes                              256                  %39.2
No                               366                  % 56.0
Don't know                       14                   % 2.2
Other                            12                   % 1.8
Unknown                          5                    % 0.8
Total                            653                  %100
The regional breakdown of the above table shows that this percentage increases in Adapazari,
Degirmendere, and Golcuk, and decreases in Izmit (Table. 13).
Table. 13     CURRENT AVAILABLE CASH (Regional Distribution)
Region                     Yes                 No            Don't Know            Other
Adapazari                % 34.3             % 63.8              % 1.0              % 1.0
Degirmendere             % 34.1             % 61.0              % 4.9
Golcuk                   % 29.2             % 66.7              %1.7               % 2.5
Izmit                    % 49.6             % 42.9              % 3.4              % 4.1
- 138 -



C.    Housing
The section on housing provides the following information: house ownership; type of housing; housing
damage; type of damage; temporary and permanent housing preferences. Among the respondent
population % 47 own their house, % 42.4 rent it (Table. 14).
Table. 14    HOUSE OWNERSHIP
Ownership                                         Frequency            Percent
Owner                                             307                    % 47.0
Rental                                            277                    % 42.4
Relative's House (No Rent)                        50                     % 7.7
State Lodging                                     4                      % 0.6
Other                                             13                     % 2.0
Unknown                                           2                      % 0.3
Total                                             653                % 100
% 61.7 of the respondent population live in apartment units. The average size of the houses is 100m2
with 3 bedrooms and a living room. % 29.2 of the houses have 5 floors. Majority of the sample
population (% 85.8) does not own a second house (Table. 15, Table. 16, Table. 17).
Table. 15    TYPE OF HOUSING (1)
Type                             Frequency            Percent
Apartment Unit                   403                    % 61.7
House                            194                    % 29.7
State Lodgings                   2                     % 0.3
Cooperative Housing              27                     % 4.1
Other                            26                     %4.0
Unknown                          1                      % 0.2
Total                            653                    %100
Table. 16     TYPE OF HOUSING (2) (How many floors did the building have?)
Floors                          Frequency          Percent
I Floor                        69                   % 10.6
2 Floors                        134                 % 20.5
3 Floors                       83                   % 12.7
4 Floors                       92                   % 14.1
5 Floors                        191                 % 29.2
6 Floors                       55                   % 8.4
Other                          28                   % 4.3
Unknown                         1                   % 0.2
Total                          653                  % 100
- 139-



Since our respondent population is mainly constituted of people whose houses have been damaged,
Table 16 also implies that the majority of the buildings that were damaged were actually 5 floor
buildings. 5 floors seem to be the critical number in terms of implementing building codes and having
the optimum number of floors without an elevator.
Table. 17    SECOND HOUSE OWNERSHIP
2nd House Ownership               Frequency          Percent
Yes                              81                   % 12.4
No                               560                  % 85.8
Other                            7                    % 1.1
Unknown                          5                    % 0.8
Total                            653                  % 100
In terms of damage, % 93.3 of the respondent population had their house damaged. The figures of the
type of damage reveal that % 21.4 of the houses was completely collapsed, and % 20.1 was mildly
damaged (Table. 18, Table. 19). The percentage of the mildly damaged houses suggests that there is a
number of housing supply that can be used if repaired. But, as will be shown in some of the following
tables, the percentage of people who are willing to move in to mildly damaged buildings even after
repair is very low.
Table. 18    HOUSING DAMAGED
Damaged                                       Frequency           Percent
Yes                                          609                    % 93.3
No                                           40                     %6.1
Other                                        3                      % 0.5
Unknown                                      1                      % 0.2
Total                                        653                    % 100
Table. 19    TYPE OF HOUSING DAMAGE
Type of Damage                                           Frequency            Percent
Completely Collapsed                                     140                    % 21.4
Did not collapse completely, but
it is dangerous to get in and out                        201                    % 30.8
It is damaged, can not live in it, but
can get in and out                                       119                    % 18.2
Mildly damaged, could be lived in if repaired            131                    % 20.1
Other                                                    23                     % 3.6
Unknown                                                  39                     % 6.0
Total                                                    653                    % 100
- 140 -



Regarding the housing damage question, another issue is the assessment of this damage. When the
respondents were asked who assessed this damage, the most frequent responses were: Ministry of
Public Works, municipality, and do not know. These responses were immediately followed by a series
of concerns about how much they do not trust these assessments even when made by the ministry or the
municipality. Some of the respondents suggested that they even witnessed the collapse of certain
buildings that have been assessed as mildly damaged by these officials which led to an increasing sense
of distrust.
Series of questions regarding temporary and permanent housing options and preferences reveal the
following data that has important implications for housing programs. When asked about the short term
housing plans, such as what they are planning to do in terms of shelter in the following months, rather
than what they wished to have, % 27.3 said they are planning to live in prefab housing (Table. 20). But
the striking aspect of this table is that % 18.8 do not know where they might be living in the following
months which suggest a high level of uncertainty (something which will lead to a high level of anxiety)
in terms of the possible alternatives that they are able to consider.
Table. 20     SHORT-TERM HOUSING / SHELTER (Where are you planning to live in the
following months-this winter?)
Type of Shelter                                  Frequency             Percent
Anywhere provided by the state                   71                      % 10.9
Tent / Tent Camps                                 124                    % 19.0
Pre- Fab Housing                                 178                     % 27.3
Move back to my place after repairing            47                      % 7.2
Move in with a relative                           13                    % 2.0
Don't know                                        123                    % 18.8
Other                                            94                      % 14.4
Unknown                                          3                       % 0.5
Total                                            653                     %100
Table 20 also shows that the percentage of people who are planning to move back to their places after
repairing is very low. Although this might be explained through fear and anxiety, it is also closely
related to the sense of distrust in the assessment of the housing damage, as discussed above. Also the
fear and anxiety associated with houses might eventually go down, but a decrease in the sense of
distrust in established institutions is expected to take much longer.
In terms of temporary housing preferences, the most frequent answer in open-ended question is prefab
housing. When the same question is given with a list of specific options and they are asked to evaluate
each option, prefab housing again has the highest frequency (% 53). Among these options, repairing
own house or moving somewhere else, even temporarily is again extremely low (Table. 21).
- 141 -



Table. 21    TEMPORARY HOUSING PREFERENCES
-   Frequency                  Percent
Temporary Options                          Yes                     No  Yes   No
Houses in Adana                          5                        611 % 0.8 % 93.6
Hotels in Antalya                        7                        609 % 1.1 % 93.6
Pre-fab Housing                          346                      270 % 53.0 % 41.3
More Developed Tent Camps                32                       584 % 4.9 % 89.4
State Housing                            26                       590 % 4.0 % 90.4
Refugee Housing                          6                        609 % 0.9 % 93.3
Housing in Any City - Rent
Provided by the State                    93                       523 % 14.2 % 80.1
Repairing Your Own House                 59                       556 % 9.0 % 85.1
But when the question is put differently, i.e when they are asked to choose between moving to a prefab
housing as soon as possible and staying in tents for a while and then moving to a permanent housing,
the percentage of prefab housing does not drop drastically, but the number of people who will be
interested in the other option increases significantly (Table. 22). These figures suggest that even the
ones who were not willing to stay in more developed tent camps temporarily (see Table 21), are willing
to stay in tents if moved to permanent housing later on, rather than moving to prefab housing as soon as
possible.
Table. 22    HOUSING PREFERENCES
Preference                                             Frequency             Percent
To move to a pre-fab housing
as soon as possible                                    308                    % 47.2
To stay in the tents for a while and then
move to a permanent housing                            240                    % 36.8
Don't know                                             24                     %3.7
Other                                                  44                     % 6.7
Unknown                                                37                     % 5.7
Total                                                  653                 % 100
The following table shows the regional distribution of housing preferences (Table. 23).
Table. 23    REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF HOUSING PREFERENCES
To move to a     To stay in the tents
pre-fab housing   for a while and then
Region      as soon as        move to a               Don't know      Other    Unknown
possible         permanent housing
Adapazari       % 47.9             % 39.2               % 4.6         % 7.7       % 0.5
- 142 -



Avcilar         % 22.2            % 72.2               % 5.5
Degirmender     % 62.5            % 30.0               % 5.0         % 2.5
e
Golcuk          % 58.0            % 32.8               % 3.4         % 5.9
Izmit           % 52.1            % 35.9               % 5.6         % 6.3
Yalova          % 52.4            % 30.9                             % 16.7
The choice of prefab housing should be interpreted with caution. First of all, we see that if other viable
options are given as permanent solutions, the percentage of prefab housing preference drops as seen in
Table 22. Also, the observations in the field suggest that respondents do not have a clear idea of what
prefab housing really is. The image that many of them share is a house similar to the house that they
have been living before the earthquake which was in average a 1 00m2 with 3 bedrooms and a living
room. Moreover, the information that the respondents have access to in terms of the housing solutions
that will be offered by the government, the prefab solution is presented as the only viable solution and
the only one that will be offered by the government. In this context, it is expected that people would
choose the option which they think is the only possible option they can get from the government even
when they are not convinced with that alternative as the real solution. Another problem is that, the
formal procedures for qualifying for disaster benefits, including housing benefits, are extremely unclear
and ambiguous for the respondents. Given this ambiguity, it is again expected that respondents will try
to maximize whatever they can get from the government, and pick the prefab option assuming that that
is the only offered solution.
For the permanent housing preference, the most frequent answer is a one floor house, and % 75 would
want this built in the Marmara region.
D.    Migration
Both the actual and potential migration rates seem low, % 72.1 are not planning to migrate, temporarily
or permanently, in the near future (Table. 24 and Table. 25). These figures are also lower than the ones
seen in a survey completed by IBS Marketing Research Services about ten days before this survey. The
potential migration trend in IBS report points to % 23.7 of the respondent population, this survey
shows that only % 18.1 of the respondent population are planning to migrate, temporarily or
permanently, in the near future. This drop in the figures also points to the relevance of timing in the
evaluation of research findings. It is expected that these figures will drop over time either because
people who were planning to migrate will eventually move, or people might change their minds about
migrating, and decide to stay in the region.
Table. 24    MIGRATION TRENDS (Are you planning to migrate, temporarily or
permanently, in the near future?)
Intention                         Frequency           Percent
Yes                               118                  %18.1
No                                471                  % 72.1
Don't know                        29                   % 4.4
Other                             19                   % 2.9
Unknown                           16                   % 2.5
Total                             653                % 100
- 143 -



Table. 25    MIGRATION TRENDS
(After this earthquake, have there been people among your neighbors, relatives, friends who
migrated out of this region?)
Migration                     Frequency           Percent
Yes                           210                   % 32.2
No                            424                   % 64.9
Other                         8                     %1.2
Unknown                       11                    % 1.7
Total                         653                   % 100
E.    Health
The preliminary findings on health reveal that the health situation of the population in the Marmara
Region was quite problematic even before the earthquake hit the region. Among this population with an
average age of 40 years (min. = 14, max. = 79) (sample of 653 people interviewed), % 38 of the people
regularly take (before the earthquake) treatment or medication for an illness which they have. In
addition, % 37 of the population has at least one member of their household who regularly takes such
medication or receives treatment. Furthermore, % 12 of the sample said that there is at least one
member of the household who needs constant care due to being handicapped, retarded, disabled or due
to old age.
After the earthquake, % 64 of those interviewed admitted that they experienced extreme fear, % 58
insomnia, % 48 panic, and % 41 depression. As for the reaction of children, % 79 of those with
children said that the children suffered extreme fear, % 60 suffered insomnia, % 55 panic and % 46
depression. % 71 of those interviewed said they would accept psychological treatment if it were offered.
V. CONCLUSIONS
The findings of the social survey point to the following observations: high level of uncertainty and
anxiety about the future; low level of trust in established institutions; lack of information and/or
misinformation, especially about housing, work and physical damage in the region. In any kind of
reconstruction project, these observations need to be taken into account. Since the majority of this
population is not willing to move out of the region, either temporarily or permanently, solutions need to
be developed within this region.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
There is a possibility of developing several pilot projects which can deal with the above mentioned
issues. Any project has to take an integrated approach and should have community participation as the
primary objective. Since there seems to be an extremely low sense of trust in the established
institutions, the source of trust would lie within the community, and for any kind of reconstruction
project to succeed, community participation in collaboration with reliable private sector agencies and/or
NGOs seems to be the key issue.
Although the level of trust in established institutions is extremely low, there are certain governmental
institutions that can function more effectively given financial and technical assistance. The most
outstanding one among these is the General Directorate for Social Services and Child Protection. If this
institution, which already has an extensive network of community programs, can be supported with
more staff and financial resources, it can be used much more efficiently in social rehabilitation
programs especially with respect to children and women.
- 144 -



Following are some recommendations for possible community participation and empowerment
programs:
Increased information: Marmara Region Information System:
Since lack of information and /or misinformation and not having access to information seem to be one
of the key issues, an information flow system could be developed in the region. Such a network can be
available to the use of any person or organization, encompass a broad base, encourage sharing, provide
ease and transparency in the relationship of local administration, the state, civil organizations, and
citizens. Types of information in this kind of network would include: housing options; registration for
housing and benefits; health; mental health; news about reconstruction timetables and eligibility for
various benefits; updated needs assessment of people living in the tent camps.
Possible Partners: Association of the Municipalities of the Marmara Region and the Straits,
Association of Human Settlements, Universities and NGOs specialized in providing expertise and
software in establishing such a network.
Community Involvement in the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Process
The main objective of this project could be to strengthen the participation of the community in the
provision of resettlement activities with particular emphasis on the requirements of specific groups.
This kind of participation has the potential to provide people with an opportunity to re-establish
themselves in a timeframe and manner according to their own requirements. The speed of change for
the communities from an emergency situation to one of permanence, together with the financial and
physical requirements of their housing and social rehabilitation, can be determined by the communities
and not external agencies.
Consultation with communities on their requirements, with emphasis on the disabled, women and
children can be followed by the development of participatory planning processes. Guidelines can be
established for ensuring that communities are consulted and that they are represented when deciding the
type and substance of the rehabilitation process including planning, design, construction of houses and
community facilities, and evaluation and monitoring of the process.
The project partners can be responsible for setting up and managing the participation program
including consultation with communities, establishing the participatory mechanisms, providing training
and information, establishing performance indicators to assess the results of the program and ensuring
the approach is institutionalized.
Possible project partners: Metropolitan municipality, district municipality, Association of Human
Settlements, Chamber of Architects, Chamber of Urban Planners, The International Union of Local
Authorities, private architectural firms who are willing to provide support service in land use
management, and provide alternative building plans and material during the reconstruction phase.
Note. The research for this report was carried out at the request of the World Bank, with the
collaboration of Koc University, Yeditepe University (Department of Social Anthropology) and
Marmara University. The Computer center and computer facilities of Yeditepe University were
used for the analysis of the survey data. Funding was provided by the European Commission and
the World Bank.
- 145 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS in the IBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country: Turkey
Project ID No: TR-PE-068368
Project Name: Marmara Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction (MEER) Project
Total Project Cost: US$.737 billion USD ($505 million USD IBRD loan)
Appraisal Date: October, 1999
Board Date: 16 November 1999
Team Leader: Piotr Wilczynski
Managing Unit ECSSD Sector Rural Development
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank: N/A
EA Category (A/B/C): B Date Assigned: 14 October, 1999
Date Sheet Updated:
Major Project Components: The primary purpose of the project is to restore living conditions in the
region of Turkey that was affected by the August 17, 1999 Marmara earthquake, support economic
recovery and growth, and develop an institutional framework for disaster risk management and mitigation.
The main components and sub-components are:
Component A - Disaster Response Systems and Risk Mitigation
3   Sub-component A-1: National Emergency Management System
*   Sub-component A-2: Disaster Insurance Scheme
e   Sub-component A-3: Land Use Planning and Construction Code Enforcement
3   Sub-component A-4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management
Component B - Business Rehabilitation and Mitigation of Social Effects
i Sub-component B-1: Business Rehabilitation
e   Sub-component B-2: Mitigation of Social Effects
Component C - Physical Reconstruction
*   Sub-component C- 1: Construction of Permanent Housing
*   Sub-component C-2: Repair of Existing Housing Stock and Healthcare Facilities
*   Sub-component C-3: Municipal Infrastructure
Component D - Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
Major Environmental Issues. The overall environmental impact of the MEER project is expected to be
very positive, in that it is directed toward restoration of necessary municipal infrastructure, including water
supply and wastewater treatment, in the cities heavily damaged by the earthquake. Environmental issues
are primarily associated with component C (Physical Reconstruction). Under component C, environmental
issues arise in connection with the construction of new permanent housing (sub-component C- 1) and
restoration of municipal infrastructure (sub-component C-3). The types of environmental issues faced
within component C include land clearing for site preparation, movement of workers, equipment and
materials to and from project site, proper disposal of debris and damaged equipment (including power
cables and transformers), proper design of reconstructed water supply systems, sewerage and storm water
- 146-



systems, wastewater treatment systems, streets and bridges. Under sub-component A- I, the construction of
an emergency operations center will require environmental oversight from the project for site selection and
preparation, design and infrastructure. Under sub-component B-i, environmental issues may arise in
connection with wastes generated from the small industry and services (e.g., metal working, auto service
and parts shops, small manufacturing) that would be housed in the reconstructed premises to be financed
under the project.
Other Environmental Issues. Apart from the components and sub-components referenced in the preceding
paragraph, the interventions financed by the project address institutional and legal reform related to
emergency management, insurance, land registration and management, building code compliance, small
business rehabilitation, social services for the population effected by the earthquake, and project
management, and do not involve significant environmental issues.
Proposed Actions. Compliance with the environmental requirements of Turkey and the Bank will be
achieved in the following way. In the PIU an Environmental Specialist hired under the TEFER project will
be responsible for screening the specific investments eligible for financing under this operation. The list of
investments is included in Annex A of the PIP. Initial assessments carried out by the project team,
including road and municipal infrastructure engineers, and the Bank environmental specialist's review
during appraisal show that no major environmental impacts are foreseen. Moreover, the PIU Environmental
Specialist will be responsible for reviewing the project list and assuring that environmental requirements as
stipulated in Turkish environmental law and ordinances are followed. Compliance with those requirements
by the implementing agencies will be a condition for financing by the PIU. For Component C, site
assessments will be carried out. Environmental aspects related to the construction phase of this component
will be incorporated in the TORs for contractors and enforced by the PIU environmental specialist. Funding
for continuation of the services of the Environmental Specialist is included in the MEER budget for the
PIU, together with resources for other studies and additional assessments that might be identified by the
environmental specialist as necessary.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category. Category B is considered most appropriate as
major environmental impacts are not anticipated, and adequate provisions are made in the project for
studies, assessments and oversight of environment issues that may arise in connection with construction or
repair of housing, infrastructure, small industry and the emergency operations center.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment. (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current
status) N/A
Remarks. (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted,
tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA, etc)
Sub-component C- 1 (new permanent housing construction) includes provisions for consultations with
beneficiaries regarding siting, building design and proximity to social services.
Signed by:  i 
{Team Leader
Signed by:
October 1 419
- 147 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
TEMPORARY SHELTER REPORT
Introduction
On August 17, 1999 an earthquake measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale produced extraordinary damage
in the Marmara region of Turkey - its industrial heartland. Over 15,000 lives have been lost. Damage to
housing stock was particularly devastating. More than 300,000 housing units were destroyed or
damaged, forcing an estimated 600,000 people to find emergency shelter. Many found no other option
but to live in tents. Cold winter conditions are expected by mid-November.
By October I between 160,000 and 280,000 people were living outside or in tents in the Marmara
region. The Government of Turkey, obliged to address the temporary shelter needs of this population
until permanent housing can be made available, must find an efficient cost-effective solution. A range of
options is available.
The assistance now being provided has been adequate but uneven, and most of the displaced seem
unclear about the choices for their future. Their strategies for finding shelter before the winter are
influenced by several factors. These include their post-earthquake income strategies, education
requirements for their children, dealing with the trauma of the earthquake and of their present condition,
their strategy for utilizing fully the resources now being made available by the government and relief
community, and their own need to regain control and direction in their lives. Capacities and credibility
of engineering and construction processes, as well as identification of a clear category of need for
temporary shelter are also critical factors.
Objective
The objective of this report is to outline and analyze the issues affecting the population made homeless
in the Marmara earthquake, to address options for providing temporary shelter for those living outside
and in tents, and to make recommendations aimed at an efficient and cost effective program to provide
temporary shelter.
1.   Profile of the affected
l.a Number of "homeless ". Those who have moved in with relatives or friends or have been able to
rent or move into vacant housing somewhere are not considered to be in need of temporary housings. As
a general rule, those in need of temporary housing are those who are living in a tent or in the open and
this report will refer to this group as "homeless".
There is yet no clear, comprehensive census on the numbers of people who are homeless. Estimates of a
number of town officials and leaders interviewed in the affected communities indicated that there are as
many people in tents outside of organized camps as there are in organized tent camps. Approximately
80,000 people are now registered in tent communities (Government of Turkey, Ministry of Internal
Affairs). Based on the estimates of community leaders, this would indicate that approximately 160,000
people are now in need of temporary housing.
A survey by the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) provides a different figure. Based on a comprehensive
- 148 -



interview of people in the four worst damaged provinces of the Marmara region, the SIS uses a figure of
250,000 who are homeless. This survey counted every person who could be found living outside in a
tent, as well as those in public houses (government vacation housing). Including the other three
provinces that were affected (Istanbul, Eskisheir, and Bursa) would increase the number to 280,000.
This figure is calculated by taking the number homeless as a percentage of all houses damaged in the
surveyed provinces/municipalities, and applying this percentage to the number of damaged houses in
Istanbul, Eskisheir, and Bursa, and adding that figure to 250,000. Actual homeless will be somewhat
less. This figure includes those in public vacation houses (camps). Consequently, this figure is higher
than the number of people living in tents and outside (homeless). The number of those who are in tents
relative to the level of damage is much lower in Istanbul, this means that the percentage of homeless to
damage used to raise the total figure to 280,000 is actually higher than the actual number of homeless.
The range of 160,000 to 280,000 homeless represents a range of 35,000 to 62,200 required dwelling
units. A figure often used by the government for persons per family is 4.5.
Damaged Homes
Figures in Table A were provided by the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS) Directorate
of Technical Research and Implementation, who will manage contracts for construction of pre-fab units
for temporary shelter:
TABLE A
A. Housing units which are completely destroyed                     66,441
B. Housing units which are severely damaged, but able to be repaired  67,242
C. Housing units which are lightly damaged                          80,160
These figures provide an idea of the number of potentially homeless. These categories are also
important because they are used to determine eligibility for benefits offered by the Government of
Turkey (GoT).
Many of those who left their homes have moved in with relatives, or otherwise found adequate shelter.
This will reduce the numbers in all categories, but especially A.
1. b. Shelter options now employed by affected population. Those who have left their homes seek
shelter from three categories:
A. Shelter in or next to homes with friends or relatives. In many cases this involves migration
out of the area.
B. Move to undamaged second home, vacation home, or rent accommodation. This could also
involve migration to other areas of Turkey or outside the country.
- 149 -



C. Tent-shelter. (1) Tent-shelter in organized camps. People in camps are more likely to have
lost their home completely.
(2) Tent-shelter in the neighborhood of the damaged house. The affected in this category are
likely to remain close to a damaged but still standing home because they are protecting assets
from looting, because they have other support from relatives close by, or because it is close to
their workplace or source of income.
L.c.  Demographics andpreferences. Two surveys also provide some information on the expressed
preferences and demographics of the homeless: (1) A survey conducted by IBS, an Istanbul-based
marketing research firm in the first weeks after the earthquake, and (2) A survey completed in late
September conducted by a team from Koc University lead by Dr. Ayfer Bartu commissioned by the
World Bank MEER team. The Bartu Survey is attached in Annex 11 and provides the basis for much of
the analysis in this report. A few of its finding are particularly important to the issue of temporary
housing.
Demographics of the homeless
The homeless population is poor and relatively poorly educated. Most work as a small
businessman/trader, laborer, or are retired. Nearly half owned their own houses, 61% lived in an
apartment building. Approximately half were not born in the region. Thirty-eight percent are under
some sort of treatment for illness, and 41%-64% have experienced psychosocial problems since the
earthquake. This increases to 79% for children.
Indicators of Intent (where do you plan to live in the following months?)
Pre-fab housing                   27.3%
Anywhere provided by state        10.9%
Tent Camps                        19.0%
Return to repaired house    7.2%
Move in with a relative            2.0%
Do not know what they intend to do    18.8 %
Temporary housing preferences
Pre-fab housing                   53%
Resort housing in other regions   1.9%
Developed tent camps              4.9%
State housing                     4.0%
Rental unit (rent provided by state)  14.2%
Repair and return to own home     9 %
The State Institute of Statistics asked a similar question. The results of that survey are:
Pre-fab housing                  41%
Rental unit (rent provided by state)   57%
Public houses                    0.2 %
- 150-



The Bartu study also asked the respondents to choose between moving to a pre-fab house or staying in a
tent and then moving to permanent housing. 47.2% chose pre-fab and 36.8 % chose to stay in tents in
anticipation of permanent housing.
The demographics and location of respondents in the Bartu study, combined with the answers to this last
question, offer some explanation for the difference in response to question on housing preference between
the Bartu study and the SIS study. The sample in the Bartu study is a poor population seeking a
permanent solution. A more substantial pre-fab home is more likely to become permanent than any of the
other "temporary" options. When the option of a permanent house is offered, the pre-fab preference
drops. This preference for a quick permanent housing solution is typical of similar populations displaced
by disaster (F.C. Cuny, Disasters and Development, Oxford Press, 1986; Shelter After Disasters:
Guidelines for Assistance, Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator. United Nations.
1982. New York; B.E. Friday, Rebuilding Shelter After Natural Disaster: Three Decades of USAID
Experience in Latin America and the Caribbean. USAID, 1999).
Dr. Bartu also points out that her surveyors were treated as if they were collecting data for a list of
beneficiaries. The surveyors remarked that those respondents choosing the pre-fab option insisted that the
surveyor mark down their name as if to make sure they were being placed on the list to receive the
pre-fab. Studies of other post-disaster populations show that it is also typical of the displaced that they
develop focused strategies for assuring that they are eligible for as many options as possible. This is
particularly true of those from lower economic strata. It is important to note that approximately one half
of those who wanted to move to a pre-fab unit thought they would actually be living in one - indicative of
a group seeking to keep as many options open as possible.
Experience from other disasters also indicates that a number of those with particularly few financial
resources anticipate that a pre-fab home, or other temporary shelter constructed of permanent materials,
will become permanent. The experience with the use of pre-fab housing has justified this belief. While
this strategy does provide housing for the poor, the temporary pre-fab projects are typically poorly
planned due to the intention that they will indeed be temporary. In fact, at least a portion of the project
usually becomes permanent.
A greater percentage of the SIS respondents own (or owned) their own homes and fewer are in tent
camps. More are also living next to friends or relatives. This group is more likely to have dependable
emotional, financial, and physical support, have greater financial resources, and be less interested in the
benefits associated with camps. They are more likely to have a plan for reconstruction, repair or some
other permanent solution, and not now have access to the benefits associated with the camps. This group
will more likely have plans that the cash from the rental subsidy will support. At the time of writing, the
Government of Turkey Social Solidarity Fund (SSF) had been accepting applications for the government
rental subsidies for seven days. Rates in Kocaeli and Sakarya provinces were at 87% and 42% of the total
eligible population, respectively. The SSF offices in each province were continuing to process 1000-2000
applications each day.
The dissonance between studies also implies a population with widely varying perceptions of what the
accessible programs for reconstruction will be. The high numbers of respondents in the Bartu study who
do not know what will happen supports this picture of widespread uncertainty and confusion.
The picture that is painted is of a poor population, uncertain of what their options are, and seeking to
secure as many opportunities as possible. Also indicative of their uncertainly, most want a permanent
- 151 -



solution as soon as possible.
I .d.   Incomes. The number of those employed as well as levels of income have both dropped due to the
effects of the earthquake. The service sectors are the hardest hit, due to both losses of shop infrastructure
and inventories, as well as a significant drop in demand due to the pervasive access to free relief goods.
There was a much smaller reduction in employment in the salaried jobs in the industry sector. For
example, the number of jobs in large industry in the Izmit area dropped only 3% from 130,000 to
125,000 (Nihat Guher, Head of Board, Izmit Chamber of Commerce).
The number of retired in the communities of the affected area are approximately 25% (Bartu survey).
This population on small fixed incomes probably includes a large number of people who had low monthly
shelter costs due to the fact that they owned their homes. Given the income levels of this population, we
can assume that many built their own homes.
I.e.   In most areas, housing damage is scattered. Occupied, undamaged buildings are interspersed with
damaged buildings. With the exception of the town of Adapazari, losses are distributed throughout the
community, and rarely is one community completely destroyed.
2.     Needs of the homeless - other issues affecting shelter choices
2. a.   Levels of shelter damage, resource protection, storage. Sixty nine percent of the damaged
homes (147,402, Ministry of Public Works figures for numbers and levels of damage) units are still
standing, and can be repaired. But many of the occupants of these buildings are afraid to re-occupy these
buildings for fear of possible collapse, particularly as aftershock continue. Nevertheless, the contents of
the buildings represent a lifetime of accumulated resources and the owners prefer to remain close to the
building to guard against theft. Those with items salvaged from collapsed buildings or seeking to move
require storage and/or other means of securing their belongings.
2. b.   Access to health care, nutritional issues. Health care needs for displaced populations typically
increase and are exacerbated by the trauma of the event as well as uncertainty. Nutritional needs in this
population continue to require outside support, although some of the homeless population could feed
themselves from their own resources. It is typical for affected populations who receive common
pre-cooked rations (e.g. in group kitchens) to undergo some weight loss. Emotional complications tied to
victimization are also reinforced by reduced dietetic choices.
2.c.   Transport. Decisions regarding shelter are affected by transport options. Displaced persons with
a job may opt to remain in a tent rather than find a rental apartment if the apartment is much further from
the place of employment than the tent.
2.d.   Information. One of the most overlooked but critical needs of the displaced is accurate and
relevant information about the forces affecting their condition. This can include information about dead
and injured - particularly from distant communities - employment opportunities, benefit programs,
temporary and permanent housing choices, and available health services. Reliable, clear, and accessible
information is crucial to the process of transition out of victimization and dependency (discussed below).
2. e.   Credible reconstruction capacity. As discussed below, evidence indicates a low level of
credibility of some Turkish engineering and construction practices among this population, particularly
that sponsored by the government. The poor credibility of the damage assessments conducted by the
MPWS will have to be addressed before an effective repair and reconstruction program can begin.
- 152 -



3.    Types of temporary housing.
3. a.   Tents. There are an estimated 80,000 tents now in use by people displaced by the earthquake.
These range from a piece of plastic tied across wooden frames to large insulated winter tents
manufactured by and supplied by the Turkish Army. Tents are often used in refugee emergencies, but can
not for long be considered acceptable by more sophisticated populations. As winter approaches the only
acceptable tent would be the Army winter tent or its equivalent. These 30m2 tents can be heated, appear
to be acceptable to a significant percentage of the displaced, and could provide less expensive temporary
shelter for those who have no other acceptable options. Well-run tent camps provide the security
especially important to the recently displaced. However, they are expensive to maintain. Costs for an
American based relief organization to administer one of the camps for Kosovo refugees in Macedonia
April - June 1999 was approximately 185 US$/month/camp occupant (Source: Jerry Dine, Mercy Corps
International, Portland Oregon, USA. and encourage dependency).
Although the use of tents does not preclude families from cooking their own meals, usually meals are
provided for the camp occupants, further enforcing dependency and often contributing to emotional and
other health effects related to personal control of the diet.
3. b.   Pre-fabricated (pre-fab) construction. Pre-fab houses have also been used to house displaced,
particularly in colder climates where shelters must be heated in the winter. In this context, pre-fab houses
provide excellent shelter, can allow families to cook their own meals, but are expensive compared to other
options. The record of pre-fab use also indicates that these units are often perceived as being permanent,
both by occupants who tend to stay and use the pre-fab as a core house to which they add, and by
goverments who find it easier to believe that a family is accommodated in a pre-fab house and reduce or
abandon efforts to provide a genuinely permanent solution. The eventual permanence of pre-fab '
temporary' housing for displaced is well documented (Shelter After Disasters: Guidelines for Assistance,
Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator. United Nations. 1982. New York; B.E. Friday
, Rebuilding Shelter After Natural Disaster: Three Decades of USAID Experience in Latin America and
the Caribbean. USAID, 1999). These publications describe how well meaning but hastily planned
pre-fab communities usually are not dismantled, and eventually become slums. This was the case with the
pre-fab community created in the aftermath of the Skopje earthquake in 1964, which is now a problematic
low-income section of Skopje. Problems associated with pre-fab housing are not limited to less developed
countries. Mary Camario, in a paper delivered in January 1999 at the US/Japan Workshop of Reducing
Urban Earthquake Hazards in Kobe, reported that after the Kobe earthquake Japan spent 2.5 billion USD
on 48,000 temporary pre-fab houses. The cost was more than the cost of a typical permanent house, the
inappropriate pre-fab units contributed to myriad emotional problems in the mostly elderly population,
and five years later approximately 12,000 are still occupied. A draft guideline from the World Bank also
warns of the problems associated with pre-fab housing (Providing More Bank Assistance for Housing
Reconstruction after Natural Disasters, World Bank Disaster Unit, April 1999 Draft). The Government
of Turkey has contracted for 29,300 30m2 prefab duplex units. The Ministry of Public Works and
Settlement (MPWS) set standards and price for these pre-fab units. One of the largest Turkish
manufacturers of pre-fab housing, TEPE, normally sells a unit like the ones specified by the MPWS for
4,200 USD. The price set by the MPWS is 3,300 USD. Finding suitable land for the pre-fab units
appears difficult, and the use of land for pre-fabs will further reduce land available for permanent
housing. At the time of writing information available to the MEER team indicated that construction of
permanent housing would be delayed due to land being re allocated for pre-fab temporary housing.
3.c.   Conversions of large existing spaces. This option has apparently not been considered for this
- 153-



emergency. Large spaces such as warehouses or large retail spaces can be partitioned into "apartments".
This option has fewer developmental costs since water, sewage, and power are at the site. It is also likely
to be in town, and close to employment and services.
3. d.   Hostfamilies. This presents the fewest costs to the state. The burden of added support taken on
by the host family is considerable. Allowing the displaced that are living with host families to draw the
same benefits as others can offset this burden.
3. e.   Use of existing excess capacities, rental/vacation housing. The standard vacancy rate for
housing in Turkey is 4%. With the destruction of so many houses, it is not clear whether there is any
excess dwelling capacity in the region. As many as 30% of those who are homeless may have migrated
from the area (" A Socio-Economic and Statistical Analysis of the August 17 Earthquake", IBS Marketing
Research Services. Istanbul, 1999). The recent SIS survey indicates that more than 10% of the current
homeless are contemplating migration, and more than 10% are contemplating leaving for other towns in
Turkey (State Institute of Statistics survey). Many will take the benefits that accompany this option and
migrate out of the area. The benefits of residency in camps provide a strong incentive to stay. If cash
benefits were available in outside locations in lieu of in-kind benefits in the camps, the amount of
migration would be higher. At the time of writing, a high percentage of those with high and medium
damage to their homes were electing to take the rental subsidy. Although many had already found
accommodation other than in tents, clearly most would not find space to rent in the area and would have
to migrate or remain in a tent.
Table B compares the five options discussed above for a population of 10,000 families.
4.    Rapid Transition to Permanent Housing.
The requirement and cost for temporary housing can be reduced by re-directing resources into programs
which would make permanent housing available within the next three months. Options which place
resources into permanent solutions are attractive because they use resources for costs that the government
or society would bear in any case. Conversely, the costs of temporary housing are largely unrecoverable.
4. a.   Completion of housing under construction. The Housing Development Agency (HDA) identified
6000 - 8000 units in the earthquake area that are now near completion and which could be available as
rental units for displaced. This option is constrained by the ability of the HDA to bring the owners of
these units (many of whom are part of a cooperative) to some consensus of agreement about renting their
newly completed units for up to eighteen months until other housing is built or repaired. If this option is
pursued, the cooperative should not be required to achieve 100% consensus. Availability of 80%-90% of
the units in the building would avoid a few dissents from preventing an agreement and would provide a
significant amount of housing. This option may also be available from other sources of housing under
construction.
4. b.   Rapid assessment and repair of damaged housing. The Bartu Survey (Appendix A) lists 38.3%
of the respondents as being from repairable houses and 28% of the homeless interviewed came from
homes that had light or no damage. SIS survey figures are higher.
Buildings in the "lightly damaged" category should not have structural damage, yet many of the former
residents are afraid to return to them. A credible assessment and/or repair program could encourage many
of these to return to their homes.
- 154 -



This option is constrained by three potential problems:
(1)    The Bartu survey, the preliminary World Bank damage report, as well as the consensus of area
municipal and commercial organization leadership interviewed indicate a general distrust of the MPWS
engineering assessments. Awareness of the need for dependable engineering is now extremely high among
this population, and efforts to repair and certify as safe will have to address the need for credible
engineers and contractors to supervise the work. A large and respected private sector engineering firm,
well respected University Engineering Department, or well regarded foreign firms may provide the
credibility required. Repairs should proceed only when there is clear assurance that the assessment and
work will be accepted.
(2)    Cost of repairs. It is unclear that this population has sufficient financial resources to pay for
repairs. As the Bartu survey indicates the homeless group are typically very low-income families,
although many ( 5 8.8%, State Institute of Statistics) own their homes. There will be a need to make low
interest loans and repair subsidies available to this group in order to encourage rapid implementation.
(3)    Capacity of the industry. It is not clear that local engineering and contracting capacity can
support a rapid large-scale repair effort - particularly with the heightened expectations and standards of
the post-earthquake population requiring caution and exceptional thoroughness at every step. To
maximize the amount of repaired dwelling space available before winter, initial project should be for
lightly and moderately damaged buildings which are now unoccupied, which would provide shelter for the
homeless, and for which repairs which can be completed in three months. One local expert suggests that
30,000 units might be repaired before winter under such a program (Dr. Ali Turel, Department of City
and Regional Planning, Middle East Technical University. Personal communication, 30 September,
I 999).
5.     Social program management.
The impact of displaced program management on both costs and success of temporary housing programs
is often not appreciated. Addressing better mental health and cognitive recovery as well and producing
clarity in the social service and assistance program will reduce other assistance costs and return displaced
to productive lives more quickly.
5. a    Reducing dependency. It is now well documented that those cared for through relief processes
will increasingly become less likely to return to productive life the more they are allowed to act as
victims, and look to the state or relief organizations for support and direction for their lives. Although the
relief community is now learning to support the movement out of victimization as early as possible, the
tendency is still to do the opposite- continuing to make decisions for affected populations and encourage
them to be taken care of. Often relief agencies must be prodded to begin programs that provide incentives
for families to leave camps, begin jobs, and move past victimization. The costs of this continued
dependency is measured in considerable social support costs to the state, as well as loss of productive
energy in the society. Opportunities to participate, guide, and choose direction of the next stage in their
lives are important emotional and cognitive steps in the return to a productive life. Failure to discourage
dependency will increase and prolong the requirement for temporary shelter.
5. b.   Support for transition out of relief. Several types of programs assist people who will leave the
support network of camps. Employment counseling, enterprise support (loans and training) skills training,
trauma counseling, and other programs focusing on the future support this transition. As these programs
become accessible to the tent camp populations, increasing numbers will choose to leave the camps for
- 155 -



other options.
Where feasible, cash payments for food, housing, and hygienic items allow/force people to begin making
their own choices as well as reduce the burden on the state and relief organizations of providing and
administering these support programs. Cash payments also typically assist in reviving the local economy
as people begin using private suppliers rather than the relief networks. This dynamic would be
particularly important in this region as the small business sector is hardest hit, and suffers even further
from the loss of business due to large amounts of free food and assistance. Answers to the Bartu social
survey (Appendix A) indicate that the benefits associated with registration in a camp are an incentive to
remain in the camp. As long as this incentive remains, dependency and its costs will remain high.
Increased transport options allow the displaced to seek housing in communities away from their places of
employment.
S.c    Standardization, reduction of administrative costs. The variety of programs and benefits and the
dispersion of sources for these programs encourage confusion among a population struggling to bring
clarity and direction back into their lives. This is particularly true when similar programs are
administered by more than one agency. Although some populations will require special programs (young,
disabled, elderly, vulnerable women), standardization of benefits across the population and consolidation
of similar programs under one administrative process reduces administrative costs, reduces the efforts
required by displaced to access programs, produces confidence in their ability to be independent from
relief, leaves more time for employment or reconstruction, and ultimately supports the movement away
from dependency on relief
6.     Temporary shelter quality, housing preference, and effective use of resources.
Every displaced population brings to the response certain expectations. The Bartu survey asked the
respondents if they would accept an option that provided less privacy or less quality for the opportunity to
move into permanent housing more quickly. Results from the survey as well as conversations with the
surveyors and with leaders in the community indicate that many of the displaced place highest priority on
moving into permanent housing as quickly as possible (see section 1 .c. "Temporary housing
preferences").
Section 4 above discussed the advantages of options that would reduce the resources invested in
non-recoverable temporary housing by redirecting them to accelerated permanent solutions. Under one
scenario, costs for temporary housing could be reduced to the costs of rental subsidies and support
programs.
Assuming a homeless population of 55,000 households, 50% could be expected to participate in rent
subsidy (the SIS survey indicates 57% would choose to use this - actual registration was 87% and 42%
after one week of registration; see note 8). Sixty nine percent of the buildings are lightly or medium
damaged. Under a rapid assessment and repair of lightly damaged houses addressing 22,000 units, 40%
could return to their own buildings by winter. A program to complete permanent housing projects in the
area under the HDA would house another 10%, nearly eliminating the need for temporary construction.
Conceivably the percentages of displaced using rent subsidy, returning to repaired houses, and moving
into a permanent unit completed in the next month could each be larger.
7.    Priority Issues and Recommendations
- 156 -



7. a.   Increasing use of the range of shelter options. With a large population of homeless, and the
onset of winter in less than two months, all programs to encourage and support all options should be put
in place.
Recommendation: Rapid implementation of programs that would encourage the use of a wider range of
temporary shelter options would ultimately reduce the requirements for more expensive construction of
temporary shelter. This can be done by:
(1)    Creating incentives and encouragement to use existing housing:
a.     Rapid assessment, repair, and certification of unoccupied damaged buildings to speed
re-occupancy. Incentives could include low-cost loans or subsidization of the required engineering work.
If the homeless (those in tents) receive priority for repair, a program to support rapid repairs has the
potential to reduce the need for non-recoverable temporary housing significantly.
Social research, planning, and a public information process that will address a distrust of engineering and
construction practices must precede this program to ensure that assessments, repairs and their
certification are credible and accepted.
b.     Rental support. The existing program for rental support and repair payments is commendable for
(a) its simplicity, and (b) because it allows beneficiaries to collect payments in towns in other regions.
The use of this option can be increased significantly by:
(1)    providing incentives for second home owners to offer free space for rent,
(2)    helping to identify available rental units,
(3)    implementation of a transport assistance program.
c.     Rapid transition to permanent housing. A number of displaced could be placed in permanent
housing that is near completion. This may require targeted support of financing for completion of the
housing, and agreements with the owners to rent a large percentage of the units to displaced for up to 18
months until other permanent housing can be completed.
(2)    Convert the use of existing buildings for temporary shelter. Warehouses and other large open
buildings can be partitioned into temporary units. The availability of essential infrastructure and services
should reduce the cost of construction to half the cost of pre-fab units. In addition, these buildings are
usually located in the town, and close to employment, shops, and services. Permanent housing is also
available in other cities. More housing than necessary was built for the displaced from the Adana
earthquake. A substantial amount of housing is available in that city.
7. b.   Coordination/information. As indicated above there are a number of needs that affect the choices
now being made by those who require shelter. Many of the decisions about shelter are going forward
with inadequate information about the numbers of homeless and their needs. There is a need for
coordination between the existing programs for assistance, which will ultimately reduce the need for the
construction of temporary shelter and will help avoid the construction of too many or too few temporary
shelters.
Recommendation: Establish and empower a central unit for information and planning and direction of the
response and reconstruction. By driving programs and processes to make and implement decisions about
benefits and information, this unit would accelerate and rationalize the shelter provision process and
- 157 -



reduce the overall need for the more expensive temporary shelter options.. Among the important tasks of
the unit would be to collect accurate information and compile a central database for:
(1).   Accurate information on numbers of displaced. This information is crucial to the planning now
in process.
(2).   Refined understanding of preferences for temporary housing priorities.
(3).   Range of programs and services now being provided by NGOs, the Army, the municipalities and
the central government
The coordination unit would also have the mandate and the resources to:
(I).   Provide a process of rapid registration of displaced which could be used to determine and
distribute benefits, as well as reduce re-migration to camps. At the time of writing this process was
underway under the guidance of the GoT Social Solidarity Fund.
(2).   Initiate a program to provide accurate information to the affected on benefits and programs.
(3).   Make key decisions and provide coordination on issues crucial to the needs of the affected as well
as the efficiency of the response effort. Efficient coordination of programs which respond to needs for
health care, transport, child care, employment counseling, housing options, and job training will
ultimately encourage displaced to move away from camps and reduce the requirements for temporary
shelter built by the state.
7.c.   Program supportfor other options.
Recommendation: Rapid implementation of programs which will encourage and support the use of rent
subsidies, the movement into the shelter options above, as well as support those who are moving in with
friends and relatives.
(1).   Simplification and standardization of benefits programs. It is important that benefits not be tied
to occupancy in a camp in order to reduce the incentives to remain there. Simplicity and clarity will
encourage use of the program, reduce time spent accessing benefits and re-direct energy into employment,
reconstruction, and re-integration.
(2).  Increased support for transport in the region in order to make more distant rental housing options
feasible.
(3).  Information campaigns to assure that the displaced are aware of the support programs and
options know how to utilize the programs, and where to go to apply.
7. d.   Phasing out material relief
Recommendation: Phase out in-kind or material relief as soon as possible. Immediately transition to a
system of cash support payments which can be accessed at convenient points throughout the area.
7. e.   Avoiding delay ofpermanent shelter construction.
Recommendation: Assure that land used for temporary shelter construction does not delay the
construction of permanent replacement housing for those affected by the earthquake.
7.f    Flexible funding.
- 158-



Recommendation: By using the full range of options presented above, need for expensive temporary
housing could be nearly eliminated. Given the short time for preparation, it is impossible to know how
those who are displaced will react to the various programs available and precise allocation of funds for
each program will be difficult. For this reason, a flexible funding mechanism is important. A central
disaster fund should be established from which transfers could be made to a number of programs as their
use by beneficiaries requires. This would allow the Government of Turkey to provide a wide range of
options and provide added support to those that are successful as appropriate.
-159 -






MAP SECTION






MARMARA   EARTHQUAKE  EMERGENCY~~~~~OT h0eore s    --- ERHQAE PCETR OATO  MpDein nt ftIoWol Bn
RECO NSTRUCTIO N              (M EER)   PRO JECT~~~~~~~~prvice hnn nIiTh oudais,Coos,deointin
no oe am, octh  ~ PRVICECAITLSan ayoha ifomaioRssoEo
0   50  100  150  200  250  300  350  400 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      tisma d nt mpy,onth pntof~
KILOMEIERS ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ st a os. ecse         ~        AINLCAIA                     h WrdBn Gop n jdmn 
~~~~~~~~~~,C,    c~~dt  ntee  onoyRVRSo   h   ea eau   faytortr,a 
Mediterranean    Se~~~August,ooe/odtmnn'n
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nvial ttutnoPOIC  ONAISayodrueto notneo                                                                            o
7.4 Ricktor valu ~ ~    ~        ~        opinin                   NERAIOA  OUDRIS              enkbonama 
ou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                       AnN' 'I
Z-9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a



