Report No. PID8416
Project Information Document
Project Name                     Turkey-Marmara Earthquake Emergency
Reconstruction (MEER) Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           BI - Institutional Development;
FS - Financial Sector Development;
IL - Small Scale Enterprise;
UH - Urban Housing;
WU - Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       TRP068368
Borrower                         REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency              UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
Project Implementation Unit
Ms. Nuran Ercan, Director
Bilkent Plaza Bl Blok, Kat 1
06530 Bilkent-Ankara, Turkey
tel: (90)(312)266-7764, 266-7774
fax: (90)(312)266-7733
email: hdapcu@escortnet.com
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           November 4, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         October 18, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 16, 1999
Background
On August 17, 1999 an earthquake measuring 7.4 on the Richter scale devastated
the Marmara region of Turkey. Areas of peak damage include the seven provinces
of Kocaeli (Izmit, Golcuk), Sakarya (Adapazari), Yalova, Bolu, Istanbul, Bursa
and Eskisehir. Over 17,000 lives have been lost, several hundred thousand
people remain homeless in the region, and Turkey's industrial heartland has
been damaged. International support for Turkey for the immediate relief effort
has been rapid and generous. However, a major reconstruction effort and
recovery plan are now needed, in addition to a mechanism to reduce the costs
of future natural disasters in the country.
A preliminary assessment was undertaken by the Bank to outline the likely
impact of the earthquake on the economy and the cost of reconstruction and
recovery.
The damages are estimated at US$1,100 - 3,000 million for the housing sector,
around US$70 million for municipal infrastructure, around US$78 million for
roads, bridges and highways, around US$38 million for telecom, approximately
US$60 million for power transmission and distribution, and US$1,100 - 2,600
million for enterprises. Small and medium enterprises have been heavily
damaged, and many of these supply inputs to large companies in the area.



The current account deficit is expected to widen by some US$900 million in
1999 under the immediate impact of the quake and by some US$2 billion (one
percent of GNP) in 2000. The total fiscal burden arising from the earthquake
is estimated to be in the range of US$1.8-2.2 billion spread over the next 16
months. The largest direct cost to the budget, estimated to be in the range of
US$740 million to US$1.2 billion, will come from reconstruction and repair of
damage to the housing stock of the region. Costs from infrastructure
replacement and rehabilitation are estimated to add a further US$450 million.
Revenue losses and credit programs represent one third of total estimated
fiscal costs of the earthquake, totaling US$1.3 billion. Additional costs are
expected from emergency assistance to the population and associated
compensation for loss of life and disability, totaling an estimated US$540
million. This figure includes costs for temporary shelters.
In addition to the physical and social damages, the gravity of the event
pointed out the need for upgrading the existing emergency response system, the
lack of effective enforcement of the Turkey's building codes and the
inadequate coverage of earthquake insurance in the housing sector.
Bank's response
At the request of the Government of Turkey (GOT), the Bank has prepared a two
stage program. The immediate response was to approve amendments to eight
existing loans to the Republic of Turkey (Turkey Emergency Flood and
Earthquake Recovery Project, Loan No. 4388-TU; Road Improvement and Safety
Project, Loan No. 4048-TU; TEK Restructuring Project, Loan No. 3345-1-TU;
National Transmission Grid Project, Loan No. 4344-TU; Employment and Training
Project, Loan No. 3541-TU; Basic Education Project, Loan No. 4355-TU; Primary
Health Care Services Project, Loan No. 4201-TU; Health II Project, Loan No.
3802-TU). The purpose of the amendments was to reallocate funds in the amount
of US$267 to provide immediate assistance for the restoration of housing,
infrastructure, health, employment, training and educational services in the
Marmara region.
As a second stage of its assistance program, the Bank has prepared two
operations: an Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan (EERL, US$252 million) that
aims to assist Turkey to respond quickly to the earthquake through financing
of private sector import requirements and budgetary support for priority
actions under the Government's recovery program, and a Marmara Earthquake
Emergency Reconstruction project (MEER, total cost US$737.11 million, of which
US$505 million is Bank financed) for the reconstruction of the areas affected
by the earthquake. The MEER is a large operation aimed at financing housing
and physical infrastructure reconstruction as well as interventions that will
contain damages in the case of a similar event. The MEER project is part of
the comprehensive Framework Program that has been prepared by the Bank in
cooperation with UNDP, the European Union, other IFIs and other donors.
Objectives
Framework Program. At the request of and in cooperation with the Government of
Turkey (GOT) and other international partners, the Bank has prepared a
Framework Program as a comprehensive response to the August 17 Marmara
earthquake. The Bank-financed elements of this program comprise the Marmara
Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project (MEER). Implementation of the
-2 -



Framework Program is supported by the Bank and other co-financiers as follows:
Framework Program                Indicative Costs (US$M)     Main Source
of Finance
Component A:  Disaster                   419.16              World Bank and GOT
Response System and Risk
Mitigation
Sub-component Al:   National             110.17              World Bank and GOT
Emergency Management
System
Sub-component A2:   Disaster             273.00              World Bank and GOT
Insurance Scheme
Sub-component A3:   Land Use             11.78               World Bank and GOT
Planning and Enforcement of
Construction Codes
Sub-component A4:   Cadastre             24.21               World Bank and GOT
Renovation and Land Management
Component B:  Trauma                     6.89                World Bank and GOT
Program for Adults
Component C:  Construction               293.32              World Bank and GOT
of Permanent Housing in Bolu,
Kocaeli and Yalova
Component D:  Project                    12.69               World Bank and GOT
Management
Component E:  Business                   109.72              Other co-financiers
Rehabilitation
Component F:  Construction of            177.07              Other co-financiers
Permanent Housing in Bolu,
Sakarya, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa
and Eskisehir
Component G:  Repair of                  632.12              Other co-financiers
Existing Housing Stock and
Healthcare Facilities
Component H:  Rebuilding                 139.73              Other co-financiers
and Repair of Roads, Water
supply Systems, Wastewater
Systems, Power Distribution
Networks
Front-end Fee                            5.05
Total Program Costs                      1795.75             of which, US$505
World Bank
-3-



Financing for MEER
All co-financiers and the GOT have requested that the components supported by
non-Bank sources be implemented in accordance with the procedures identified
by the Bank for procurement, disbursement and financial management. They also
requested that the Bank-financed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) be the
central agency responsible for the realization of the overall Framework
Program. Each financing partner is responsible for the outcome, monitoring and
supervision of the respective sub-components, as outlined above.
Objectives. The main objectives of the Framework Program are to help restore
the living conditions in the region of Turkey that was affected by the August
17, 1999 Marmara earthquake, support economic recovery and resumption of
growth, and develop an institutional framework for disaster risk management
and mitigation. To achieve this objective, the Framework Program will help the
Government: (i) upgrade the disaster response systems, (ii) rehabilitate the
damaged business sector and reduce the social effects of the earthquake, and
(iii) reconstruct and repair affected housing and municipal infrastructure. In
the context of this comprehensive Program, the Bank will finance specific
components, which constitute the MEER project, and will mainly focus on
building a sustainable national disaster response and risk mitigation system
as a way to reduce the impact of future earthquakes on the country, in part by
establishing a disaster insurance scheme, improving land use management and
enforcement of building codes, and developing a cadastre system in the region,
and on reestablishing normal living conditions in the areas hit the earthquake
by supporting a trauma program for adults and constructing new permanent
houses.
The MEER Project and its components:
Component A - Disaster Response System and Risk Mitigation (US$419.16 million)
Sub-component Al: Emergency Management and Response System (US$110.17
million). The objective of this sub-component is to create a comprehensive
emergency management structure that focuses on:
- the coordination and integration of risk reduction strategies (activities
that reduce or eliminate the risk to human life and property;
- preparedness (pre-disaster activities to develop and maintain capabilities
to respond rapidly and effectively to emergencies, including planning,
training, and public awareness);
- response (activities to rapidly assess and contain the effects of
disasters, provide support to the victims, and deliver emergency services);
and
- recovery (damage assessment, activities to restore damaged facilities and
equipment, and support the economic and social revitalization of affected
areas).
This sub-component will finance the design and implementation of a
restructured emergency management and response system. This will be achieved
through institutional strengthening activities at each level, including
activities at the municipal level for disaster prevention, mitigation,
planning and public awareness. In particular, the sub-component will finance
the development of: (i) a strategic plan to create and establish a
- 4 -



comprehensive emergency management agency equipped with an operations center
and communications and data networks, and a national earthquake mitigation
plan; (ii) a comprehensive emergency management training and exercise program,
and a search and rescue capacity building program; (iii) pilot activities to
enhance the municipal emergency management system; (iv) the replication of the
pilot activities on a regional scale; and (v) a public awareness campaign on
appropriate measures to be taken before, during and after an earthquake.
Sub-component A2: Disaster Insurance Scheme (US$273.00 million). The principal
development objective of this sub-component is to support the Government
Earthquake Insurance Program with the view of establishing and expanding
national catastrophic risk management and risk transfer capabilities. To meet
these objectives, the sub-component will create an insurance mechanism, which
will make liquidity readily available to real estate tax paying owners of
residential dwellings destroyed or damaged by an earthquake for the purpose of
their repairing or replacement; reduce government fiscal exposure and the risk
to the national economy due to major earthquakes; ensure the financial
solvency of the Insurance Pool after all but the most catastrophic of events,
such as those in excess of the Marmara earthquake; and reduce government
financial dependence on the Bank and other donors' financial assistance in the
aftermath of major earthquakes. To reach these objectives, the project will
finance two major activities: (i) technical assistance to the General
Directorate of Insurance (GDI) in establishing a Turkish Catastrophic
Insurance Pool (TCIP) and ensuring its operational efficiency and financial
soundness for the first five years of its existence; and (ii) initial
capitalization of TCIP through a contingent loan facility.
Sub-component A3: Land Use Planning and Enforcement of Construction Codes
(US$11.78 million). This sub-component's objective is to reduce the
vulnerability of the Marmara Earthquake Region to natural hazards and future
disaster losses in Turkey. To achieve this general objective, the sub-
component will support: (i) the review of ongoing modifications in the current
legal system and additional modifications as required, and (ii) the
strengthening of the municipal capability to regulate, plan and implement
disaster resistant development. In particular, this sub-component will finance
two studies on the Disaster Law and the Tender Law, as well as a comparative
evaluation of operational practices in the mortgage market of selective
countries, key laws and practices that influence site selection for buildings
and their construction, and that are therefore, inherently effective in
mitigating future disasters. In addition, a study of the building code
development process in Turkey will be financed, as well as a series of
stakeholder seminars on the topic of "Implementation of Development Regulation
for Disaster Reduction and Public Safety". It will also finance pilot projects
in selected municipalities to assist planning and building departments in
developing risk-based municipal master plans, establishing means for effective
building code implementation, developing municipal regulations to ensure that
appropriate professional licensing procedures are followed, developing
programs for the evaluation of existing buildings, creating municipal
ordinances that mandate removal of illegal structures, and creating mechanisms
to incorporate effective community participation in the planning process. The
pilot municipal projects will include technical assistance for hazard and
vulnerability mapping. A program of targeted training for key decision-makers
in the development process will be provided on a national scale.
Sub-component A4: Cadastre Renovation and Land Management (US$24.21 million).
- 5 -



The primary objective of this sub-component is to establish a land information
system to support the reconstruction and development of the Marmara Earthquake
Region (Marmara Earthquake Region Land Information System - MERLIS). In
particular, the sub-component will support activities to: (i) supply current
and reliable land information to cope with the post-earthquake situation, and
update and improve the obsolete registers and maps; (ii) facilitate land
supply operations, with emphasis on housing schemes and the overall
improvement of the land market. To achieve this, the sub-component will
finance production of maps to be used as source of current information for
inventory and immediate planning, renovation of cadastre registers and maps,
and the creation of a database of cadastral information for the Marmara region
to help the reconstruction and future development of the region. To facilitate
land supply operations, the sub-component will strengthen the General
Directorate of State Land in the Marmara Earthquake Region in the form of
increased operational capacity of field offices, and institutional
improvements.
Component B - Trauma Program for Adults (US$6.89 million). This component will
finance the development of a trauma program for adults to complement the
UNICEF/Ministry of Education program for children financed under the
reallocation of the Basic Education Loan. The objectives are to contribute to
the immediate reduction of the negative effects on health and functional
ability among adults affected by the earthquake, including the restoration of
normalized living and working conditions in the affected area, support the
strengthening of community mental health services, including trauma related
work, in the affected region and later across the whole of Turkey, ensuring
that the whole country is better prepared for future disasters, and to support
the reconstruction of working life and the reinsertion of adults into the
workforce in the earthquake zone. This will be achieved through: (i) the
establishment of community mental health centers in Izmit, Adapazari, Golcuk
and Yalova, staffed by a broad base of mental health professionals trained in
specialized care for trauma victims, and able to provide long term service
delivery of more generalized mental health services. This activity, undertaken
in coordination with existing institutions in the region, will include a
public awareness campaign relating to mental health issues and preparedness
for disasters, and a training/information program in the later stages for
spreading the knowledge across Turkey; and (ii) the establishment of a program
for psychological and organizational support to organizations and businesses
affected by the earthquake.
Component C - Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu, Kocaeli and Yalova
(US$293.32 million). The principle objective of this component is to assist
the Government of Turkey in reconstructing permanent housing in the urban and
rural areas affected by the earthquake. The eligibility criteria will follow
the provisions of the current Disaster Law. In addition, specific criteria
have been adopted for this project: assistance under this project is limited
to collapsed and heavily damaged rural housing and urban multi family units;
investments must be implemented under controlled and sound construction
practices, and utilize appropriate cost effective design standards which
protect against future seismic risk; investments must comply with
environmental standards; investments must be implemented in a timely manner.
The component will finance technical assistance, design, supervision, training
and investments to replace collapsed or heavily damaged household units in the
urban areas of the provinces of Bolu and Kocaeli. The cost per unit is
estimated around US$20,000 including on-site infrastructure. The component
- 6 -



will finance the reconstruction of about 10,000 units in urban areas. The
Borrower is responsible for providing an update of the damage assessment and
eligibility estimates two weeks prior to the signing of the contracts. Based
on this update, the Bank will review the total number of housing units to be
constructed in order to mitigate the risk of over-investment.
In the case of rural housing, the beneficiaries will undertake the
construction activities under the supervision of independent consultants, and
purchase the materials. Construction training will be provided, through which
the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction
of seismic resistant buildings. In addition, standard designs will be
provided, that cannot be modified without the approval of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The supervision will be provided either through the
consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, including
staff of local offices, as appropriate. Under this activity, 2,000 household
units will be reconstructed in the most affected areas in the provinces of
Kocaeli and Yalova. Only beneficiaries identified before the end of April 2000
will be eligible for investments in rural housing reconstruction.
Component D - Project Management (US$12.69 million). This component will
finance the costs of expanding and maintaining the existing Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), set up for the TEFER project, and its local offices
during the whole implementation period.
Monitoring and Evaluation. The MEER project will benefit from the work of a
social scientist to be hired by the PIU as permanent staff to constantly
monitor and evaluate the impact of the program on the targeted population. In
addition, to maximize learning, and to respond rapidly to lessons as they
emerge, the project will be monitored and evaluated in two stages towards mid-
term and towards the end of the implementation period. This monitoring and
evaluation exercise will (i) provide information about the needs and responses
of beneficiaries and other community members, (ii) give feedback regarding
project design, management and implementation, (iii) evaluate direct project
impacts, and (iv) assess the roles of cooperating groups and the effectiveness
of the trauma relief program. Results of the monitoring and evaluation
exercise will be broadly disseminated within the project area and among
stakeholders and the public at large. The objectives of the monitoring and
evalaution are first to generate new information about beneficiaries and
stakeholders needed to modify project components or approaches, and second to
monitor project implementation and evaluate project outcomes and impact.
As part of the Framework Program, the following components will be financed by
other co-financiers:
Component E - Business Rehabilitation (US$109.72 million). The primary
objective is to rehabilitate businesses damaged by the earthquake, with
emphasis on small shops and service establishments. In particular, the
component aims at reestablishing the small commerce sector that is an
important part of civil society, and creating employment through the operation
of small businesses. The component will focus on retail businesses, i.e. shops
and other small business establishments such as bakers, grocers, barbers etc.,
and small manufacturing and service enterprises, i.e. businesses with fewer
than 10 employees but larger than the family run shop. It will finance three
activities: (i) construction cooperatives of small shop-keepers and owners of
service establishments to build groups of shops or small scale industrial
- 7 -



sites; (ii) credit cooperatives of small businesses to finance replacement of
movable assets; (iii) credit for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of
premises of unions of small businesses, and grant financing for the
development of a system of disaster preparedness, and for a public relations
campaign connected with the entire program.
Component F - Construction of Permanent Housing in Bolu, Sakarya, Yalova,
Istanbul, Bursa and Eskisehir (US$177.07 million). The principle objective of
this component is to assist the Government of Turkey in reconstructing
permanent housing in the urban and rural areas affected by the earthquake. The
eligibility criteria will follow the provisions of the current Disaster Law.
In addition, specific criteria have been adopted for this project: assistance
under this project is limited to collapsed and heavily damaged rural housing
and urban multi family units; investments must be implemented under controlled
and sound construction practices, and utilize appropriate cost effective
design standards which protect against future seismic risk; investments must
comply with environmental standards; investments are likely to be implemented
in a timely manner. The component will finance investments to replace
collapsed or heavily damaged household units in the urban areas of the
provinces of Sakarya, Yalova, Istanbul, Bursa and Eskisehir. The cost per unit
is estimated around US$20,000 including on-site infrastructure. The component
will finance the reconstruction of about 30 percent of the total number of
collapsed and heavily damaged units in urban areas. The Borrower is
responsible for providing an update of the damage assessment and eligibility
estimates two weeks prior to the signing of the contracts. Based on this
update, the co-financiers will review the total number of housing units to be
constructed in order to mitigate the risk of over-investments.
In the case of rural housing, the beneficiaries will undertake the
construction activities under the supervision of independent consultants, and
purchase the materials. Construction training will be provided, through which
the beneficiaries will gain qualification and experience in the construction
of seismic resistant buildings. In addition, standard designs will be
provided, that cannot be modified without the approval of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The supervision will be provided either through the
consultants to be employed by the PIU or through the PIU staff, including
staff of local offices, as appropriate. Under this activity, 4,000 household
units will be reconstructed in the most affected areas including the provinces
of Bolu and Sakarya. Only beneficiaries identified before the end of April
2000 will be eligible for investments in rural housing reconstruction.
Component G - Repair of the Existing Housing Stock and Healthcare Facilities
(US$632.12 million). The principal aim of this component is to provide
assistance to the GOT in repairing the existing housing stock and healthcare
facilities damaged during the earthquake. This component will finance the
structural repair of about 54,500 medium damaged housing units, which
represents about 90t of the damaged units, including the design and the
supervision of the repair works. The structural rehabilitation component
covers the repair of buildings in rural and urban areas which are assessed as
medium damaged by inspection teams of the Ministry of Public Works. Structures
which can be repaired with costs that range between 30 and 50 percent of total
replacement costs are classified as medium damage. Based on this definition 45
percent of the replacement cost is used as an average number for the estimated
rehabilitation cost per housing unit. Consultant services are financed for the
inspection and assessment of damages including visual and structural testing.
- 8 -



In addition, the service is required for preparation of designs, technical
specification, bidding documents, and supervision of structural rehabilitation
works.
In addition, the component covers the repair of hospitals and health
facilities covered by the social insurance program (SSK), under the
supervision of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MLSS)
Component H - Rebuilding and Repair of Roads, Water, Wastewater, Electricity
Distribution Networks (US$139.73 million). The objective of the component is
to restore essential infrastructure in the municipalities and provinces that
have been devastated by the August 17, 1999 earthquake. The component includes
technical assistance, design, supervision and investments to restore essential
infrastructure at the municipal level. It finances repairs and reconstruction
of water supply, sewerage and storm water systems, wastewater treatment
plants, electric power distribution systems, and municipal roads and bridges
in the areas most damaged by the earthquake. Minor damages to infrastructure
as well as damages that have already been repaired by the related authorities
are not covered under this operation.
Co-financing. The Government of Turkey is in the process of finalizing
agreements to secure the total financing required for the above described
Framework Program. The Framework Program and the co-financing have been
organized in such a way that signing of the co-financing agreements will not
affect the overall achievement of the MEER project's objectives.
Implementation
Project Implementation Unit. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is
responsible for the overall implementation of the project. It is established
within the Prime Minister's office, and managed by a Director who reports
directly to the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister. The Director is
responsible for hiring the staff of the PIU subject to pre-approval by the
Bank. The PIU implements the project under the overall policy guidance of a
Steering Committee (see below) and in close coordination with related
Ministries and Agencies.
The PIU serves as a secretariat to the Steering Committee, prepares the
working documents for the meetings of the Steering Committee, and submits
quarterly progress reports to the Prime Minister, the Steering Committee and
the Bank. The PIU will establish local offices in the Marmara region, prepare
bidding documents and contracts for construction works, goods and consultancy
services, and monitor the compliance with Turkish and World Bank environmental
standards.
Steering Committee. The Steering Committee (SC) is chaired by the Minister of
Public Works and Settlement (MPWS), and consist of the State Minister
responsible for the Housing Development Agency, the State Minister responsible
for Social Services, the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Minister of
Interior, the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister, the Undersecretary of
Treasury, the Undersecretary of the State Planning Organization (SPO), the
Governors of Istanbul, Kocaeli, Adapazari, Yalova and Bolu, and Mayors of the
relevant cities and towns.
The Committee will be responsible for providing advice and policy guidance to
- 9-



the Undersecretary of the Prime Minister overseeing the PIU. It will also
review quarterly progress reports, approve proposals for reallocation of funds
prepared by the PIU, and submit them to the Bank for "no-objection".
Local Offices. In order to streamline and effectively manage implementation of
the Project, the PIU will establish at least three local offices in the areas
most severely affected by the earthquake. The PIU local offices (PIU-LO) will
be set up in Istanbul, Izmit, Yalova, and/or Adapazari. These local offices
will closely monitor the implementation of the project in their respective
areas.
Sustainability
Factors critical to the sustainability of the project include strong
motivation on the part of national, regional and local governments to
implement quickly earthquake recovery and risk reduction measures to enhance
public health and safety and to limit future economic losses. The improved
enforcement of quality standards and the introduction of building codes will
contribute to the sustainability of the project in an earthquake prone
country. The introduction of liability and compulsory property insurance will
shift the financial burden of natural disasters to the Turkish Catastrophic
Insurance Pool, which in turn will arrange for risk transfer to the global
reinsurance and capital markets, and will build up national earthquake
reserves. The emphasis on professionalizing the trauma counseling services
within existing local organizations instead of either establishing new ones or
focusing on strengthening the volunteer services is designed to ensure long
term sustainability.
Contact Point:           Task Manager
Piotr M. Wilczynski
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (1-202)473-2513
Fax: (1-202)614-0696
Email: pwilczynski@worldbank.org
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending December 3, 1999.
- 10 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID).
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



