Document of                     FILE Copy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2666-KO
REPORT AND RECOMIENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAI BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KOREA ELECTRIC COIfPANY
WITH THE GUARNATEE OF TIIE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR THE
COJEONG POWER PROJECT
November 29, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =  Won (W) 485
W 1,000         =  US$2.06
US$1 million   =  W 0.485 billion
W 1 million    =  US$ 2,062
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                              =  3.28 Eeet (ft) = 100 centimeters (cm)
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           =  2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (sq km)               =  0.38 square mnile (sq mi)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                     =  35.315 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 cubic meter per minute (cu m/min)   =  264.2 gallons per minute
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (metric) (t = 1,000 kg)            =  1.100 short tons (sh.tons)
1 kilowatt (kW)                          =  1,000 Watts  103 W)
1 Megawatt (MW)                          =  1,000 kW (10  kW)
1 Gigawatt (GW)                          =  1,000 MW (l06kW)
1 kilowatt-hour (kWh)                    =  1,000 Watt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                        1,000 Megawatt-hours (l06kWh)
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                     =  3.968 Britishi thermal units (Btu)
1 atmosphere (atm)                           14.70 pounds per sq inch =
1.033 kg/sq cm
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
MER         -  Ministry of Energy and Resources
MOF         -  Ministry of Finance
MOC         -  Ministry of Construction
MOST        -  Ministry of Science and Technology
EPB         -  Economic Planning Board
KDI         -  Korea Development Institute
KECO        -  Korea Electric Company
ISWACO      -  Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
EDF         -  Electricite de France
KVA         -  Kilovolt-ampere
OC          -  Degree centigrade
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



rp r-T7m,    }!WF 'N1 y
KOREA
GOJEONG POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Korea Electric Company (KECO)
Guarantor:                 The Republic of Korea
Amount:                     $115 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
at 7.95% p.a.
Project
Description:             The project constitutes the next logical step in
KECO's power development program to meet the load
growth up to 1986. It would provide for the ins-
tallation of two 500 MW coal/oil-fired units and
associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system
and storage area; a fuel unloading dock for ships
of up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping
station and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh
water to the station; and a 160 km double circuit,
345 KV transmission line between the power station
and Seoul, and related terminal substations and
management consulting services. The project will
enable KECO to meet part of the increased demand of
the interconnected system from 1984. It is expected
that the project will help to improve KECO's
planning, organization, finances and the structure
of electricity rates. An important benefit is the
introduction of advanced technology to Korea,
through the participation of local manufacturers in
association with foreign companies, in the manu-
facture of some of the main equipment. No major
risks are expected to be encountered during the
construction of the project.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Prolect Cost:                                   ------- ($ million) --------
Local       Foreign    Total
Generating facilities             300.34       145.98    446.32
Transmission facilities            44.53         6.30      50.83
Organization and management
study                            0.15         0.60       0.75
Base Cost                     345.02       152.88    497.90
Physical contingencies             28.25         8.89      37.14
Price contingencies                91.57        30.72    122.29
Subtotal                      464.84       192.49    657.33
Total                         464.84        192.49    657.33
Financing Plan:  The proposed Bank loan of $115 million would cover 60% of the
foreign exchange cost. The remaining foreign exchange costs
would be financed by export credits and a syndicated loan.
KECO would provide $465 million to cover the local costs.
Estimated Disbursement
from Bank Loan:                          -     …     ($ million) ----------
Bank FY                 1981    1982    1983   1984  1985
Annual                  21.0   46.9    35.1   10.5    1.5
Cummulative             21.0   67.9   103.0  113.5  115.0
Rate of Return:             21%
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 2677-KO, dated November 20, 1979



REPORT ANFD RECOMMENMATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIOtIAL BAIKY FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KOREA ELECTRIC COMPANY WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR THE GOJEONG POWER PPOJECT
1.         I submit the fol:Lowing report and recomrmendation on a proposed loan
to the Korea Electric Company (KECO), with the Guarantee of the Republic of
Korea, for the equivalent of $115 nillion to help finance KECO's power devel-
opment program to meet the load growth up to 1986. The loan will have a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7.95% p.a.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Papid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SECM79-390, dated May 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.         During 1977 and 1978, the growth of GNP in real terms outstripped
the target of 9.5% p.a. postulated in the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81).
As a result of a rapid increase in domestic demand, the rate of increase of
real GNP accelerated from 10.3% in 1977 to 11.6% in 1978.  For the first
time in many years, the increase in domestic demand for manufactured goods
exceeded the increase in mnanufactured exports. This increase in domestic
demand, fueled by substantial increases in private construction and
equipment investment, resulted in capacity shortages for some essential
items, and a speculative investment mood. For the first time, a shortage of
certain types of skilled labor became a matter of greater concern than
unemployment, which declined substantially during 1978.  For the third year
in a row, there was a substantial increase in real wages in the manu-
facturing sector, which was in excess of the increase in labor productivity.
There was also an increase in the rate of inflation; during 1978, the
wholesale prices increased by about 127 as compared to 97 in 1977, and
consumer prices increased by about 14%, compared to a 10% increase in 1977.
4.         Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets,
but after increasing by 4:3% in 1976 and 26% in 1977, the real growth of
goods and services slowed to 18% in 1978. On the other hand, as a result of
a substantial increase in the demand for imported capital goods, total
irmports increased more rapidly than exports, resulting in a sizeable trade
deficit. However, overseas construction activity continued to expand
rapidly during 1978, increasing from $3.5 billion in 1977 to $8.1 billion in
1978. Although the receipts from these contracts resulted in a substantial
surplus in the invisible account, a current account deficit of about
$1 billion emerged as compared with the surplus of about 912 million



-2-
Powever, in view of the need to promote allocative efficiency and
to counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978
a for-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to
f'irternational capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment,
*l(ead of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard
term- during 1974/75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly
rmvg prices of its major imports, particularly petroleum and foodgrains,
.S well as the international recession.
Major Trends and Economic Policy for 1979
5.        Economic policy for 1979 was formulated on the premise that
inflation and rapid increases in wages were weakening the international
conpetitiveness of Korean exports which could jeopardize sustained rapid
economic growth. Hence, the major emphasis was on stabilization. The
stabilization program has four major components. First, the tight monetary
and fiscal policy designed to reduce excess liquidity in the economy.
Secondly, measures designed to correct structural imbalances caused by
inflation. These include the adjustment of investment priorities in favor
of the industries producing necessities for domestic consumption, the
encouragement of non-grain production in agriculture, investment to
modernize the marketing and distribution network, and greater investment in
public transportation. Thirdly, measures specifically designed to create
greater competition in the economy, including the deregulation of prices on
a large nuimber of commodities, the removal of barriers to entry of new firms
in some industries, and accelerated import liberalization. In addition,
a set of measures designed to assist the poorest segments of the population
who had been hardest hit by price increases were introduced which include
the expansion of public work programs, the exemption from the payment of
tuition by children of low-income families and some direct cash payments.
Although the effects on the economy of this last set of measures are not
anti-inflationary, the Government considered them necessary for reasons of
equity.
6.        While the stabilization program has had considerable success in
containing domestically generated inflation, it has been overwhelmed by
the increase in import prices, particularly of oil. During the first
eight months of 1979, wholesale food prices increased by 6% and wholesale
consumer goods prices by 9%, but the price of raw materials, which are
mainly imported, increased by 34% and the price of capital goods by 12%.
The Government has boldly combined its stabilization efforts with a
reduction of price controls and removed most of the suppressed inflation
which had been built up. Most government-administered prices were
increased to realistic levels, including transport rates, coal prices,
petroleum product prices and those of a range of industrial products.
Consequently, wholesale prices are expected to increase by around 25%
and consumer prices by about 22% in 1979, which would be more than
double the targeted figures.
7.        As was to be expected, the Government's stabilization policies
have had some impact on output and employment. But exogenous factors such
as a weakening of the world economy and an increase in protectionism in
the developed countries have exacerbated the problems resulting from a



-3 -
weakening of Korea's export competitiveness. While the momentum of economic
growth in 1978 continued in to 1979, a substantial increase in inventories
in the early part of the year was a symptom of the impending slackening of
economic growth. Furthermore, there has been a deterioration in its terms
of trade in the current year due to higher import prices. However, the
pragmatic and effective measures the Government has taken appear to be
paying off. The upsurge in imports seems to be decelerating, resulting in
no small measure from the Government's energy conservation measures which
are proving to be effective. Exports, on the other hand, are proving to be
rather more buoyant in the latter part of the year and it is expected that
export value will be close to the target of $15.5 billion. As a result of
the substantial increase in the value of imports, it is expected that the
trade deficit would be of the order of $4 billion. However, as a result of
a surplus of about $1 billion in invisible trade, the current account
deficit would be about $3 billion, representing about 6% of GNP. The
financing of this should be manageable.
Longer-Term Prospects
8.        The recent assassination of President Park Chung Hee has
understandably raised questions about the future of political and economic
stability in Korea. It would not be an overstatement to say that President
Park was the architect of modern Korea. However, as the Deputy Prime
Minister and Minister of Economic Planning recently stated "one-man, however
great, could not have mobilized this nation of 37 million people unless the
people had been united in the task at hand; and that the Korean people have
now attained sufficient maturity not only to follow the wishes of their
fallen leader but also to adapt themselves to the new circumstances". He
stressed that the basic directions of the outward looking development
strategy which has served Korea so well will remain unchanged, that the
stabilization policy will proceed as planned, and that Korea will continue
to pursue the high growth path. Indeed, Korea's economic development over
the past 15 years has provided a broad and firm base for dealing with the
problems of the eighties, a base which has its foundation in the well-
developed Korean institutions both in the public and the private sectors.
9.        There appears to be a consensus that Korea should continue to
pursue the high growth path, that greater stress should be placed on social
development and that there was a need to effect greater financial
liberalization and to free the private sector from the reins of Government
control. The maintenance of a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to
achieve the objectives of greater equity, of ensuring that the fruits of
rapid development are available to the mass of the people. However, at the
new threshold at which the Korean economy has arrived, there is a need to
redirect efforts towards reconciling growth with equity. In order to
achieve a better rural/urban balance, the Government has reiterated its
support of the rural development programs, the generation of off-farm
employment opportunities and of programs to improve agricultural
productivity. For interpersonal equity, more resources would have to be
devoted to the educational sector with increased emphasis on improving the
lower income group's access to the system. As indicated earlier, to help
the poor, the Government has moved to strengthen programs focussed directly
on the target groups and away from the former reliance on general subsidies,
whose effects tend to be relatively diffused.



- 4 -
10.       Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been
one of the highest among the developing countries. In the early phases of
its growth process, Korea economized on social and urban development
expenditures, particularly in transportation and housing. With the rapid
growth of household incomes and the concentration of population in the major
urban centers, the demand for urban services is rising rapidly. The
Government is, therefore, giving greater emphasis to programs for providing
increasing housing, particularly for the low-income groups, and for dealing
with the problems of urban transportation. The Bank hopes to play a role in
support of these programs.
11.       A further dimension to the problem of harmonizing growth with
reasonable price stability and equity is the need to review the whole
nexus of policies connected with credit, the interest rate structure,
subsidies, resource mobilization, capital market development and financial
liberalization. These aspects are beiug reviewed by the Bank's financial
sector mission, which has just returned from the field.
12.       Although the assassination of President Park could be construed as
the end of an era, one in which he kept a firm and guiding hand on the "ship
of state," the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean economy,
the diligence of its labor force, the efficiency of its economic managers
and entrepreneurs, and the massive investment in the last two years, all
combine to suggest that Korea will be able to tackle its emerging problems
and sustain its rapid growth in the eighties notwithstanding the change in
leadership. As the Deputy Prime Minister recently pointed out, the rapidly
increasing and skilled labor force, the potential to raise productivity by
adopting new and advanced technology and the shift of labor from traditional
sectors where productivity is low to the modern sectors where productivity
is high provide the sources of growth in the eighties. Furthermore,
although the international economic environment is somewhat unfavorable,
Korea continues to exploit the opportunities to expand trade and other
forms of economic activities wherever these could be found and is seeking
to complement its external activities by undertaking improvements in
housing, mass transportation, education and health services, which some
Korean economists refer to as "the second engine of growth".
External Capital Requirements
13.       Despite the strong possibility that the growth rate of GNP will be
slower than was originally forecast for 1979 and 1980, the external capital
requirements during the period will be markedly higher than originally
expected. Amortization requirements are estimated to be about $1.5 billion
in 1979 and $1.7 billion in 1980. Allowing for the augmentation of its
foreign exchange reserves (about $1 billion annually), the gross requirements
of external capital will be about $5.5 billion in 1979 and $5.7 billion in
1980, assuming that current account deficits of about $3 billion will be
incurred in each of the years. Taking into account committed but undisbursed
medium and long-term loans, new commitments of about $5-6 billion would be
required in each of the years.
14.       While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected
to derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such



- 5 -
sources, the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that
it will have to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from
official sources, including Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized
that the higher anticipated levels of external capital inflow (relative to
the Fourth Plan targets) are a consequence of its higher investment rates
rather than a shortfall in the domestic savings rate. Thus, about 90% of
Korea's investment will continue to be financed from domestic savings. The
ratio of foreign savings to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties,
following the restructuring and readjustment planned for the next three
years. Servicing of the debt should not pose difficulties given the present
debt service ratio and the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided
that the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high
interest rates is not excessive. The projected ratio of debt service
payments to total export earnings is expected to remain in the range of
12-15% up to the mid-eighties, and to decline steadily thereafter.
PIART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       As of September 30, 1979, Korea had received 45 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,526.4
million in loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account
cancellations and the refinacing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank
Loan). As of that date, $947.8 million of the total Bank lending remained
undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the
past two years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA
Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. As irLdicated in the notes, progress on project
implementation is generally satisfactory.
16.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea had been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrializat,ion; (h) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth threough raising incomes and improving the quality of
life in the rural areas.
17.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 million,
the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small and Medium Industrv
Bank $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The
primary beneficiaries oE these loans have not been the development banks,
but the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones,
which have been provided with financing through the financial intermediaries.
Thlis has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial
sector, but has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improve-
ments and of the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan
of $80 million for a Heavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in
achieving the structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is
necessary to ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy. A
recently approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate and support



-6-
the development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics
industry.
18.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industriali-
zation has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Covernment's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1062, has
played an important role in these developments.  Some S340 million has been
provided for six railway projects designed to increase the railroad's capacity
and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5 million have been made
for highway construction and paving of high priority sections of the national
network and for a countrywide maintenance organization; and two loans amount-
ing to $147 million have been provided for the expansion of port facilities
at Busan, the premier port, and Hlugho, primarily for improving coal handling
facilities.
19.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
20.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen agri-
cultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in the
country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Yorea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent S325.5 million
for the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. Recently a 9125 million loan was provided by the Bank
to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system.
21.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors on September 11,
1979.



-7 -
22.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
September 30, 1979, enterecd into 24 commitments, totalling $6P.1 million
(net of participations and cancellations). Yorea's industrial development
programs have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a
situation which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the
past few years.
23.       A primary objectLve of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.  The basic issue is
whether Korea can deepen and diversify its industrial structure to the extent
necessary to ensure the attainment of its export targets. Lending to industry
will be diversified by the provision of a loan to the Citizens National Bank
in support of the small enterprises as well as a loan for a second machinery
project, which will provide financial and technical assistance to small- and
medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to introduce
RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs of
industrial development. In addition to the loan for the Electronics Techno-
logy Project which was approved on March 22, 1979, a loan for the technologi-
cal development of technology-intensive industries is envisaged in the lending
program.
24.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. A loan
to modernize and expand the system of higher technical education so as to
increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing requirements of
the economy is, therefore, proposed.
25.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more eauitably by the
diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector and
through nationwide development programs. Projects are envisaged for land/
water resource development, for agricultural credit, marketing and
processing, for low-income housing, and for the further development of rural
infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas, which would
enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser developed regions of the
country and would have a significant impact on the problem of migration to
the major metropolitan areas.
26.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development.  Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program. rreater
emphasis will be given to urban transportation, in view of the emerging
problems of urban congestion, particularly in the main metropolitan areas.
27.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1978 was about 10%, and its share of debt ser-
vice was of the order of 6% at that time. These ratios are expected to
increase to around 13% and 7%, respectively, by the mid-eighties.



PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
The Sector in the Economy
28.       The power sector is a particularly capital-intensive part of the
economy as it requires approximately 14% of public expenditures and
accounts for almost 1.4% of GNP, while utilizing less than 0.1% of the labor
force. It plays a major role in the economy in adequately meeting the
demands of a rapidly expanding industrial sector and in improving the
quality of life of the people over 97% of whom have, at the present, access
to electricity supply. The power sector is the fastest growing form of
energy in Korea and accounted for about 20% of the overall energy sector
in 1977. Korea's dependence on imported energy was nearly 68% of all energy
consumed in 1977 and would reach some 85% by year 2000. Accordingly, the
Government's objective in the long term is to diversify the origin of energy
imports to maintain continuity of fuel supplies and make periodic review
of energy demand and supply patterns to ensure that they match the expected
economic development of the country at least cost.
Resources
29.       Korea has very limited indigenous energy resources.  As indicated
above, in 1977, about 68% of all energy requirements were imported. No
reserves of natural gas or oil have been reported, but off-shore exploration
is underway in an area of about 300,000 sq km. Excluding pumped-storage
projects - which are net consumers of energy and produce peak generation the
hydroelectric potential is estimated at about 2,000 MW of which about a
third has been developed and it is expected that more than two-thirds would
have been harnessed by 1986. Most of the remaining sites are small with low
head which would call for the construction of relatively costly dams to
regulate the river flows and would be economically justified, if at all,
only as multipurpose projects. It seems clear, therefore, that
hydroelectric power can contribute only marginally to the expansion of the
energy sector. Korea's reserves of anthracite coal are estimated to
represent about 23 years of use at present levels of production and are used
primarily for domestic purposes. Its requirements of coking coal have to be
imported entirely.
The Power Market and Supply
30.       Korea has about five million electricity consumers.  While
industrial consumers are responsible for about 66% of total consumption,
97% of consumers are residential. Per capita consumption is about 733 kWh
a year, which is higher than the average for countries in Asia. KECO
expects that with the completion of its rural electrification program in
1981 the network will serve the entire population.
31.       Electricity sales have grown at an annual rate of about 20% since
1961, with sales to large industrial consumers growing particularly rapidly,



- 9 -
reflecting the Government's policy of promoting industry. Demand forecasts
for the period 1979-86 show that electricity sales will continue to grow,
but at a somewhat reduced annual average rate of 13.4%. To meet this growth,
the Government plans to inacrease generation capacity by approximately
14,300 MW from the present level of 7,000 MW, with the generation develop-
ment plan showing a shift of generating sources from heavy dependence on
conventional steam thermal plant (mostly oil-fired) in the past to nuclear
power plant in the future. The transmission and distribution systems are
also to be strengthened by the construction of 3,584 km of 345 KV and
6,014 km of 154 KV transmission lines and 34,830 km of distribution lines.
In order to meet these targets, it is estimated that investment in the
sector during the period 1979-86 would have to be of the order of $27 bil-
lion in current prices including a foreign exchange component of approxi-
mately 40%. Of this total, KECO's investment would represent about $25
billion.
Energy Development Policy
32.        The basic concepts of the Government's energy policy are: (a) to
organize a system capable of supplying reliable, inexpensive and high
quality energy; (b) to maximize the development and utilization of
indigenous energy resources; and (c) to rationalize energy consumption. The
cornerstone of the policy is the heavy nuclear development program and the
substitution of imported coal for oil to fuel the future thermoelectric
plants. In addition, emphasis is being placed on the development of all
economically exploitable hydroelectric resources and the installation of
pumped storage plants to help handle peak demand. As a counterpart to these
measures, the Government has adopted a rigorous energy conservation program
aimed at reducing overall energy consumption by 5% a year from 1979. The
program includes a special fund for the rational use of energy and for
energy audits of industrial firms by Government inspection teams.
Tariffs
33.        The process of adjusting tariffs is initiated by KECO and, after
review by the Ministry of Energy and Resources and the Government Price
Stabilization Committee, proposals are submitted for consideration by Cabinet
and final approval by Presidential Decree. Although this procedure suggests
a lengthy approval process, in the past it seems to have worked well. Al-
though good progress has been achieved in restructuring tariffs since 1973,
KECO's rates do not adequately reflect the cost of supply to the respective
consumer categories. The Government has tended to encourage industrial
development through low electricity tariffs and has offered special dis-
counts to certain industries. More recently, the Government has charged
penalty rates to residential and commercial consumers where their consump-
tion is considered excessive and the new rates are in excess of the long-run
marginal costs of supply. A marginal cost pricing study is being undertaken
for KECO by Electricite de France under a technical cooperation agreement
with the Korean Development Institute. KECO has agreed to submit a copy of
the recommendations of the study, by December 31, 1980, for review and comment
by the Bank and the Government has agreed to review and consult with the



- 10 -
Bank on the application of marginal cost based electricity tariffs and take
action to implement changes agreed between KECO and the Bank (Sections 5.05
and 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.02(b) of draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Sector Organization
34.       The Ministry of Energy and Resources (MER) which was established
at the beginning of 1978, is responsible for coordinating overall energy
use, energy resources, the fuels and the electricity industry, which
formerly were the responsibility of various agencies under the control of
several ministries. Through its Electricity Bureau, MER formulates the
national policy for the electricity sector and oversees and controls the
activities of KECO, approving its future plans and recommending electricity
rates to the Government. MER shares with the Economic Planning Board (EPB)
and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) the responsibility for defining
investment priorities and approving KECO's annual budget. The Ministry
of Construction (MOC) retains jurisdiction over the survey, exploration,
development and use of water resources throughout Korea. Either directly
or through the Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation
(ISWACO) it supervises, constructs, owns and operates all multipurpose
projects. Finally, the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) is
responsible for the licensing, regulation and supervision of the nuclear
industry, although the design, equipment, construction and operation of
nuclear power plants are the responsibility of MER through KECO.
35.       KECO is the sole public electricity distributor in the country
and it owns all the generating facilities (6,400 MW) with the exception
of a 325 MW steam power plant owned by a private oil refinery and the
multipurpose hydro facilities (200 MW) owned by ISWACO. The electricity
generated by these two companies is sold in bulk to KECO. KECO distributes
electricity through a network of 21 branches each with independent units
responsible for construction, operation and maintenance of the
transmission and distribution systems. Coordination between all these
units within the branches with KECO's main head office would appear to pose
increasing organizational problems as the system is expanded. Since its
formation in 1961, KECO's main function has been to meet the growing demand
for electric power. As a result, the company's growth has been based almost
solely on its original structures so that today some of its operating
procedures are not the best suited to accomplish its medium-term objective
with efficiency and economy. The Government and KECO have agreed that the
present form of organization should be modified in view of the expected
rapid expansion in the electricity system over the next eight years during
which demand for electricity is expected to almost triple. The consultant
services required for the study of KECO's organization will be financed by
the proposed loan.
Bank Participation in the Sector
36.       The proposed project would be the first loan to KECO and the first
loan directly for the power sector in Korea. However, there have been other
loans which have indirectly benefitted the sector; Loan 953-KO made in 1974
for the Kyongju Tourism Project for $25 million included an electricity



- 11 -
component of $3.7 million for transmission and distribution facilities in
the resort area; Loans 1216-KO and 1218T-KO made in 1976 for rural
infrastructure, included $18.1 million for electrification of 300,000 rural
housing units; and Loan 1666-KO for $125 million, made in March 1979 to the
Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development Corporation for the Chungju
multipurpose project includes provision for a 460 MW power plant. Most
recently the Bank supervised the execution of a study of Korea's energy
policies financed by UNDP. The consultants' draft report contains a list of
high priority recommendations, the most important of which are: (a) that the
organization and staff of KECO be strengthened and that it be allowed more
autonomy; (b) that an analysis of energy pricing policies be carried out;
(c) that the implications of Korea's nuclear power program be examined, and
(d) that an "energy impact evaluation program" be formulated to determine if
specific investment meets energy conservation policies and reflects the most
economical choice of fuel. During the execution of the proposed project,
the Bank expects to assist both the Government and KECO to implement some of
these important aspects.
37.       In addition to assisting the Government and KECO in developing
programs to deal with these major conclusions of the "Energy Policy Study",
there are several other cogent reasons for the Bank to lend for the develop-
ment of the power sector in Korea. The Government has requested the Bank's
involvement partly because KECO is the largest corporation in Korea and it
is clear that much needs to be done to improve its planning, organization
and finances. As indicated below, Korea's rapid economic growth is placing
a heavy burden on its power facilities and a major power expansion program
needs to be undertaken if power shortages are not to impede the further
growth and diversification of the economy. The U.S. and, to a lesser
extent, other countries and the ADB have helped to meet the financing
requirements in the power field up to now. However, the magnitude of the
investment required in the future is of an order that other sources of
financing will have to be found. It seems appropriate for the Bank to lend
for the power sector in Korea in view of the complexity of the expansion
program as well as its financial needs.
38.       Although KECO is theoretically an independent company, its manage-
ment and performance have been strongly influenced by Government decisions
regarding generating capacity, utility financing and power pricing. The
experience with KECO gained during the development of the proposed project
suggests that KECO could develop the technical and economic capability to
carry out adequate system planning within a fairly short time frame. The
Government has agreed that responsibility for the formulation of the elec-
tric power development program would be assigned to KECO in collaboration
with the other relevant Government agencies. In this connection, the Bank
will provide KECO with technical assistance to encourage a more realistic
use of planning models in the preparation of its development program.
Another objective of the proposed loan is to carry out a study of KECO's
staffing and salary structure, especially for key technical positions, so as
to define what action needs to be taken to help KECO to attract and retain
adequately qualified staff.



- 12 -
39.        KECO is afflicted with the classic problem of an inadequate
pricing structure and a shortage of investment resources. It does not
have clearly defined Financial goals and there is considerable scope for
improving its financial planning. In this context, assurances were obtained
during the negotiations that minimum financial targets would be developed,
that the adoption of tariffs based on marginal cost pricing will be given
high priority, and that improvements will be effected in KECO's financial
planning.
40.        In sum, the proposed project will enable the Bank, in accordance
with the Government's wishes, to collaborate more closely with KECO in
the formulation and implementation of organizational planning and financial
reforms to help the institution acquire the capability to meet the power
needs of an economy which is growing and modernizing at a rapid rate.  It
will also afford the opportunity for the continuation of the Bank's dialogue
with the Government authorities on the broader issues in the energy sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Gojeong Power Project"
(No. 2677-KO, dated November 20, 1979) is being distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held
in Washington from November 8 to 13, 1979, with a Korean delegation led by
Mr. S. Y. Wei, Economic Counselor at the Korean Embassy in Washington.
Project History
42.        In late 1976, the Government and KECO first requested Bank financing
for a thermal power plant project included in KECO's development program.
However, it was not until April 1978 that financing of the Gojeong project was
proposed. Following a preliminary mission in October 1978, KECO commissioned
Overseas Bechtel Inc. and Bechtel International Inc. (USA) in association with
Taihan Engineering Company Limited (Korea) to prepare a feasibility study and
assist in the preparation of the proposed project. This feasibility study was
reviewed in February 1979 by a preparation mission and the project was
appraised during June 1979.
Project Description and Objectives
43.        The project comprises: (a) a thermal power station with two 500 MW
coal/oil fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal handling
and storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area; (c) a
fuel unloading dock for ships of up to 100,000 DWT displacement; (d) a pumping
station and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station, with
a 5.3 cu m/min capacity sufficient for the first four 500 MW units; (e) a
160 km double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the Gojeong power
project and Seoul, and related terminal substations, and (f) a study of KECO's
organization and management. The project will help meet the rapid growth in
the country's electricity demand.



- 13 -
Location and Size
44.       The Gojeong plant will be located on a hilly peninsula on the west
coast about 40 km north of the port of Kunsan. The site is adequate for the
ultimate installation of 6 x 500 MW units but will initially comprise two
units. The project constitutes the next logical step in KECO's development
programn to meet the load growth up to 1986. To avoid interruption to the
coal supply, the dock and coal unloading facilities will be built to the
final capacity to avoid serious interference that would be caused if expansion
were to take place after the first two units are commissioned. Coal require-
ments for the project are estimated at 2.2 million tons per year and would
probably be imported from Australia, Canada, South Africa and USA. Long-term
contracts for supply of imported coal have been sought. In the event of
interruption to coal suppliLes, the plant has been designed to use oil as an
alternative fuel. For this reason, the project includes four storage tanks
wLthii  p-i;Acity for 2 units for 60 days' operation at full load.  The oil
would be acquired from local refineries. These fuel supply arrangements are
satisfactory.
The Borrower, KECO
45.       KECO was formed in July 1961, under the Korea Electric Company Act
by merging of the three thien existing companies. KECO is managed by a board
of directors comprising a president, two executive vice-presidents and six
vice presidents. The president is appointed by the President of the Republic
on the recommendation of the Minister of Energy and Resoarcts;  elo also
appoints the executive vice-presidents.   The Government owns 82% of its
share capital and is expected to have fully acquired the interests of the
other shareholders by 1981. KECO is an efficient and well managed company
but it suffers from excesi,-tre ,overnment regulation and control.  Although a
1978 report by the Korea Development Institute (KDI) recommended reorganiza-
tion of KECO to give it greater autonomy from Government, the latter does not
propose to implement the EDI report recommendations at least until it has
acquired the interests o.  prt,rate shareholders and considered alternative
forms of organization for KECO. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that KECO would engage foreign consultants to make recommendations, by
December 31, 1981, on its future organization and management (Section 4.04
of the draft Loan Agreement). This study would be financed from the
proposed Bank loan.
46.       KECO is the largest public corporation in Korea.  It has over
15,000 full-time employees and expects to have over 20,000 by 1986. There
has been an excessive turnover of experienced staff because of inadequate
incentives and more attractive opportunities in the private sector.
Continuation of this trend could severely constrain KECO's ability to
construct, operate and maintain the rapidly expanding electricity system.
Assurances were obtained dluring negotiations that the Government, in
recognition of this problem, would take appropriate steps in consultation
with the Bank to ensure its ability to recruit and retain qualified staff
(Section 3.03(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). KECO's manpower
development plans are well conceived. It has a very adequate training
center, training facilities at the Kori I nuclear plant, a teclnical high
school and will establish an advanced technical college in 1981.



- 14 -
Future Investments, Sector Plans and Financial Planning
47.        The capital expenditures, including interest during construction,
for the plant and equipment required to meet the system's growth are esti-
mated at about $27 billion at current prices through the period 1979-86.
The program to 1986 comprises some 14,280 MW of capacity and includes
14 thermal stations, 7 nuclear power stations, 5 hydro plants and 3 pumped
storage stations. Although KECO expects to be able to construct most of
these plants on schedule, some delays are inevitable. However, since KECO
has planned to have a high level of reserve capacity, it is not expected to
have any difficulty meeting the demand up to 1986. It has agreed to revise
by June 30, 1981 its expansion program for the period to 1991 taking account
of the effect of the recent energy conservation measures and will review in
detail justification for the various components of the program. This will
require feasibility studies to be prepared especially for the pumped
storage, tidal and multi-purpose hydro projects. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to allocate the main responsibility for the preparation of
the electric power development program to KECO with collaboration, as
necessary, with other governmental agencies (Section 3.03(b) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
48.       After the 1973 oil crisis, KECO's financial performance was
adversely affected because it was not able to pass on the full impact of the
increased costs of fuel to its consumers. It was not until 1977 that KECO's
financial performance improved sufficiently to contribute funds to its expan-
sion program. In 1977 and 1978, KECO earned rates of return on average net
fixed assets and working capital of 12.1% and 11.3% respectively, which were
sufficient to meet its debt service 1.5 times and finance about 14% of its
capital expansion needs. KECO's debt/equity ratio has improved from 70/30
in 1974 to 60/40 at the end of 1978. This level of debt/equity ratio will
support its plans to borrow a substantial part of its investment require-
ments over the next five years provided it can maintain an adequate level of
earnings and debt service coverage. During the construction period of the
Gojeong project, KECO plans to borrow about 46% from foreign sources, 38%
locally, obtain about 3% from the Government as equity and provide the
balance from internal cash generation. It will be important for KECO to
ensure that tariffs are increased sufficiently to cover any increases in
fuel costs.
Project Cost and Financing
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $657 million of which
$192 million is the foreign exchange component. The estimated costs were
based on prevailing prices at the beginning of 1979 except for the turbine
generators and boilers which were based on the actual bid prices. A physical
contingency of 10% on the overall cost has been allowed to cover variations in
labor productivity, unit costs and quantities. Price contingencies for
foreign costs were assumed at 10% for 1979, 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981 and 7%
for 1982-84; for local costs, price contingencies were assumed at 14% for the
first half of 1979, 10% for the second half, 9% for 1980 and 8% for 1981-84.
The local cost escalation rates are conservative, but the Government is
giving high priority to curtailing inflation.



- 15 -
50.       A Bank loan of $115 million would finance 60% of the foreign
exchange cost of the project. The loan would be used to finance part of the
foreign exchange cost of pumps, coal and ash handling equipment, auxiliary
mechanical and electrical equipment, communication system materials and equip-
ment for the transmission system and management consultant services, It is
anticipated that approximately 72 man-months of consultants' time will be
required for the study at an average cost of $10,400 per man-month. Turbine
generators and boilers would be financed by suppliers export credits on
16-year term, including a period of grace of 4 years, with interest at
7-8% p.a.  KECO would bear the foreign exchange risk on the proposed Bank
loan and would finance the interest during construction from its own
sources. The local costs of the project would be financed by KECO partly
from its cash generation and partly from borrowings. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will finance any shortfall
in funds required for completion of the project (Section 2.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Implementation
51.       Construction of the plant would be supervised by AMTAI, KECO's
consultants, which is a joint venture between American Bechtel, Inc. (USA)
and Taihan Engineering Company, Ltd. (Korea). KECO would be fully responsible
for the transmission component. This arrangement is appropriate since KECO
has good experience in the design and supervision of 345 KV transmission
projects. The project is expected to be constructed in about 4-1/2 years,
with the first unit being commissioned in October 1983 and the second about
April 1984.
Procurement
52.       Contracts for all equipment and materials to be financed by the pro-
posed loan would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement. For purposes of
bid comparison, a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, will be extended to qualified
manufacturers. Contracts for materials and equipment costing less than
$500,000 would be tendered without prior approval from the Bank. Informal
assurances were obtained during negotiations that KECO will have full res-
ponsibility for procurement of goods and services to be financed from the
Bank loan.
Disbursements
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed for 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment and materials, 100% of the ex-factory
cost of locally-procured equipment and materials and 100% of consultant's
services. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1984.
Environmental Aspects
54.       KECO has arranged studies of the environmental effects of the
project which is being designed to minimize any adverse effects on the
environment. To measure compliance with the Bank's recommendations on the



- 16 -
ground level concentration of S02, assurances were obtained that FECO will
submit an air quality study to the Bank by December 31, 1980 and make its best
efforts to comply with the Bank's recommendations (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Financial Covenants
55.       KECO's financial position was discussed during negotiations.  It
was agreed that KECO would take all steps necessary to provide revenues
sufficient to: (a) cover its operating and maintenance expenditures;
(b) meet its amortization expenditures; and (c) finance a reasonable propor-
tion of its investment requirements (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan
Agreement). In order to meet these financial targets, KECO agreed that it
would set electricity tariffs at a level which enable it to earn a rate of
return of at least 9%O on its average net fixed assets plus working capital
and 100% of the average value of works in progress (Section 5.07 of the
draft Loan Agreement and a related Supplemental Letter).  The Supplemental
Letter also states that KECO would, inter alia, continue its policy of
passing on increases in fuel costs to its consumers through tariff adjust-
ments; that it would restrict its short-term borrowings to a minimum; that,
whenever justified, KECO's investment program would be adjusted in the light
of changes in power demand; and seek, whenever necessary, additional equity
contributions from the Government. It will revalue its gross fixed assets
and accumulated depreciation periodically to reflect current price levels in
Korea. KECO's 1979-86 financial forecasts have been estimated for this
purpose after taking account of the effects of conservation measures
introduced by the Government in June 1979. Adopting the rate base normally
used for the Bank's loans to electricity utilities i.e. omitting works-in-
progress, the projections show that KECO would earn rates of return of 13.7%
in 1979 rising to 15.8% in 1983 before declining to 11.2% in 1986 on its
revalued average net fixed assets and working capital. These rates of
return represent a satisfactory return on KECO's rate base and would enable
KECO to cover its debt service through 1986 at least 1.2 times and finance
about 15% of its construction requirements. Considering the high costs of
borrowing assumed for KECO during this period and the large volume of
investments it is planning, this performance is acceptable. Powever, should
the cost of borrowing increase beyond present expectations and KECO's debt
service coverage fall below 1.2 times, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that KECO and the Government would review the rate of return
target (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       With respect to financing of KECO's investment program, it does
not expect to have difficulty obtaining the funds it needs for the program.
It has ready access to export credit funds, foreign commercial bank loans
and is planning the first of a series of Eurobond issues. However, since
costs of its borrowing are rising rapidly, it is important that it should
minimize short-term borrowings and those subject to high rates of interest.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that FECO will submit its
annual budget and borrowing plans to the Bank for review within two months
after the commencement of each fiscal year (Section 5.06 of the Loan Agree-
ment). Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that YECO should



- 17 -
retain the dividends on its shares (Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
57.       In 1976. KECO adopted shorter plant lives for depreciating its
plant in service. The effect of this change in policy was to reduce its
rate of return performance by about 2.5% each year.  However, it is expected
to increase cash availability and for this reason, it is considered to be an
appropriate strategy for KECO to adopt, provided the financial effects are
disclosed in the notes to its audited financial statements. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that KECO would maintain rates for depreciation
of its fixed assets in accordance with accounting practices acceptable to
the Bank (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
58.        The Gojeong project, which is part of the national expansion
program is the least cost alternative for meeting part of the increased
demand of the interconnected system from 1984. The project will contribute
8.2% of the system's overall net generation requirements in 1984. Another
significant benefit to Korea will be the participation of local manu-
facturers in association with foreign manufacturers in the construction of
electromechanical equipment. It is expected that Korean industry will
benefit from the introduction of this advanced technology and enable it to
manufacture a substantial part of the sector's domestic requirements and
subsequently to participate in the international market.
59.       The internal rate of return (IRR) on the proposed project has been
calculated as the discount: rate at which the present value of estimated
costs and benefits attributable to the project during its useful life are
equal. To serve as a proxy for benefits, only direct revenues attributable
to the project were calculated based on January 1, 1979 weighted average
border prices per kWh paid by the subscribers. The chain of costs included
the incremental costs of investment and operation less taxes, all at 1979
border prices.  Under these conditions the internal-economic rate of return
(IRR) is about 21%. If the capital and operating costs were 10% higher and
revenues from electricity sales were reduced by the same percentage, the
rate of return would be 15% which is comparable to the opportunity cost of
capital in Korea estimated at about 14%.
Risks
60.       No major risks are expected to be associated with the project.  The
rock at the site is considered good enough to provide a very acceptable
foundation for the power plant and about two-thirds of the excavation will
require blasting. Although several small tremors have occurred in the
vicinity of the site proposed for the project, the consultants estimate that
the site is appropriate for the erection of the station. KECO is experienced
in the construction of power plants and the American consultant is well known
internationally and has good experience in Korea. No difficulties are
expected in fuel supply or other operational aspects.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Electric
Company, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III. In addition to such conditions, the
amendment of KECO's statutory basis in anyway adverse to its ability to carry
out its obligations under the Loan Agreement constitutes an additional event
of suspension (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECCMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
At tachments
November 29, 1979



-19-                                                            Annex I
P  Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOUSAND    10.)                   KOREA REPUBLIC OF           REFERENCE  GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyE)RAGYS
TOTAL              8 .5                                                  SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      22.6                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP Ie
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  120.0       300.0     820.0            450.6      926.1       1748.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     258.0        815.0    1020.0            371.1      73 .7'     1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      24.7        31.4      36.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         41.2      49.0             27.4       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       49.0
STATIONARY POPULAIION (MILLIONS)                         64.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. XM.                       251.0       319.0     365.0            154.8       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICUlLTURAL LAND   1154.0      1371.0    1593.0            566.7      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.9        41.0      37.0             £1.3       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                         53.8         55.7      60.0            54.9        55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.3         3.3       3.0              3.3        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9         2.4       2.0              2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                               5.9         6.4       5.4              4.3        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      41.0        30.0      24.0             30.2       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.0        10.0       8.0              8.3        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1/f       2.6       1.4              2.1        2.2         1.8
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       672.0     686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          42.0      43.9             34.1       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           80.8        99.0     117.0            106.2      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0       114.0     112.0            104.1      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.0        65.0      75.7             57.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.O/      19.0      16.3             16.9       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MCORTALITY RATE     13.0         8.0       5.0              4.8        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.0         59.0      63.0             61.1       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            62.0        43.0      37.0             46.6       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        58.0      62.0             21.9       60.8        69.4
URBAN                                ..        84.0      80.0             46.2       75.7        85.1
RURAL                               ..         38.0      36.0             12.8       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA I)ISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *         25.0      61.0             28.4       46.0        70.1
URBAN                                ..        59.0      68.0             65.0       46.0        88.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0             14.7       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0       2110.0    1677.0           3790.5     2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3220.0/h    2170.0/h   517.0           1107.4     1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2510.0       1900.0    1430.0            613.3      453.4       197.6
URBAN                                ..          ..     340.0            203.6      253.1       260.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..           1110.3     2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        14.9        ..             23.9       22.1         17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIzE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.6         5.3       5.1              5.2        5.3         4.7
URBAN                               5.4         5.0       4.9               ..        5.2         4.4
RURAL                               5.6         5.5       5.3               ..        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.5         2.3         ,.              ..        1.9          1.1
URBAN                               2.8         2.7                                   1.6          1.2
RURAL                               2.4         2.2                                   2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              28.0        49.9         ...                       0. 0        66.0
URBAN                              67.3        92.4                                  71.7        85.1
RURAL                              12.0        29.9      64.9               ..       17.3



-20-                                                            Annex I
Page 2 Page  2  of  5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF          REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYjRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
SAMLE       SWNE      NEXT NIGLER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 94.0        105.0     109.0             97.9       102.5       101.7
MALE                  99.0       106.0      109.0             98.7      108.6        110.0
FEMALE                89.0       105.0      109.0            97.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0         43.0      63.0             42.2        33.5        51.2
MALE                  38.0        52.0       71.0             46.7       38.4         56.4
FEMALE                14.0        34.0       54.0            40.9        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.0          16.0      16.0             12.5        11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            58.0         57.0      49.0             32.5       35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                          34.0         37.0      38.0             25.8       22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        70.6         78.0      91.0             84.1        64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4          2.0       2.7              6.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         32.0        126.0     144.0             84.4      122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3         13.0      48.0             22.4       38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        138.0     173.0             24.2       40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0           5.0       2.2              3.6         3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7500.0      10200.0   13061.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   25.8         32.7      32.8             36.7       25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.4         51.0      44.6             54.6       43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.3         20.1      33.0             16.3       21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.4         35.0      36.6             40.7        33.5        33.8
MALE                                 49.5         46.8      48.8             49.9        48.0        51.3
FEMALE                               17.2         23.0      24.2             31.0        16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.4        1.1             1.1         1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/i        17.1      16.1             14.9        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3/i        44.5      45.3             46.8        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77?         7.1       5.7              6.2         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07?        17.7      16.9             16.8        12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     220.0            193.1       270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..            128.7       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     194.0            136.8       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..            96.8       248.9       403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       9.0             32.0        20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             52.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia S Pacific;   Id  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-52500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1950-55;  /B  1962;   /h  Registered, not all practising
in the country;   /i  1965.
May, 1979



-~   00                 0-  -    Irt00  0-0                                                      C    '        CC    C     10          '-        0Al0                                              A0
2      00-0                 C½ 0                     -.0CC0CO0                   0       C- I00C                  0-            0I 00C          000        C      C -      C-P
000 0C                 Co- o             0-Co-C3C ,                 0COC0             0-C           0        Co    .   0-              '0       0C              0Cf         0
-0,---,--COC    0-0-CC 00 0- ~ C. 01.0   C  CC[00-1-0-00000   ~0   00-000CC    COC001  -CCCCOlOO-0001E
~  ~                            000-C0.   o----  CooooOo-o   .0-0.0                C ooo.0oo.oooo-~-oC00 0.-o.   '00   00   00CC   II   0<00A2I
OCCOC   000.   oCOC OOC    0001'           CC    CCOOC    OCO   0CC--               000-0-           OCOCCoCCO0C.00-000CC                       - C   -1-C             00-  -00-   0-0v
0- 000-C 0-,0-        000-        000-0    0000                   0       .   0-    0C          CC    10 00           -       000-0-0-C-                        00 00-A000 I2
CO         C   0      --0                                                                                                          FL                                           o   Coo~~~~~II A
-1 CO-0,-0000                    O-      I                o       roOC-O                 0CC         00 C 'o001                C    C      -C -00-00-                            
000000    00000   00-  I   0.12  0-00   0-0-0000   0000A   A    000--            0-C-0C          CC0OOCC                         000
0   0   00-000   CCC  0-0C00C.1--,--0.0  000   00    -0-0-0   00  0o0oC0-o COO       Co-          0100-0000<   00000   CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
COO 1   .1   .C 00-0 C                 0         .0-0           00- C-. .           C        0     00    0        CC". .-                 -C            -             -0
00-000-   00.00   000    COO   0  0   00.0-00000          00-00-0000           C 0.00    00   C           000-COO    CC0'0-0-   000A0-A'
000- 0.0 C              000 00             0000000 C C 0- 00-                                   0C 0000 C                     0 0       0 01 0 00                    C   -C
000.00-00  0CO      0C0O   00         o           0-C     COCC          00      0C      0        0-0     IC      0000         0000           0000           0   0-    0 0-I00A0"
0000  0000CC   00-00-  0  0-CC   CO  000   0000-0-C    -0000         0-0-0   CAl A0000 0               00      0     0    0     0
00          1000   00,-Co  - 000000.000    2o0   0:COO?02:n:C:<tCC.000020    010   00000000-                                       Cool   0% ~~~~11  Al 1
C  0000    00000000.-CO  0-0-0,0000.0 00    C   Coo                00-C   0      00CC  '00    0~0-          CC     0   0   0-COO   C-I0A
000CC    CCOOOCCCCC00  CC  OC0-C.C  CC000-00C.0 C00-0000-C          0-       00   00       00-OO'    0-  00             0   00-OCOOl0-0 C-  C-CC              OCCO   .0CCA
C   Co  .0000   CC        0-      0      0-00COO         -o-00-00- A-0                  AC    AC-.000                  AL 0-C         I   AC     AC .         -0,0
00 0000  0C       0000            0 0 00 00 0 C    0-C                       00-00            0C              00    000            0 0-    C'C          C-o-o- 0-C              C        000I0
CCCCC  C   CCCC0-   COCO  0.00-   0000-0    0000-00000-                  CCC                00CC    0       0.0      000.           COOn 0-0. I
I C      I00C I       OO                              00 C"0-                   - 0 0 0 0 -                    -    CC0C-0. 0                    0         -       0--- CI              C0
CI  C0C.C0-C0-0    00'   CC    000   0   0-00000-CC    CC0-C0-   CC'  0.00CC   CC   CO   000    o'-CC---   0-0   CC   0    0000-       00-~~~~~~~~~~~~I A
000-0  C   0 CO00000-C    0-0-  C   0 CC    0000    OCOC.COCC0-0-000    CC   00000-0   C.  000   *0     00-000-00-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A A
C 0-0-00.0 0-00000C          C   C        C     o-00          0000-0- CC               IC       00 CC 0-C           C    o             00    0 0         0-C        CCP
00000-00CC  00   COO    CC  00  00-  0-000000C0-0-    - CCC0000000  CC   0                          00   CI   '0           C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-C  CC  0-C  C   C  0-00.~~~~~.
A C A      C          . CC          0CI    C        000        000             C C        0-00           0C CO 0C100                   C      0      0      00       -         .0        CC         C         
COOC-OCCO"  0000000000  00  0000   0   CoOCCO    0-000000  'C  0-0   00-  0   0  0   CC   00    00  C   0        0-101       00         C     0   0-    00-CC~~~m 
CC-Co   ICC  C.000  0.000CC-    00CC    00   000        00-CC    0000         0-0   C.C   0000-0-0-0-0-   00-    0-  C.                  CCC         0          CO      CCC       CCA0
CCCC0-CO-00C    C   00000   000-00   CCC  0CC.  0000"C   00.-00   0-CC.  0-0CC         010-  CC    IC   00    00-         C      00-       C     000-0-       000       00-      0000      0000
CC    0000  -<O    0--0000C   C          0      C0--0 C   C-"    00               "      10-0000000-OO   C                        C-.        .     Co-   CA                      0 0A.             0
C   CC.COC.CC.0.  ICC0-CCCC0-C   0.  C  0-0  00    CC  0000-0-00000-  C-C.    0    00-000-0-0000                            CC           0-CC      0-C     00-        CooI



-22-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONSMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Actual /I                                                   Projected            Growth rates (x)
1965      1970       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980    1965-75  1978  1978-80
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at
1975 prices)
1. GDP                 6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8  25,769.0  28,688.0  31,324.0  33,938.0   10.7    11.3    8.7
2. Gains from TOT        140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4         348.7          -   1,160.5   1,511.0   1,685.0   1,350.0   1,337.0            -        -       -
3. Gross domestic
income            7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4  27,280.0  30,373.0  32,674.0  35,275.0   10.4    11.3    7.7
4. Imports (goods
and NFS)             984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0  11,723.0  15,138.0  16,077.0  16.636.0   22.5    29.1    4.9
5. Exports volume        388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6  10,210.0  11,994.0  12,294.0  12,827.0   30.7    17.5    3.4
6. Exports
(adjusted
for TOT)             528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   5,678.6   9,290.1  11,721.0  13,978.0  13,644.0  14,164.0   26.1    19.2    0.6
7. Reso-rce gap
(adjusted
for TOT)             455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0        666.0   2,136.8   1,785.4        389.9         2.0   1,160.0   2,433.0   2,472.0          -        -      -
8. Total
consumption       6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4  19, 187.0  21,299.0  23,006.0  24,616.0    8.3    11.0    7.5
9. Investment            917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   5,120.6   5,874.4   7,975.0  10,841.0  11,900.0  12,852.0   18.8    35.9    8.8
10. Domestic savings
(adjusted for
TOT)                 206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   3,708.1   6,569.9   8,093.0   9,373.0   9,668.0  10,659.0   33.6    15.8    7.4
11. GDP aL current
US$                2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  19,089.2  25,369.5  35,375.0  47,582.0  60,488.0  72,633.0   20.7    34.5   23.9
8. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at
1975 prices)
1. Agriculture,
forestry
and fisheries         46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1       25.3       24.9       23.6       22.2        19.1       19.6       19.1       -       -       -
2. Mining and
manufacturing         13.9       20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2       29.2       31.8       30.6       32.9        31.9       32.0       -       -       -
3. Other                  39.8       46.7       47.4       47.8       46.5        45.9       44.5       47.2       48.0       48.5       48.9       -        -       -
C. Prices (1975-100)
1. Export price
index /a              57.7       67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9      100.0      111.7      120.7      132.9      154.1      167.7       -        -       -
2. Import price
index /a              46.3       46.2       46.8       62.5       97.2      100.0       98.0      105.2      114.0      138.8      151.9       -        -       -
3. Terms of trade
indee                124.6      145.9      143.8      136.3      111.0      100.0      114.0      114.8      116.5       111.0     110.4        -       -       -
4. GDP deflator           43.2       70.6       71.0       76.8       95.7      100.0      115.6       137.3      165.9      193.1      214.0       -        -      -
5. Average exchange
arte                 266.2      310.4      394.0      398.5      406.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0       -        -       -
D. Selected Indicators   1965-75  1977-80              E.                                                           Actual
1. ICOR                   2.39       3.75                                                   1960       1970        1975       1977       1978
2. Import elasticity      2.10       1.08              1. Labor force (million)               8.9       10.2       12.3       13.4       13.9
3. Average domestic                                    2. Unemployment (7 of E.l)             7.9        4.9        4.1        3.8        3.2
savings rate          0.15       0.31              3. Employment (million)               8.2        9.7        11.8       12.9       13.5
4. Marginal domestic                                   (X shares)                           100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
savings rate          0.29       0.25             3.1 Agriculture, forestry,
5. Imports/GDP            0.36       0.49                   fisheries                       58.6        50.5       45.9       41.8       38.4
6. Investnent/GDP         0.25       0.36              3.2 Mining and manufacturing          10.4       14.3       19.1       22.4       28.5
7. Resource gap/GDY       0.11       0.05              3.3 Other                            31.0        35.2       35.0       35.8       33.1
F. Public Filance /b        1972       1973       1974        1975       1976      1977/d
(X of GDP)
1. Current revenue        17.8       16.9       18.3       20.3       22.9       22.7
1.1 Tax revenue           13.5       13.2       15.0       16.8       18.9       18.9
2. Current
expenditure           14.2       11.6       12.4       14.4       14.3       15.7
2.1 Defense
expenditures          4.5        3.7        4.4        4.8        5.7        6.3
3. Govermnent
saviog                 3.5        5.3        5.0        5.8        8.5        7.0
4. Capital
expenditure /c        11.3        8.7        8.0        8.3       12.7       10.5
/a  Data for 1965-76 refer to merchandise trade only, 1977-80 data include merchandise and nonfactor services.
/b  Refers to the Government Sector, comprising Central Government (including government enterprises) , Local Government and Special Accounts.
/c  Refers to total capital expenditures, less repayment of debts.
/d  Budget estiLates.
Ie  Data for 1977 and 1978 are based on revised National Accounts (BOK, August 1979); details of the revised historical series for 1965-76 wore not
available at this time.
Novo-ber 29, 1979



-23-                                                             Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(S milion at current prices)
Actual                                                Prcleted
1969    1970     1971    1972    1973     1974     1975     1976     1977    1978    1979        1980
A. Suaaary of Balance of Payments
1. Eaportn (itol. BFS)                                      998  1,221    1,478  2,075  3,962    5,125    5,679   9,111   12,328  15,940  18,942  21,512
2. IOpor-t  (innl. NFS)                                   1,880  2,064    2,490  2,577  4,368    7,209    7,464   9,493   12,329   17,264  22,321   25,267
3. Resource balance                                        -882   -843  -1,012   -502   -406  -2,084  -1,785            -382       -1  -1,324  -3,379  -3,755
4. Net factot service income
(1) Net interest payments                                  2    -29       -91   -138   -166       -229     -399     -411     -479      -702     -790     -997
of  hicih interest on public MLT loans             -47     -68      -89   -120   -150    -201        -290      -345     -437     -653  -1,565  -1,374
(2) Direct investment income                              -6      -8        -      -2       1       -8       -5      -37       -63      -80      -65      -46
(3) Wlorkers' reaittonces (net) /.                         -       -        -       -       -        -        -         -        -        -        -        -
(4) Other factor service iocase (net)                     91      77       84    101       72       74       76       167      332      549      787      916
5. Curtont transfers (net)                                  246     180       171     170     190      224      226      349      223      472       500      600
6. Baloons on current account                              -549   -623      -848   -371   -309  -2,023  -1887           -314        12  -1.085  -2,947  -3.282
7. Private direct investment                                 16      65        43     74    137        104       53       76      104      101       110      125
8. Official capital grants                                  150     131        84      87     61        64        -        -        -         -        -        -
Public I b LT Loans
9. Disbursements                                            660    414       625    735      757    1,155    1,687    1,701    2,212   3,919    4,965    5,275
10. Azortieation                                             109     205      215    289    334         391      368      494      720    1,142    1,500   1,700
11. Net nisbursenents                                        551     209      410    446    423         764   1,319    1,207    1,492    2,777    3,465   3,575
Other N 6 LT Loans
12. Disborseesets                                             17      78        33     49      71       174       85      115       46         -        -        -
13. Anortieatios                                                3       8       10      10      15       23       28      105       71        97       75       72
14. Net diobursemeota                                          14     70        23     39       56      151       57       10      -25      -97      -75       -72
15. Use of IMF resources /b                                     -    -10        -8    -10        -      132      130       97      -25       -2         -        -
16. Short-term  capitol trassactions                          57    122        135    -19       82      -45      680      357       21  -1,171       400       500
17. Capital traosactions NEI /c                              -78       71      112    -87   -110        868      141      -14    -233       108        70      154
18. Change in reserves (- - iocrease) /d                    -161     -35        49   -159   -340       -15    -493  -1,419  -1,346    -631  -1,023  -1,000
19. Foreign eachbage reserves /e (end of penicd)             549     584      535    694  1,034    1,049    1,542    2,961    4.307   4,938   5,961   6,961
B. Grant and Loan Comitments
1. Official grant                                           150    131        84      87      61       64         -        -        -        -
2. Total public H 6 LT loans                                753    475       689    813  1,073    1,972    1,304    3,613   3,304    5,014
(1) IBRD                                                  65      40       85      73    150        85   382.5       372       335      659
(2) IDA                                                   15      15        7      26      20        -                 -         -        -
(3) Other nultilatorl /f                                 25      20       81      68      46       89   101.5       114       135       50
14) G-yeronosts j&                                       102     161      255    479      383      477      360      917      406   1,190
Of which centrally planned econoics-                          -        -       -       -        -        -        -        -        -
(5) Suppliers                                            374     134      248      94    223       486      232      689   1,144    1,027
(6) Financial in-titutions                               144     104       13      73    240       737      193    1,448    1,216    1,966
(7) Bonds                                                  -       -        -       -       -       19        -       60       68       12.2
(6) Public Ioans SNEI h                                   28       1        -       -      11       79       34         -        -        -
3. Other M 6 LT loans .  L                                  180      26        67     74    213        120      138       97       16        -
Debt and Debt Services   -
Public debt outotanding 6 diobursed  (end of period)                               2,691  3,199   3,982    5,277    4,659   8,472    11,992
Interest on poblic debt                                                              120    150       201       290      389      437       653
Repayments on public debt                                                            289      334      391      368      504      717     1,142
Totol public debt service                                                            409    484        592      658      893    1,154     1,795
Oth0 r debt service (net)                                                              23      33       54       60      103      125        140
Total debt service (net)                                                             432     517       646      718      996   1,279      1,935
Sorden on E.pon Earoines (2)
Public debt sErvice                                                                 19.7   12.2       11.6     11.6      9.8      9.2      11.3
Total debt service                                                                  20.8   13.1       12.6    12.6    10.9    10.2         12.1
TDO  + Direct I-vest. Inc.                                                          20.7   13.1       12.4     12.6     11.3    10.7       12.6
Average Terms on Public Debt
Interest as I prior year D06D                                                        5.3     5.6      6.3       7.6      8.2      7.3       7.7
A.ortization as % prior year DOD                                                   12.9   12.4       12.2      9.2     10.9     11.9       13.5
IBRD debt octstandiog 6 disbursed                                                     94.7  139.8   223.8   403.5   659.0   835.1  1,123.2
IBRD as 2 public debt 06D                                                               3.5    4.4       5.6      7.7      9.9      9.9        9.4
IBSD as Z public debt service                                                           1.7     2.5      3.3      4.9      5.7      6.7       6.4
IDA debt outstanding 6 disbursed                                                      47.1   58.5    78.3    92.7   102.4   111.1    114.4
IDA as Z public debt O0D                                                                1.8     1.8      2.0      1.8      1.5      1.3        1.0
IDA as Z public debt service                                                            0.1    0.1       0.1      0.1      5.1      0.1       0.1
E.tern-l Debt (Disbursed Only) Outatandine December 31. 1978    Amount                  %
1. IBRD                                                                1,123.2       9.4
2. Bnok Group jj                                                       1,237.5      10.3
3. Other asltilateral                                                    400.9       3.3
4. Governoart                                                          3,353.9      28.0
Of which centrally planned ecooic                                        -         -
5. Suppliers                                                           3,711.5      31.0
6. Finoocial institutions                                              3,021.4      25.2
7. Bonds                                                                 266.2       2.2
8. Other public debt n.e.i.                                                  -          -
9. Total public dobt                                                  11,991.6     100.0
10. Other MLT debt                                                        461.2
11. Total publlc ane other KLT debt (disbursed)                       12,452.8
12. Total public and othee MLT debt (inl. undicursed)                 19,080.7
C. Menoranduc items
1. Grant element of totol ronnitentsi                      25.2   25.8      30.5   37.2   25.2    27.7         10.6     11.1      8.0      7.4
2. Average interest (1)                                     5.1     5.1      5.2    4.8      6.1       8.0      7.9      8.0      8.2      8.8
3. Average maturity (years)                                14.1   17.9      19.0   23.6   18.3    11.6         13.0     13.0     11.4    14.4
Included in other factor service income.
/b  Net of "draings" and "repayment by purchase" (IFS).
/c 1n-lodes borrowings by the basking system.
/d  Exclnden set one of IMF resources which ore shown  -eporately.
/e "`nternstional ERserves" (IFS).
/f ADB.
/g  Inclodes bilateral ODA, Eibanlts, official export credits, i-clodiog US CCC Credits.
/h Other guaronteed private loass
L. Private ooas.
/i E-c1udes IFC.
Noveober 29, 1979



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                               Amount ($ million)
Credit  Calendar                                                     (less cancellations)
Number    Year        Borrower             Purpose                Bank   TW   IDA  Undisbursed
Fourteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                  641.4         106.8
906      1973   Republic of Korea   Education II                  23.0                     3.2
917      1973   Republic of Korea   Ports I                       80.0                     2.7
942      1973   Republic of Korea   Seeds Production               7.0                     0.3
953      1974   Republic of Korea   Tourism                       25.0                     0.6
994      1974   AFDC                  Agriculture                 13.0                     1.2
1070      1975   Republic of Korea   Secondary Cities-Gwangju 15.0                          4.3
1096      1975   Republic of Korea   Education III                 22.5                     5.5
1101      1975   Republic of Korea   Railways V                   100.0                     3.5
1175      1975   SMIB I                 Dev. Fin. Co.              30.0                     0.1
1193      1976   Republic of Korea   Second Integrated             15.0                     1.4
Dairy Development
1203      1976   Republic of Korea   Highways III                  90.0                    17.6
1216 &    1976   Republic of Korea   Rural Infra-                  20.0                     0.4
1218-T                                  structure I                      40.0               0.8
1319      1976   ADC                    Irrigation                 29.0                    26.6
1328      1976   Republic of Korea   Agricultural Credit           20.0                     3.6
1338      1976   KDB II                 Dev. Finance Co.           82.5                     3.4
1364      1977   ADC                    Irrigation                 95.0                    79.6
1401      1977   Republic of Korea   Ports II                      67.0                    65.9
1461      1977   KDFC VI                Dev. Finance Co.           70.0                     4.2
1466      1977   Republic of Korea   Heavy Machinery               80.0                    30.1
1474      1977   Republic of Korea   Vocational Training           23.0                    18.9
1503      1978   ADC - Ogseo Stage I Agricul/Irrigation            36.0                    36.0
1507      1978   SMIB II                Dev. Finance Co.           55.0                     3.5
1530      1978   Republic of Korea   Rural Infrastructure II  95.0                         75.0
1542       1978   Republic of Korea   Railway VI                  120.0                    69.7
1574      1978   KDB III                DFC                       110.0                    67.9
1635      1978   KDFC VII               Dev. Finance Co.          100.0                    64.9
1640      1978   Republic of Korea   Highways IV                  143.0                   142.9
1666      1979   Republic of Korea   Chungju Multipurpose    125.0                        125.0
1676      1979   Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology   29.0                         29.0
1749      1979   SMIB III               Dev. Finance Co.           60.0                    60.0
1758 L    1979   Second Gwangju                                    65.0                    65.0
Regional Cities
Total                                                2,486.4  40.0  106.8  1,012.8
of which has been repaid                              99.9    -      1.5
Total now outstanding                                2,386.5  40.0  105.3
Amount sold                    8.5
of which has been repaid   3.9                         4.6    -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                    2,381.9  40.0  105.3
Total undisbursed                                    1,012.0   0.8           1.012.8
/a Not yet effective.



_ 25-                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ million)
Year   Obligor                Type of Business                Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.         Textiles                         1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                   4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development       -      0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development         -     0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development    5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.          Synthetic Fibers                 6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.   Tourism                           2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.          Capital Market Development       -      0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper
Mfg. Co.               Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                              15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                   Development Financing           17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                   Electronic Products                     0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                   Development Financing                    0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market                    -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.          Capital Market                  15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                   Development Financing             -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co.,       Electronic Products
Ltd                                                      -     1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                   Capital Market                    -      0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                            -     0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star                                                -      1.5    1.5
Total gross commitment                                99.4   19.3  118.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                48.8    1.8   50.6
Total commitments now held by IFC                     50.6   17.5   68.1
Total undisbursed                                               -       -
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; $7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Progress of implementation is satisfactory and physical implemen-
tation is almost completed. The contractor for the last cereal plant
civil works declared bankruptcy,but other contractors have now completed
the work. Disbursements, as of September 30, 1979, were about 96% of the
loan, and could be completed in 1979. It is planned that all plants will
operate on a pilot basis in 1979 reaching on average, 75% of capacity in
1980.
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in the
private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of fruits
and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using land that
was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are mainly
asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and peach.
Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing to lack
of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the project.
However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since September 1977
when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's scope to meet
changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will finance
processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables, and also
fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for which the
loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have increased
significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds by the end
of 1979. Disbursements as of September 30, 1979 were about 91% of the loan.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-27-                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and technical assistance for both farm development
and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a year but the
implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be completed ahead
of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and supply 8% more
cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the farmers has
been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture quality and
establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a low-cost
dairy industry in Korea. The expansion of processing facilities is
progressing steadily and most of it will be completed during 1979; it is
anticipated that the actual capacity then will be significantly above the
original estimate. KDBC financial condition improved during the last two
years but the net profit for 1978 was less than for 1977. The general
prospects are for a gradua:Lly improving trend. As of September 30, 1979,
disbursements were about 9L% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1216    Rural Infrastructure Project; $60.0 Million Loan of which
Loan No. 1218T   $40.0 Million Third Window of March 19, 1976; Effective Date:
June 4, 1376; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project implementation is proceeding very well. The Fuelwood, Roads
and Bridges, Water Supply and Rural Electrification components were
completed by the end of 1977. The Minor Irrigation and Upland Reclamation
components will be completed in 1979. Project monitoring and reporting
continue to be satisfactory, the Hydrologic Services Study has been
completed and the evaluation study is already producing useful results.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were 98% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; 29.0 Million
Loan of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, lccated in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work is progressing on the first
of five major civil work c:ontracts. A second contract was awarded in
July 1979. Altogether, the five contracts will involve construction of 8
large and 19 small earthfill dams, 284 km of main and secondary canals
and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The project, which will
require five years to complete, also involves construction cf 80 km of
river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as well as
feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
The project is currently two years behind schedule due to major shortfalls
in local budget allocations.  As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were
over 8% of the loan amount.



-28-                     ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1328   Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan
of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 335-KO).
It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
for medii-a and long-term loans to farmers, through selected Gun (county)
cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard development, silkworm
rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards, greenhouses for vegetable
production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan became effective on March 10,
1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in the following month. Project
implementation continues to progress satisfactorily and total lending is on
schedule. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were about 82% of the loan
amount.
Loan No. 1364   Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on
20,700 ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include
an estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
Construction of the access roads and a portion of the estuary dam was recently
completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was awarded in
December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule and construction is
progressing well; however, the irrigation subprojects are behind schedule
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations. As of September 30, 1979
disbursements were over 16% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1503   Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work consists
of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and land
development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of improved
drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha of tertiary
irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to paddy land.
Construction will be carried out under seven civil works contracts and three
will be awarded this year, about 12 months behind schedule due to shortfalls
in local budget allocations.



ANNEX II
-29-                    Page 6 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date:  June 8, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project inc:ludes about 43 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The 1978 program for river training, water supply and rural
telephones was completed on schedule and the 1979 program is progressing
well. Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceeding
satisfactorily and contracts have been awarded for 16 subprojects. The
total area of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,235 ha.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were over 22% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years following
its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood damage, generate
an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and provide 460 MW of
peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal features of the
project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han River, a power
plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated transmission
facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam;
relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway, protective works in
the reservoir area including the raising of an existing embankment of a
cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation of a resettlement
program for some 9,300 families affected by the project; and consulting
services.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1175    Medium Industry Bank (MIB); $30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date:  January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides funds to MIB to make subloans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises. The project is progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are about 99% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million
Loan, of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial
Leasing Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by KDB to make
subloans and investments to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects
during the period 1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was
relent by KDB to its wholly-owned subsidiary KILC, to acquire machinery,
equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to investment enter-



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13 pages
-30-
prises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as of September 30,
1979, disbursements were about 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78. KDFC's
performance has been very satisfactory. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements
were about 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million; $141 million above
the appraisal estimate of $255 million. This is due to increases in
scope to enhance the company's ability to manufacture nuclear power
plant; devaluation of the U.S. dollar; and local inflation. The company
is preparing a detailed financing plan to cover the cost overrun which
will be submitted to the Bank for review shortly. The market prospects
for the project have been affected by the licensing of other power plant
manufacturers in Korea thereby leading to the possibility of under-
utilization of the project facilities. This has been brought strongly to
the Government's attention. Project implementation is proceeding satis-
factorily in accordance with the revised implementation schedule and the
completion date is still scheduled for April 1980. As of September 30,
1979, disbursements were over 62% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan
of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help
cover the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects over four
years. A portion of the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist
small-scale, labor-intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross
capital cost per job not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed
assets are not greater than $250,000. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements
were about 94% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1574      Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan
of June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's subsidiary,



ANNEX II
-31--                     Page 8 of 13 pages
the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in
order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects.  Overall progress
is satisfactory. As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were over 38% of the
loan amount.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project,
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979 Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The loan was made Ito cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million
would be earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at
a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order
to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the proposed loan was made available
to the Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company
affiliated to KDFC, by way of subloans. As of September 30, 1979, over 38% of
the loan had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
After initial delays in finalizing specifications and bidding
documents for engineering, support and reseach equipment, the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Bids have been invited for a major proportion of
the equipment. Key personnel appointments required to strengthen management
capabilities at the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) have been
made.
Loan No. 1749    Third Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 MIllion Loan of July 23,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979, Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically
produced capital goods (est:imated at 60 percent). To ensure that a reasonable
proportion of the loan is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects,
an amount of $25 million of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to
finance: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b)
projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater
than $8,500. The loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the
Government's policy of increasing the regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure, and also to continue
SMIB support of projects which would complement large-scale manufacturing
enterprises.



-32-                     ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related civil
works. Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to
initial delays and some project changes. The project is now making satisfactory
progress. About 88% of the equipment has been contracted, and 60% delivered;
furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all completed
by the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well under way.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were completed under the Credit and
reached over 86% of the total loan amount, which is expected to be fully
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31, 1975;
Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation has improved for
the MOE part of the project and is about six months behind schedule compared
with being about one year behind schedule in early 1978. Implementation of
the ALA part is satisfactory. Training operations have commenced in five
VTIs. Project completion is expected before the Closing Date of June 30, 1980
for both parts of the project. Estimated total project cost now is expected
to be below, but close to the appraisal estimates. As of September 30, 1979,
disbursements were about 76% of the total loan and were close to the original
forecasts.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance, part of which is being
provided by UNDP and the Federal Republic of Germany. Implementation schedule
has been revised and is about five months behind original schedule. Two
civil works contracts were awarded in November 1978. Equipment procurement
has commenced for two VTIs and the NCVTI with about $5.0 million purchased.
Disbursement should improve significantly. Technical assistance from UNDP
and Germany is satisfactory. The project is facing a moderate financial
problem, mainly caused by the sharp increase in constructing costs, about



ANNEX II
-33-                  Page 10 of 13 pages
140% over original estimate in unit building costs. The Government's
attention has been drawn to the importance of adequate budgetary provisions.
As of September 30, 1979, disbursement was about 18% of the total loan.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953     Kyongju Tourism Project; $25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drain-
age, environmental sanitatiorn, community facilities, and a golf course; and
and a school for training hotel personnel. Project implementation is now
progressing satisfactorily although completion of some project components is
likely to be delayed by aboul: a year, due mainly to budgetary constraints.
The Government has now taken steps to provide all needed funds. The delay
has had no adverse effects onl hotel development.  The first two hotels with
600 rooms were completed and opened for operations on April 1, 1978.
Negotiations with other private investors are under way for two more hotels
and also for apartments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. About 98%
of the loan had been disbursed as of September 30, 1979.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads, a city
market fishery harbor infrastructure and building complex and associated
electrical works have been completed. Installation of refrigeration and ice
handling equipment at the fishery complex has experienced some delays; the
fishery complex is now expected to be fully operational by early 1980.
Construction of houses at a]Ll three sites has been completed and the sites
are fully occupied. After the initial delays, mainly in fulfilling conditions
of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit, the
project has moved extremely well. As of September 30, 1979, disbursement was
over 71% of the loan amount.



ANNEX II
-34-                    Page 11 of 13 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are practically completed. Final estimated cost is $143 million
including $101 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign exchange require-
ment over the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided by a
Saudi Fund for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Government; this
loan was based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115 million
arrived at following the first large increase in the price of petroleum
products. The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional civil
works. The project is practically completed.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and
other equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the
strengthening of its financial position. The main components of the project
are: an increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling;
acquisition of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts
and repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. Contracts, financed by the loan, have been signed for
procurement of passenger and freight cars, wheel sets, spares for locomotives,
rail, bridge girders and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about
$96.4 million equivalent. About 97% of the loan proceeds have already been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
February 20, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31. 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four national
highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b) paving and
improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national highways totaling
about 600 km, including supervision of the work by consultants; and (c)
feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of national and provincial
roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All contracts for construction
and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasibility studies by consultants
started in January 1978, and are now proceeding satisfactorily. As of
September 30, 1979, disbursements were over 80% of the total loan. Saudi Fund
for Development is providing a loan of $35 million to assist in financing the
project.



-35-                   ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of
April 28, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project conisists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container berths
being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m expansion of
the container stacking area provided under that project with ancilliary works;
rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and lighter wharf No. 5;
(b) procurement of conta:iner cranes, mobile container handling equipment, and
tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and (d) Technical Assistance
and Training. The first contract has just been let following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Estimated costs have
increased to $167 million ($95 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal
estimate of $112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial
accounting from January 1, 1982. Traffic and specially containerized
general cargo traffic continues to increase at Busan.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of a
permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars and
freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation of
additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of technical
assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector studies.
Bids have been received for about 96% of the Bank-financed items. Consultants
have been selected to carry out feasibility studies of major investment
items for 1980 and 1981., As of September 30, 1979, disbursements were about
42% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the



-36-                   ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
future development of the gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and bids on the remaining roads were received,
and contracts awarded August 1979. A contract for the study was signed, and
work started, in September 1979.



ANNEX III
-37-                       Page 1
KOREA
GOJEONG POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Completion of feasibility study:           January 1979
(b)  Departure of preappraisal mission:         March 1979
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission:            June 1979
(d)  Agency which prepared the project:         Korea Electric Company
with the assistance of
consultants
(e)  Negotiations completed:                    November 13, 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             March 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
No specific a,ction is considered necessary.
Section III - Special Conditions
The following conditions are 'Lcorporated in the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements:
(a)  KECO would submit to the Bank, by December 31, 1980, for review
and comment, the marginal cost study undertaken by the Electricit'
Ie Prance under a technical cooperation agreement with the Korean
T)evelopment Institute, and the Government has agreed to review and
consult with the Bank on the application of marginal cost based
electricity tariffs and take action to implement changes agreed
between KECO and the Bank (para. 33);
(b)  KECO would engage foreign consultants to make recommendations
by December 31, 1981, on its future organization and management
(para. 45);
(c)  the Government would take appropriate steps t  ensure KECO's
ability to recruit and retain qualified staff (para. 46);



-38-                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) the Government would allocate the main responsibility for the
preparation of the electric power development program to KECO
in collaboration with other government agencies (para. 47);
(e) the Government would finance any shortfall in funds required for
the completion of the project (para. 50);
(f) KECO would submit to the Bank an air quality study on the ground
level concentration of S02 (para. 54);
(g) KECO's electricity rates would be set at a level sufficient to
earn a rate of return of at least 9% on its average net fixed
assets plus working capital and a 100% of the average value of
works-in-progress (para. 55);
(h) assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
and KECO would review the rate of return target whenever KECO's
debt service coverage fall below 1.2 times (para. 55);
(i) KECO would submit its annual budget and borrowing plans for
review and comment within two months of the commencement of each
fiscal year (para. 56); and
(j) the Government would have KECO reinvest the dividends on its
shares (para. 56).



IBRD 11320 R
>  re U S S R                                                                      27'  12a                                 12*7'                         JUNE 1979
5.,                                                127                                12;'                                15
N  ORTH    KOREA                                                  ) '
CHINA                                                                                                                                                   EAST
6 Cy    *S.                                                              0 }  /          HWACHEW                S            \E  SEA
EA                JA                                     6 R        -          CHUJCIEON SCHeON
0                         ~~~~~~576MWH
Po~pn  Stooge !No 2 P H    SY     GN
403 MW -5                 Y0MEONGDONG
'A> -           C                                                CH, NGPYONG        5M                   _                            125MW  200 MW-1979
Stad,6M ,4,,.aM  t. ,                                                                        3
.. d     htetM .te. a t N                                                                                                                                SAM CHOG
0iMS8.'dKY9.Nf85I,.,.
~~ettn l5t1tat l59   \\\  \                                            s0 MW  TY 100MW-1979 
'325; MW0
37'-
37'
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ~ ~ ~   ~          ~          ~         ~         S
596 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ 2M
-19 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~'SeW19
NGJU ~ ~ ~     ~ ~ ~ PSS6AGN ~                     ~GA
90M-198
5SEA                        2- 200MW-1$                                                                                                                      1 00,#w r  M   '964
IL.          TEONJUN\M\ISS ON                                                                            i
, X   UNA IMA     V)   19BFA                T              E             CON \RLJTON         POJECT
2 u J ~~26MW  0W-W ?/O0OMW
NNvX   J                                              w -  45kva Lnes                -   * -) tpHAE
98  <F\  )4k Lin e8 7mws
--m-45                                                                                                     MW:197845kvS~bl~ots 
P,,m985 k6 S                                                                                                             .  A
0  20  40  60                                                                                    (AS OF100NE           9)
dro                        (E                0         TANSMISSIN UNDER
|IOETR                                                                                      Pu.mpedk Subloora *ge
JEJ                                                     154kvSuseon     os
5.2 MWIN GW
tv  70  40  60  60  100                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fACLIT ES  EXISTING COSUTN   PRJT
,   10 MW    OG2Er,BNOSANPO                     Diesei                      ©fi) (f
MOMM ETR2 MW                                                                                                   "PPumpedStorage
4X2.0r                         <                                         -        Prouec,Il Bovndaries         mPned Mo.,,,    oinjOre
Tr-        Inmernoiool Bo(ndres    r P'u,e  546, Trosso,, L.nns 0ve
J   EJUnO5hw
>,-jV-19-179-90
126-                                 127'                                  28'                                 129'



