                    Document of
                 The World Bank


                                              Report No: 69957 v1




             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                      ON A

        PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                    OF THE
URBAN SECTOR DEVELOPMENT REFORM PROJECT (USDRP)
                 LOAN 7760-IND

                CO-FINANCED BY
           PHRD GRANT No. TF053555-IND



                     TO THE

           THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA


                   May 17, 2012
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APBN       Anggaran Pendapatan dan Belanja Negara (Central Government
           Budget)
CPMU       Central Project Management Unit
DIPA-SLA   Budget Document for SLA
FM         Financial Management
IP         Implementation Progress
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
LED        Local Economic Development
LUSPD      Local Urban Strategy and Policy Development
NUSPD      National Urban Strategy and Policy Development
PDO        Project Development Objective
PMM        Project Management Manual
SLA        Subsidiary Loan Agreement
TPA        Transparency, Participation and Accountability
ULG        Urban Local Government




            Regional Vice President:        Pamela Cox
                   Country Director:        Stefan G. Koeberle
           Sector Manager / Director:       Franz Drees-Gross
                  Task Team Leader:         Indira Dharmapatni




                                        2
                                  INDONESIA
                  URBAN SECTOR DEVELOPMENT REFORM PROJECT
                                    P071296
                                  CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                    Page
A.    SUMMARY ........................................................................................................................... 4
B.    PROJECT STATUS .............................................................................................................. 4
C.    PROPOSED CHANGES ...................................................................................................... 6

ANNEXES

ANNEX 1 REVISED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS …………………………………………… 8
ANNEX 2 EXTENSION OF CLOSING DATE .......................................................................... 9




                                                                   3
             URBAN SECTOR DEVELOPMENT REFORM PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

1.     This Restructuring Paper seeks Country Director approval to introduce the
following changes in the Republic Indonesia: Urban Sector Development Reform Project
(USDRP), Loan 7760-IND (formerly Loan 4786-IND) and the related PHRD Grant TF
053555, P071296, and any accompanying amendments to the project’s legal documents.
A. SUMMARY

2.      The project supports 10 Urban Local Governments (ULGs) in rebuilding/building
13 markets, one bus terminal, and one fish auction facility and in implementing their
local reform agenda. These markets would benefit about 6,000 traders. Seven ULGs
have completed the construction of their markets and terminal. Whereas two ULGs
(Banda Aceh and Morowali) are still in the construction process and one (Sawahlunto) is
in the process of rebidding its civil works for the market. All ULGs are implementing
their reform agenda in three areas, i.e., transparency, participation and accountability
(TPA), financial management, and procurement. Construction delays in these three ULGs
were mainly due to the delays in the bidding process and in the issuance of the DIPA-
SLA (budget document). The Executing Agency confirmed that all of the construction in
the three ULGs will be completed in the end of May 2013, and by this time, indicators of
reform areas will be fully achieved, except for one of the three procurement reform
indicators, i.e. “announcement in public domain and award the contractors/suppliers with
best performance at least once a year in at least one local agency by using the agreed
criteria?.

3.       Given the above, the proposed changes are (i) to extend the current Loan closing
date and the current PHRD grant closing date from June 30, 2012 to May 31, 2013, and
(ii) to simplify one of the three performance indicators for procurement reform. This will
be the second extension of the project, and if it is granted, the cumulative extension will
be 23 months from the original loan closing date of June 30, 2011. The proposed
extension is necessary to: (i) complete construction of three subprojects in three
participating ULGs; (ii) promote ULGs in accelerating subproject operation; and (iii)
ensure that all reform indicators are fully achieved.

B. PROJECT STATUS

4.      The project was approved by the Bank’s Board of Directors on June 7, 2005 and
became effective on January 18, 2006. The original closing date was June 30, 2011. The
project has been formally amended on five occasions: (a) on January 18, 2006, to deal
with delays by several ULGs in meeting the effectiveness condition of adopting the
Project Management Manual (PMM); (b) on March 26, 2007, to include Least Cost
Selection as a procurement method; (c) on July 14, 2008, to add four new participating
ULGs to partially compensate for the eight ULGs that had either dropped out of the
program or failed to launch project activities; (d) on May 7, 2010, to modify the Project
Development Objective (PDO) and reorient Project indicators, to reallocate loan proceeds

                                            4
and revise disbursement categories as well as to include two additional participating
ULGs and to extend the loan closing date for one year; and (e) on February 14, 2011, to
implement a partial loan cancellation and reallocation. The PDO is to assist the Borrower
to strengthen local governance and improve the provision of selected urban services by
participating ULGs and additional participating ULGs. This project is one of a number of
sub-national projects currently financed by the World Bank that support the Indonesian
government’s ambitious decentralization agenda. The projects are being implemented in
a highly complex and challenging environment, and seek a break through on vital issues
related to effective implementation of Indonesia’s decentralization program.

5.      Project Performance. Overall Implementation Progress (IP) is rated “moderately
satisfactory? since the Project has made reasonable progress toward achieving its
objectives through the implementation of the core urban reform agenda and priority urban
investments as specified in the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) in ten ULGs. The
following describes the progress of the project for each component.

6.       Progress of Component A. The project has made good progress under the urban
reform and institutional support component. Most of indicators in Component A have
been achieved and sometimes exceeded1, among others: maintaining disclosure of
various public information through websites, set-up of public complaints handling
mechanism by establishing responsible institution, promote public participation by
ensuring block grant mechanism or indicative budget for financing local development,
issuance of local regulations to improve financial management and transparency,
completion of district/municipality/local economic development (LED) plan, and
establishment a provincial center of excellence for urban development and core
governance reform in South Sulawesi. The project also assisted BAPPENAS in preparing
the National Urban Strategy and Policy Development (NUSPD) and helped eight
municipalities/districts to develop Local Urban Strategy and Policy Development
(LUSPD). There are a few indicators which have come in slightly2 below target such as:
publication of annual audit reports, institutionalizing complaint handling mechanisms in
the form of operational standards, implementation of LED activities. The indicator of
“announce in public domain and award the contractors/suppliers with best performance at least
once a year in at least one local agency by using the agreed criteria? at the ULG level is
difficult to implement due to discrepancy with local regulations applied at local level. The
Executing Agency is planning to implement 25 capacity building activities during 2012
with the support of the loan, grant and national budget (APBN) to ensure that the
performance indicators are fully achieved. As of to date CPMU has carried out six
capacity building activities. CPMU is planning to carry out all of the capacity building
activities up to December 2012.

7.     Progress of Component B. All ULGs have signed subsidiary loan agreements
(SLA). Among ten ULGs, seven have completed subproject construction. Among the
seven ULGs, five have initiated subproject operations. At least two ULGs are able to
generate additional revenues from subproject operations (traditional markets and small

1
  More than 70-80% participating ULGs have achieved the indicators, except for implementation LED
activities which depends on annual local budgeting process
2
  It is only 10-20% ULGs that are currently below the target for each lagged behind indicator s
                                                  5
  bus terminal) while another two ULGs initiated operations in January 2012 and one ULG
  has a subproject in partial operation. Two ULGs are in the construction stage and one is
  re-tendering its works. The Table below shows the status subprojects in each ULG.
            Table 1 : Subprojects Financed by Urban Sector Development Reform Project

                                                       Loan Amount
District/Municipalities         Subprojects                                     Subproject Status
                                                       (USD Million)
Cimahi                    New Pasar Atas Market            1.53        Partial operation
                                                                       Initial operation (in selection
Palopo                    Big Market                       4.80
                                                                       process of market manager)
                                                                       Initial operation (traders relocation
Pare-pare                 Lakessi Central Market           4.48        from temporary to the new market,
                                                                       negotiating new tariff structure)
                          Pangkajene Central
                          Market                                       Full operation (has generated
Sidenreng Rappang                                          4.71        approximately 2-3 times local
                          Rappang Central Market
                                                                       revenue)
                          Tanrutedong Market
                                                                       Not yet in operation, needs to
                          Parigi Central Market                        complete construction of additional
ParigiMoutong                                              3.04        facilities financed by local budget
                          Toboli Terminal                              Full operation
Palangkaraya              Kahayan Market                   2.39        Initial operation
                          Pekkae Market                                Initial operation (refining tariff
Barru                     Mangkoso Market                  5.15        structure based on loan repayment
                          Palanro Market                               rate)

                          TPI (Fish Auction
Morowali                                                   2.08        In construction (20 % progress)
                          Market)
Banda Aceh                Aceh Market                      4.33        In construction (36 % progress)
                                                                       Retender (bid opening is scheduled
Sawahlunto                City Market                      1.90
                                                                       for the end of April 2012)



  8.      Disbursement. Disbursement from the loan and grant up to March 31, 2012 is
  USD 29.21 million (76% of the total loan) and 4.06 million (81% of the total grant),
  respectively. As of March 2012, of the IBRD loan of $38.4 million, $34 million has
  already been committed under works and consultant services contracts (about 88.4% of
  the loan amount). Whereas of the $ 5 million Grant amount, $4.4 million (94%) has been
  contracted. The remaining loan amount has been committed under SLAs and for
  consultant services, while the remaining grant amount will be used for financing
  technical assistance and capacity building activities. Some of these committed activities
  will be implemented during the expected Project extension period.

  C. PROPOSED CHANGES

  9.      Extension of Loan closing date and PHRD Grant closing date. An extension
  of the loan closing date and grant closing date from June 30, 2012 until May 31, 2013 is
  proposed. This is necessary to (i) complete construction of three subprojects in three
                                                   6
participating ULGs; (ii) support ULGs as they put subprojects into operation; (iii) ensure
that all reform indicators are fully achieved; and, (iv) complete the implementation of the
remaining capacity building activities at both the central and local levels.

The schedule of construction and handover including the defect liability period for the
three ULGs, i.e., Banda Aceh, Morowali and Sawahlunto is as follows:
      Banda Aceh completion is expected in end of May 2013
      Morowali       completion is expected in end of February 2013
      Sawahlunto completion is expected in end of May 2013

Capacity building activities (25 training and workshops packages overall) will be
implemented by December 2012. Some capacity building activities (LED and FM) will
be carried out in cooperation with professional training centers, such as University of
Indonesia Training Center, while others will be undertaken as self-management by
Ministry of Public Works in cooperation with relevant ministries and agencies. Technical
assistance will be provided up to March 30, 2013 for ULGs that show less progress in
implementing their reform agenda. Capacity building activities cover areas to support the
implementation of reform agenda, improve the quality of the achievement of key
performance indicators, develop better management of subproject operation in order to
generate local revenues, and improve construction quality, including maintenance.

Concerning subproject operation, based on previous experience, ULGs will need a three
(3) to six (6) month period for preparing subproject operation.

10.     Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).             The Executing Agency proposed that
one of three indicators of procurement reforms need to be adjusted as a response to the
constraints of the local regulations. The proposed changes is included in Schedule 9
(Performance Indicators), Indicator (iii) under Part A “Urban Reform – Participating
ULGs practice sound procurement? in Schedule 6 is amended as set out below. The
revised indicator is in italics for ease of reference. This change remains in line with the
Project’s objectives.

       Participating ULGs practicing sound
       Procurement

       (i)     Min. 75% of the bids be awarded
               within the bid validity period, and
               publicized in the public domain, e.g.
               website, local bulletin               At least 60 % of Participating
       (ii)    Min 50% of tendering committee ULGs achieve (i), (ii) and (iii)
               members have national procurement
               certification
       (iii)   Performance         evaluation     of
               contractors/suppliers is conducted in
               at least one Dinas in the particular
               ULG and records are available


                                            7
For the purposes of the foregoing performance indicator, “Dinas? means the local unit at
the ULG level.




                                           8
                                       ANNEX 1
                            Revised Performance Indicators

Key Performance Indicators

Part A: Urban Reform—Participating ULGs practicing sound procurement

Original indicator:

"(iii) announce in public domain and award the contractors/suppliers with best
performance at least once a year in at least one local agency using the agreed criteria"

changed to:

"(iii) performance evaluation of contractors/suppliers is conducted in at least one Dinas in
the particular ULG and records are available".

11.      The proposed changes are included in Schedule 9 (Performance Indicators),
Indicator (iii) under Part A “Urban Reform – Participating ULGs practice sound
procurement? in Schedule 6 is amended as set out below. The revised indicator is in
italics for ease of reference.

       Participating ULGs practicing sound
       Procurement

       (iv)    Min. 75% of the bids be awarded
               within the bid validity period, and
               publicized in the public domain, e.g.
               website, local bulletin               At least 60 % of Participating
       (v)     Min 50% of tendering committee ULGs achieve (i), (ii) and (iii)
               members have national procurement
               certification
       (vi)    Performance         evaluation     of
               contractors/suppliers is conducted in
               at least one Dinas in the particular
               ULG and records are available

For the purposes of the foregoing performance indicator, “Dinas? means the local unit at
the ULG level.
                                             ANNEX 2
                                      Extension of Closing Date

         INDONESIA — URBAN SECTOR DEVELOPMENT REFORM PROJECT
                                  P071296
                          (LN. 7760-IND/TF 53555)

                                        Restructuring Paper


1.     The closing date for Indonesia, URBAN SECTOR DEVELOPMENT REFORM
PROJECT, LN. 7760-IND/TF 53555, P071296 will be extended from June 30, 2012
until May 31, 2013.

2.      The Project progress. Disbursement to the loan and grant up to March 31, 2012 is
USD 29.21 million (76% of the total loan) and 4.06 million (81% of the total grant)
respectively. The current project closing date is June 30, 2012.

       The project has made good progress in Urban Reform and Institutional Support
component. Most of indicators in this component have been achieved beyond target3,
except publication of annual audited report, institutionalizing complaint handling
mechanism in the form of operational standard, implementation of local LED activities,
and establishing procurement award mechanism. For ensuring achievement the lagged
behind indicators, the Executing Agency (EA) is planning to carry out a series of capacity
building activities and technical assistance to ULGs that have less progress in reform
implementation. These capacity building activities will be financed by loan, grant and
national budget (APBN) and which will be executed up to December 2012.

        Meanwhile, the project has made reasonable progress in urban investment
component, among others: all ULGs have signed subsidiary loan agreement (SLA),
however, as of March 31, 2012 only seven ULGs have completed subproject
construction. Another three ULGs will complete construction beyond the current loan
closing date. Among seven ULGs, five are having subprojects in operation, in which at
least two ULG has benefitted from increased revenue.

3.      Proposed extension. The project is progressing towards the achievement of its
objectives. In order to fully achieve its objectives, it is necessary to extend the current
loan closing date of June 30, 2012 to May 31, 2013 to (i) complete construction of three
subprojects in three participating ULGs; (ii) promote ULGs in accelerating subprojects
operation; (iii) ensure that all reform indicators are fully achieved; and, (iv) complete the
implementation of the remaining capacity building activities in both central and local
levels. The Borrower has an action plan which confirmed that :
        (i)      subproject construction in three ULGs will be completed on May 31,
                 2013;
        (ii)     performance indicators will be fully achieved



3
    more than 70-80% participating ULGs have achieved the key performance indicators
                                                    10
4.      This will be the second extension of the project. The first extension of one year
from the original closing date (June 30, 2011 until June 30, 2012) was approved on May
7, 2010 along with the modification of the Project Development Objective (PDO) and
reorientation of project indicators, reallocation of loan proceeds and revision of
disbursement categories as well as inclusion of two additional participating ULGs.




                                           11
