Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8663
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1820-ME)
MAY 17, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industry Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may aOt otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Mexican Peso
1985: US$ - PM 252
1986: US$ = PM 596
Average Exchange Rate for the Project
1981-1986: US$1 - 167.21
FISCAL YEAR
Agencies of Government - January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CFM      - Comision de Fomento Minero (Commission for Mining Development)
CRM      - Consejo de Recursos Minerales (Board for Hinerales Resources
Development)
FM       - Fideicomiso de Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos (Trust Fund for
the Development of Non-Metallic Minerals)
NAFINSA - Nacional Financiera, Sociedad Anonima (National Development
Bank)
PECAM    - Programa Especial Complem-nt;~rio de Apoyo a la Pequena y Mediana
Minera (Special Complementary Program of Assistance to Small and
Medium Mining)
PEMEX    - Petroleos Mexicanos, S.A. (Mexican Petroleum Company)
SEMIP    - Secretaria de Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry of Energy,
Mining and Parastatal Industry)
SMM      - Small and Medium Scale Mining



WTH W ORLD BANK                FOR OFMCAuL USE ONLY
Wahimgton. DC 20433
U.S A
Oik.e d 0Ommtm-Gtwa
0_4wf lvawwn
May 17, 1990
MEMORMADUM To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico
Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Development Project
(Loan 1820-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Development Project
(Loan 1820-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
ThiS document ha a test*icWd dihdbutios and may be used by teip,nu only in the pWefonuanwe
of thei oc  utwa Its contenu may not ohewse be dismed wthout World lank authumo.



VOlR OCIC   USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO - SMALL AND MEDIUM - SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1820-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .............................................    .    ...... i
Basic Data .............................. ...................  ii
Highlights .............................................................. vi
I. PROJECT DESIGN AND OBJECTIVE
Introduction             ..........................................  1
Sector Background      ........... ..... . ... ..    1
Project Objectives ........... .........................   1
Project Description    .     .................................. .   2
Conclusions Regarding Setting Project Objectives ......    3
Recommendations Regarding the Setting
of Project Objectives .       ..............................   3
II. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROGRAM COORDINATION
Comision de Pomento Minero ....... . .........       .    4
Fideicomiso de Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos ......     5
Consejo de Recursos Minerales ........................     5
Programa Especial Complementario para la Pequena
y Mediana Mineria ................. .    6
Flow of Funds ................................ ..............  8
Subloan Approval Process .......... ............ # ......  9
Technical Assistance Program ..................zu ......   9
Summary      ............................ .... .   10
III. UTILIZATION OF LOAN RESOURCES
Background        ...........................................   11
Overall Financing Plan ...............................   13
Uses of Project Funds ................................   15
Size of Subloans        .     .  ......       ....... .    15
Types of Enterprises                 . ............ .    16
PM Subprojects .................................... . ..  16
CRM Subprojects ..........      ............. .    16
Summary of the Aggregate of PECAM I Operation ........   16
Aggregate Economic and Social Benefits   .     ........    6
Employment Generation ........................ ........    17
Financial and Economic Rate of Return ................    17
IV. LOAN PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
CPM's PECAM Loan Portfolio ...........................   18
CRK/PECAM Loan Portfolio .............................   18
This document has a ntrkled dWnbutbn and may be used by redpints only in f potfonmaw
of thetr offlcnia duties Its contents may not othemie be disclood without Wodd halt authoiationf



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont-)
Page No.
FM's Loan Portfolio..................................    19
Accounting and Financial Reporting...... ..............    19
V.  SUHMAY OF PROJECT AND LESSONS LEARNED...............
Project Objectives .... o...................o .......    20
Project Execution ............. ........ o............ ...  21
Project  Results..          .......  ..........    -  .... ... .  21
Some Lessons for the Future .........................    22
ANNEX I -  A Note on Statement of Project Objective   ......  24
ANNEX II    Statistical Tables                                 26
ANNEX III - PECAN's Comments on the PCR                        32
ANNEX IV - Response to the Borrower's Comments on the PCR    34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM - SCALE MINING DEVmLOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1820-ME)
Preface
1.       This report presents an evaluation of the results achieved under
the Bank's first loan in support of Mexican small and medium scale mining
(SMM), Loan 1840-ME. The US$40 million loan was intended to help advance
SMM sector growth and a number of institutional objectives. The loan was
made to the Nacional Financiera S.A. (NAFIN). The assistance and
cooperation from the Government, the Borrower, the executing agencies and
other enterprises, during the project completion mission, is greatly
appreciated.
2.       The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Bank's
Latin American and Caribbean Country Department II. The PCR is based on a
review of the Staff Appraisal and President's Reports, loan documents,
supervision reports, project files and the findings of a mission to Mexico
in March 1989. It presents a factual review of the operations of the
project (para 2.02), the extent to which the main objectives of the project
were achieved (para 2.06), the uses to which PECAM program resources were
put and the results of the investments made (para 3.05). A completion
report prepared by PECAM was received from NAFINSA. However, the
subproject data base presented in the PECAM report cannot be reconciled
with the subproject data base for Loan 1820-ME, and an analysis of the
outcome of a sample of 25Z of the subprojects financed under the loan,
visualized as a centerpiece of the report, was not completed by PECAM.
3.       The Project Completion Report has been reviewed by the Government,
the Borrower and the participating agencies. Their comments on the PCR and
suggestions for inclusions have been incorporated into the document as
Annex TII. The Bank's observations on their comments are included as
Annex IV.



m.3@X r4|t  S1
2} * S f S@
L1I!! ; Ii                 F  
[jI1I;a



- iiu -
CUJLAATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISSURSEMENT
FY81   FY82   FY8$    FY64   FY66   FY68   FY07   FY88
Appraisal Estimt.
(USS* million)        2.5   14.5   82.6   40.0    -           -       -      -
Actual (USS million)  --      4.6    5.0   18.1   16.0   82.4   82.6   81.4 bh
Actual as X of
Apprisl (M)          0      11.8   12.6   82.8   82.5   61.0   82.0   78.6
Dote of Final
Disburements-: 12/19/88
Prolect Dat..
Original Plan        Actual
First Mention In Files             -                   10/01/78
Megoti ati n                     02/11/80              02/11/80
Bord Approval                    08/25/80              08/25/80
Signing (Loan Agreement Date)    08/18/60              08/18/80
WO.Wt                            11/18/8C              09/25/81
Closing DOat                     08/80/84              06/81/88
*/ Reprsnit refund of a US21.4 million special account balance.



STAFF INPUTS
FY79   FY80    FY81   FY82   F88  FY84  FY8          Fy88    FY7        TAL
Identitficatlon/
Prep"erlon        25.08  29.05                                                          54,18
Appreisal          22.16                                                                 22.15
Nebgeoltlons        8.02                                                                  8.02
Supervision                        8.70  18.85  2.24   18.62 SS.66   8.80    2.42   87.18
TOTAL           60.25  29.05   8.70  18.86  2.24   16.82  85.56   8.80   2.42   1".48
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrowers           Nacional Financtiers, S.A.
Executing Agencieso  Comlsion de Fosanto Minero
Consejo do Recurseo Minerales
Fidelcosiso Mineral.. no Metalico. Mexicano.
Follow-on Prolects:
Name: bScond Smell and Medium Scale Mining Devolopment Project
Credit Number: 256-ME
Amount (USS million): 105
Approval Date: 10/16/85



SEIMSION MISSLON  ATA
Portor.mns. Prtfotance   Te of
p~       No. Per  Total OM   Snectalist    Status          Trend      Proble
1ta         2          22         *,e           a           B           n/d
12/8S        X                     b             3           B           1
8/U         2           2         b,d           ntr         n/r         n/d
6/64/       a          20         s*b,c,        2           2           M
9/U         2           a         b,b           2           2           M
TOTAL                  6
o - evlronum f en er
b - opertions offiear
o - eos'inslet
4 -  dlnistretive
n/r - ratlng not prepare
ft/d - ot df aind
M - Manageme  Problen
UP Mission.



- vi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MXCO
SMAEL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 1820-ME
HLMIGHTS
1.       A loan of US$ 40 million to Nacional Financiera, S.A. for a First
Small and Medium Hining Project was approved by the Bank's Board on March
25, 1980. The objectives of the project were very broad, and involved
exploiting the full market potential of the mining sector, activating some
of the least developed regions of Mexico, reversing the sector's slow
growth of the 1970's, and generating employment especially among relatively
low income groups. In order to carry out these objectives, the project was
expected to financet (i) investment in SMM enterprises; (ii) the
construction of beneficiation plants and laboratory facilities and the
purchase of equipment for the parastatal executing agencies for the
project; and (iii) training and technical assistance to the executing
agencies. The Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequena y
Mediana Hineria (PECAM), was created to manage the project through a
coordinating committee supported by a technical secretariat.
2.       Bank funds amounting to US$31.4 million were actually disbursed,
along with the Government's counterpart contributions, amounting to an
estimated US$34 million equivalent in Mexican pesos. These funds were
channelled through the PECAM to the executing agencies, Comision de Fomento
Minero (CFM), which finances small and medium scale metallic mining
operations, Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM), Mexico's geological survey
institute, and Fideicomiso de Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos (PM), a
trust fund that finances small and medium scale non-metallic mining. PECAM
is a special program established for the promotion and coordination of SMM
development, which operates as a second tier mechanism approving subloans
submitted by CFM and FM for subsequent approval and financing by the Bank.
Loan 1820-ME was appraised in September 1979 and approved in March 1980.
It became effective in December 1980 after CFM's board and FM's technical
committee adopted the PECAM guidelines. The project started slowly. Metal
prices had declined sharply, investment demand was therefore limited, and
interest rate problems emerged as inflation increased. As a result, loan
comnitments were stopped in November 1981. An agreement between the
Government and the Bank on interest re.q enabled disbursements to begin
again in November 1982. Amendments we:_ subsequently proposed by NAhIN and
agreed to by the Bank in December 1983 to replace the interest rate by a
floating rate formula and to reduce excessively restrictive and complex
loan covenants. 1 Other changes were also introduced to help speed
1/ The Loan Agreement provided for a highly directed credit, with quotas
for each financial intermediary and for each type of financing
(equipment, working capital, etc.), and the interest rate was fixed and
tied to adjustments in the average cost of funds (ACF) index.



- ;vii -
utilization oZ the loans a USS 3.5 million special account was established;
the Bank's disbursement percentage was raised to a uniform 752 for all
subprojects; detailed allocation criteria for different types of goods
being financed were dropped and working capital financing was allowed, and
CRM was permitted to act as a financial intermediary in lending for
exploration programs.
3.       As a result of the more flexible financing conditions,
disbursements increased rapidly, and most of the loan Was disbursed in
1984-85. As no beneficiation plants were financed and no lease financing
was granted, most disbursements involved lending for private sector
development. More enterprises were financed (182) than had been estimated
at appraisal (135), and the average subloan amount (US$ 280,000) was
smaller than the appraisal estimate (US$ 393,000). indicating that the
project was more successful in reaching smaller scale enterprises than had
been anticipated during appraisal. As metal prices surged in 1984-85, a
second SMH project, Loan 2546-ME, amounting to US$105.0 million, was
appraised, and approved by the Bank's Board in October 1985. Bank and
counterpart funds were scheduled to be channelled under similar
institutional arrangements. Loan 1820-ME vas fully committed, but several
large subprojects did not go forward, and the loan was closed in November
1986 and an undisburs d balance of US$8.6 million was cancelled.
4.       Although the project was successful in channelling most of the
loan for private sector SMM development, it suffered from serious flaws
which hindered the achieving of other goals. Overall, its objectives were
simply too broad to be achievable under the project design that was
adopted. Also, they did not reflect constraints on further growth imposed
by sector policies, nor was any attempt made to see if they were compatible
with existing institutional objectives. Eventually, it became clear that
the project's institutional structure was unsuitable for carrying out the
project as designed. PECAM was never adequately managed or staffed to carry
out its functions; it did not help train CFM, CRM and EM staff, nor did its
subproject review lead to any improvement in the quality of the executing
agencies portfolio. In addition, neither PECAM nor CRM had the capability
to act as financial intermediaries, yet both assumed this role, with the
Bank's concurrence, without a proper assessment of what would be needed to
prepare them for this role. No system of project monitoring was
established which might have been able to assess the impact of the project
and to quantify the benefits derived from it, and PECAM failed to carry out
a survey of a sample of project beneficiaries, which could have indicated
if the project's objectives had been met.
5.       One index of performance, is the status of loans made under the
project. CFM has about 352 of its project related loan portfolio in non-
performance status. PM's direct social lending under PECAM I is about 252
in arrears and CRM has collected on only a nominal percentage of overdue
payments. For PM, direct social lending proved to be unsustainable and it
became a second tier lending operation. CRM is no longer financing
exploration programs, and CFM is moving toward replacing direct lending
with second tier operations. While the original project concept proved not
to be sustainable, the borrower has made pragmatic adjustments and will
continue to provide needed credits to the sector which under the loan is
estimated to have increased national mining sector capacity by about 72.



- viii -
6.       On January 1, 1989, PM and CFM became a single consolidated
operating entity and FM's competent managers and professional staff, who
assumed overall responsibility for the merged enterprises have already
taken important measures to improve CFM's administration and operations.
It is expected that CFM/FM will replace PECAM and will emerge as a second-
tier credit facility serving the wide-ranging development needs of the
whole mining sector.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MIMING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 1820-ME
I.  PIOJECT DESIGN AND OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1.01     The project was identified in October/November 1978 by a Bank
mining project preparation mission that evaluated the development potential
of the small and medium miinng (SM) subsector and the quality of
institutional support available. The project was prepared by the
Government in cooperation with the Bank in June 1979 taking into account
the findings of the earlier identification mission. The project was
approved by the Bank's Board in March 1980, and became effective in
December 1980.
Sector Background
1.02     Mexico has a long tradition as a mining country and has a broad
base of mine workers and well trained engineers and managers. This highly
skilled mining labor force receives wages which are well below those of
most other mining countries, helping to make Mexican labor costs in mining
highly competitive by international standards. Tb-- .echnology of modern
Mexican mining, both private (large and medium sized) and state owned also
compares favorably internationally. Mexico's small scale mining subsector
uses more labor intensive methods, but is also economically very
competitive because of the high quality of ore that it exploits. The
sector is denominated by large Mexican controlled private companies and by
the state-owned enterprises (SOEs). These two groups control 901 of the
output of the sector. Small and medium mining (SMK) controls the remaining
10?, with each of these subsectors producing about 52. Although the
potential for further growth is considerable, sector policies impose
serious constraints on growth of the sector. Existing mining legislation
seriously impedes foreign investment, because it constrains foreign
shareholding and management control of mining enterprises. It also
restricts access of private investors to mineral deposits in reserved
areas, requires very lengthy and cumbersome procedures for obtaining
concessions coupled with minimal requirements for developing them, and
imposes an outmoded mining taxation system on potential Investors. (See
Annex III for Borrowers's comuents on recent policy.
Prolect Obiectives
1.03     The loan was defined as an important component of a broadly based
government initiative to develop SMK. The centerpiece of this initiative,
which the Bank helped to formulate, was the PECAN Program. The objectives
of the project (and of PECAM) wera very broad and generally of a sector-
wide nature, (Annex 1, page 1). Specifically, these objectives were to:
(i) exploit the full market potential of the mining sector;
(ii) activate some of the least developed regions of Mexico;
(iii) reverse the sector's slow growth of the 1970's; and
(iv) generate employment, especially among relatively low-income
groups.



Project Description
1.04     The project as approved by the Board on March 25, 1980, was
designed to provide investment finance: (a) through CFM and FM for the
equipment and working capital needs of viable SMM enterprises for the
purposes of mine preparation, extraction and the beneficiation/
concentration of minerals; (b) through CFM and FM loans for evaluative
exploration on a shared risk or a secured risk basis; (c) the construction
by CPM and FM of regional beneficiation/concentration plants to expand SMM
access to such facilities; and (d) technical assistance programs to helps
(i) expansion of CRM's assistance to SM0 through the acquisition of
additional exploration equipment, expansion of laboratories and training of
professional staff; (ii) training of CPM and FM professional staff in
subproject evaluation, supervision and control, and the expansion of CFM
and FM laboratory facilities in about four regions; and (iii) improvements
in the quality of technical advise and laboratory assistance provided by
CFM, CRM and FM to SMM clients.
1.05     PECAM, a coordinating body establiched within the Ministry of
Energy, Mining and Parastatal Industry (SEMIP) to promote the SMM
development initiative and to coordinate policy and procedures for the
three agencies that would channel resources (paras 2.10-2.15), was
considered an essential component of the project. PECAM would also serve
as a credit committee with responsibility for review and approval of all
subprojects over MP10 million, equivalent to US$417,000 at the time of loan
effectiveness.
1.06     The loan was made to NAPINSA, the government development bank
acting as the borrowing agent for the government. It was expected that the
loan of US$40 million would be used to financet
Mi) 130-140 subloans to SM through CFM and PM to finance machinery,
equipment and civil works;1
(ii) 150-200 long term equipment leases with options to buy;
(iii) construction of 10 regional beneficiation plants; and
(iv) purchase of laboratory equipment by CFM, CRM and FM end
exploration equipment by CRM.
Local cost financing for working capital and ore reserve development were
not initially included as the Bank was concerned about not financing more
than the estimated foreign exchange content of the project. On that basis,
1/  Small and medium mines were defined as follows:  Small mining
enterprise had annual production not more than MP20 million (t1S$835,000
equivalent at the time of loan approval) with beneficiation capacity of
not more than 100 tons per day (TPD) for metallics and 150 TPD for non-
metallic minerals. Medium mines were defined as having an annual
production of not more than MP150 million (US$6.3 million at the time
of loan approval) with physical capacity of beneficiation plants not to
exceed 800 TPD. The production values were to be adjusted periodically
for foreign exchange variations for selected baskets of minerals.



- 3 -
the loan was expected to cover up to 452 of machinery and equipment costs
and 252 of civil works construction of buildings and mine development.
Conclusions Regarding Setting Proiect Objectives
A.       The first three of the four project objectives overstated the
potential development impact of this initial SMK lending effort, given:
(i) the small size of the loan and the limited segment of the industry it
could be expected to serve; (ii) the absence of a significant policy
content and provisions for comprehensive institutional reform; and (iii)
the lack of significant technical assistance efforts directed to the least
developed SMH regions.
B.       While the fourth objective, to generate employment  especially
among the lower income groups', was a more manageable objective under the
loan, to fully achieve this goal would have required that special
mechanisms be established to promote such lending among artisan miners and
that special technical assistances measures be taken to fully complement
the lending efforts. The project provided neither the specific promotion
nor the technical assistance support required and FM's efforts to support
small producer cooperatives did not meet with success (para 4.04). Also,
the project design failed to take into account the potential environmental
impact of the project.
C.       The project design did not provide for an institutional mechanism
for setting operational goals or for measuring the degree of achievement of
project objectives. In the final analysis, most project objectives
remained statements of intentions essentially unlinked to the design of the
project. Had better focussed efforts been made during project design to
analyze whether the loan amount and institutional mechanisms established
were sufficient to achieve the hroad project objectives, the range of
objectives would likely have been more modest in nature and more
achievable.
Recommendations Regarding the Setting of Proiect Obiectivess
1.07     During appraisal, a review process should have been established to
ensure thatt (i) project objectives were realistic in terms of what could
be achieved within the scope of the loan and under existing sector
policies; (ii) project objectives had been framed as statements of purpose
and management intent, rather than as broad generalities; (iii) the design
of the project would be adequate to support the achievement of each project
goal through specific inclusion of the necessary policies, adequate
technical and supervisory support and that the linkages between the
proposed project design and objectives had been made explicit; and (iv)
periodic monitoring of the project's objectives by its management would
ensure that it was moving toward its goals.
1.08     All SARs should include a section on the specific steps that would
be taken to monitor project impacts and such monitors should be in place at
the outset of the project. Thus, quantitative information on achievement
of realistic project objectives and benefits would be gathered as the
project advances, to guide management and measure project achievements.



-4-
II. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROGRAM COORDINATION
2.01     To remedy the lack of access by small and medium mining
enterprises to bank financing, the Government had established credit
facilities within CPM to finance metallic mining and in FM to finance non-
metallic mine development. CRM would provide geological survey and
exploration services on a fee, credit or percentage of recovery basis. The
Bank loan vas designed to integrate these three entities into a broad
ranging program to finance the investment requirements of the SM0 sector,
under the coordination and direction of a newly formed second-tier
assistance unit (PECAM) created within SEMIP (para 2.09).
The Comision de Fomento Minero
2.02     CFM was created in 1938 to advance the development and
exploitation of Mexico's mineral potential. Its corporate objectives are
tot Mi) serve as a holding company on behalf of the Government for
investments in mining and related companies and as an executing agency for
large-scale projects in the public sector, (ii) develop mining by providing
concessional financial assistance to private or mixed-ownership, small and
medium-scale mining enterprises, (iii) operate regional beneficiation and
other plants designed to process minerals produced by medium and small
private mines, and (iv) provide technical assistance to mining enterprises,
mostly of medium and small size. CFM's main policy-making body is its
Board of Directors, which is headed by SEMIP and includes representatives
of the Ministries of Finance and Public Credit and of Commerce, NAPINSA and
the private mining industry. At appraisal, CGM maintained twelve regional
offices throughout Mexico to provide technical assistance and eight
promotion offices. CPM had a staff of 234 professionals, about half of
which were stationed in its field offices. CPM's management and staff were
considered to be adequately qualified, competent and well-motivated for its
tasks, which included operating affiliated companies, mainly mines,
beneficiation plants and its credit facilities (para 2.28).
2.03     Up to the mid-1970's, CPM emphasized its roles as a holding
company for the Government in mining-related enterprises, and as a promoter
of mining projects in the public sector. CFM's financial assistance to
private SMM had been small until then, although its regional beneficiation
plant and technical assistance services were valued instruments of support
to SMl.  Starting in 1975, CFM gave greater emphasis to its credit program
in support of SMM. Annual approvals of credit and leasing operations during
1978 and 1979 amounted to about US$26 million equivalent, more than twice
as high as during the three year period 1975-1977. CFM expected to
increase the value of financial commitments to the sector by 30 percent
annually between 1980 and 1982. To undertake this task, CFM was to
strengthen its policies and procedures for project and credit evaluation
and for project supervision and portfolio control. The loan, as it finally
developed, provided only nominal support or assistance to CFM's credit
operations as CPM's capability to operate a multi-branch development
finance institution was substantially overestimated and PECAM's capacity to
implement technical assistance and training activities proved to be minimal
(para 2.11-2.13).



- 5 -
Fideicomiso de MLinerales no Metalicos Mexicanos
2.04     FM was established in 1974 as a Government trust fund adminlstered
by NAPINSA to stimulate exploratLon, exploitation and marketing of non-
metallic minerals in Mexico. It was considered that a separate
organization was required because the mining, processing and marketing of
non-metallics is different from that of metallic minerals and because
deposits of these minerals frequently occur in eiidos land,2 presenting
special mining and other legal problems associated with joint ownership.
pHes objectives are to promote the production of non-metallic minerals by
assisting the private sector and ejidos through credit, technical
assistance, creating infrastructure and, when necessary, taking the lead in
carrying out projects.
2.05     When PM started operations in 1976, it concentrated on
establishing and operating mining companies to carry out projects
LdentLfied by the Government as having high priority. The volume of its
credit operations for non-affiliated companies amounted to a low US$2.2
mlllion (equivalent) up to 1980. In compliance with the Government's
desire to extend support to small and medium mines, PM planned to expand
its credit operations and to start equipment leasing. The latter was
expected to fill an important need, particularly for small mining
enterprises which were unable to obtain financing for equipment because of
an insufficient credit record. PM also considered diversification of its
operations to include the installation of regional beneficiation plants.
It was expected that this function would enable it to offer services in the
non-metallic mineral field parallel to those provided by CFM in the
metallic mineral sector.
2.06     FM is governed by a Technical Committee headed by SEMIP and
Includes representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Commerce and
Programming and Budgeting, CFM and NAPINSA, and other concerned Government
departments. FM's management and staff of 52 professionals were correctly
judged to be reasonably well prepared, competent and suitably motivated.
PM was to carry out training programs to improve its professional staff's
skills in project evaluation and control, financial analysis and
management. Its socially oriented direct lending to eildos turned sour as
loan arrears mounted. At about the mid-point of the loan implementation
period, PM's management decided to stop direct financing and moved toward
second-tier lending operations through commercial banks. It concentrated
Lts external resources on second-tier operations and reserved selected
Government resources for its diminished, more political and higher risk
social lending operations.
Conseio de Recursos Minerales
2.07     CRM was created in 1957 as a decentralized agency operating under
SEMIP to carry out geological surveys, exploration and mineral evaluation
programs and to advise the Government on various aspects of mining
development, such as the establishment of National Mineral Reserves, the
granting of concessions, and on all matters related to the exploration,
exploLtation and preservation of mineral resources. Promising deposits are
turned over to CFM or PM for exploitation. CRM also provides geological
21 Blidos are cooperatives created under the agrarian reform laws.



advice and services to mining enterprises in the private sector through its
field offices and technical assistance through its laboratories. The
latter provide assaying services and carry out mineralogical studies, for a
fee. It also contracts to undertake exploration programs for a fee or on a
risk-sharing equity investment basis. CRM's operations are directed from
its head office which moved to Pachuca from Mexico City in late 1988.
Three quarters of its staff are presently based at 27 regional offices
distributed throughout the country; it employs about 625 professionals,
more than half of whom are geologists.
Programa Especial Complementario para la Peauena y Mediana Mineria
2.08     PECAM is headed by a Coordinating Committee established within
SEMIP to coordinate the activities of CFM, FM and CRM under the program.
The Coordinating Committee, which consists of the Subsecretary of SEMIP and
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, NAFINSA, CFM
and FM, sets policy for PECAM and serves as a credit committee to approve
subloans submitted by CFM and FM to PECAM for its approval. The
Coordinating Committee is in turn served by a Technical Committee which
administers the PECAM directorate. PECAM functions as a second- or third-
tier financial facility with substantial overall authority in implementing
the program by modifying procedures, managing funds flow, and approving all
subprojects (for all loans more than MP10 miliion and at PECAM's discretion
for smaller loans). PECAM also was granted responsibility for training CFM
and FM staff in project identification, appraisal and supervision.
2.09     The SAR stated that PECAM would, in the future, be adequately
staffed to perform its second-tier functions of subproject review and
approval, and to provide technical assistance to the executing agencies on
financial, credit or administrative matters. However, the Bank's
expectations with respect to the quality of performance of PECAM's contract
staff were not fulfilled (para 2.13). Finally, the SAR did not clearly
established the logic or the necessity of setting up a second-tier
development banking facility within SEMIP or the rationale for placing this
development banking responsibility under the technical leadership of
SEMIP's General Directorate of Mines and Metallurgy.3
2.10     In line with the regulations and function approved for PECAM
(Annex 5, SAR) the following organizational structure emerged for the PECAM
operations
3/ The President's Report differed from the SAR and did not fully reflect
the important role that PECAM was expected to play in the project.



-7-
PECAM
Coordinating Committee
Pres. Subsecretary of Mines & Energy        - Policy
Rep. Secretary of Hacienda & Credit         - Credit Committee
NAPINSA                         (approval of subloans)
FM
. 1              1        - Appraisal and Approval
Technical Committee                  of Subprojects
Subsecretary General - PECAM            - Technical Studies for PECAM
- Data Base & Coordination
with NAFINSA
- Channel for Program Funds
- Liaison with Bank
Director - PECAM
: _     _          __ I
Subdirector - P'".AM
Proiect         Withdrawals and
Evaluation Dept      Records Dept
-Chief             -Chief
-Prof. Staff       -Prof. Staff
-Support Staff     -Support Staff
PECAM consisted of about 10 professional and support staff. With the
ezepction of the Director and Subdirector, most of the professional staff
was hired on a temporary basis, with no tenure or other incentives to
build up a corps of motivated and efficient professionals.
2.11     PECAM, acting as a second-tier facility for CFM's and FM's direct
operations, and as a third tier facility for FM's operations with
commercial banks, reviewed 19 "Al subprojects (i.e. subprojects above the
subloan *free limits of US$400,000) submitted by CFM and 18 'A' subprojects
sent by FM. Prior to presentation to PECAM, CFM's Credit/Technical
Committee had to approve subprojects. In the case of FM's second-tier
operations, both the commercial banks and FM's credit committees had
approved the subprojects prior to their submission to PECAM's Technical



- 8 -
Committee. In line with its interpretation of regulations, PECAM's staff
reviewed the credit application/appraisal reports and rewrote the loan
application/appraisal documents and presented their interpretation of the
subproject to the Technical Committee and then to the Coordinating
Committees for its consideration. Under the multi-layered approval
procedures established, the total approval-to- reimbursement process
averaged about three months to complete ("B' projects took a little less
time and "Al subprojects, which needed to be approved by the Bank, took a
little more time).
2.12     Flow of Funds.  The management of project funds illustrated the
complexity of the system established to manage a single FM transaction.
1)
H}>">Contral Dank of Meaxco (#l)S ) ))    . (Borrower)
2)                                             <(Request. funds for Project "Am((
<(-National Trasury (NT)              Special  (C
(Countrpart Funds)                  Loon
Account >
)>) Special Funds              >>NAFISA snds CFI Tr"sury
check for Projct 'A'>>
>>Sends 'AO subprojot for approval>> ))>>>
-Approves 'A'
FM       ))                     )>)  PECAN    I Subprojoct
(($Snde check for *A<((             -Advises CFN
Tressury to pay FM
<<Sends Advise on Report   CFP
CRU          of Counterpart from NT<(  ireausury
Project unit                            D pertment    )
CFM
Project Unit
- Speciol Counterpart funds relesed to aenceos In accordane with a fined schedule.
- CFP Treasury rec lved advise on *aI recelpt. of counterpart fund.
- Upon repaymnt, Principel and Interet wont to PECAN'. Speciol Fund.
While the SAR contemplated that NAFINSA would channel funds directly to
CFM, CRM and PM, reality was more complex as PECAM ultimately became
involved as the agency of financial control, using CFM's treasury
department as its financial agent.



-9-
2.13     Subloan Approval Process.  As the project was implemented, PECAM
took control over the pace of subloan approvals and flow of funds. At the
outset of the project it was contemplated that the specific approval of
PECAM would be required for all investment operations of over MP10 million
(then about US$417,000 equivalent). However, PECAM had authority to review
a selective sample of smaller subprojects and it decided to exercise this
authority and reviewed 80 of the total of 94 subloans which exceeded
US$200,000. For most subloans, PECAM staff reappraised and presented a new
report to the PECAM Coordinating Committee, which met approximately once a
month as the senior credit committee. PECAM was never staffed to serve as
an advisory agency to the CFM or FM, as was contemplated in the design of
the loan. Rather, it became simply another processing layer.
2.14     There is no evidence to conclude that PECAM's subproject review
procedures led to any improvements in the quality of CFM's or FM's loan
portfolio. Indeed, a Bank supervision mission during 1984 found that
PECAM's interventions in the subloan review processes were inadequate and a
major bottleneck to the reactivation of Loan 1820-ME. In late 1984, a Bank
follow-up supervision mission proposed that PECAM's expanding role as the
central agency responsible for the operation of the loan be reduced. The
mission reported that PECAM had emerged as la political and bureaucratic
'institution' that neither has the capability nor the staff to centralize
decision-making and program actions.' The mission proposed that PECAM
accept a reduced role as advisor. To speed up disbursements the Bank's
mission proposed, 'in view of the poor technical capability of its
(PECAM's) staff and its administrative inadequacies," that PECAM's role in
the subproject review cycle be substantially reduced.
2.15     It was never clearly defined how PECAM's technical secretariat,
that consisted of a temporary contract staff of geologists and economists
(no bankers), located within the General Directorate of Mines and
Metallurgy in the mining subsecretariat, could be expected to provide
technical leadership to a credit project. During 1982-88, PECAM's
leadership turned over some four times and its contract staff also changed
frequently. It became clear that PECAM could not positively assist the
implementing agencies because they did not have qualified financial
professionals to do the job.
2.16     In September 1984, a Bank supervision mission presented a well-
documented proposal to reduce PECAM's bureaucratic impediments to more
efficient project operations by cutting back on PECAM's operational
responsibilities, but this was not acted upon, and under a Second Small and
Medium Mining Project, PECAM was granted even greater operational
authority, making it responsible for managing a technical assistance
program designed to improve the overall technical quality of CFM's and FM's
credit operations.
2.17     The Technical Assistance Program (TAP) for Loan 1820-ME
contemplated total disbursements of MP235 million (equivalent to about
US$9.5 million at loan signing). Of that amount the Government would
provide 582 and the Bank 42Z. In line with the perceived needs of the
project at time of appraisal, 93.7? of total TAP funds were allocated for
procurement of laboratory and exploration equipment and a nominal 6.32 was
dedicated to consulting services and training. Almost 66T of total TAP
funds were earmarked to upgrade CRMI's geological survey and exploration



- 10 _
activities while only 22 of total TAP funds were dedicated to training CFM
or FM staff that would be engaged in the credit operations. This clearly
proved to be an inappropriate allocation of TAP resources. Technical
assiatance proved to be mainly budgetary support for equipment purchases
and largely ignored the institution building needs of the executing
agencies until 1984.
2.18     The SAR substantially missed the mark in its assessments of the
capabilities of CFM's and FM to rapidly and efficiently expand their SMM
credit operations. A large amount of work was devoted to the preparation
of operating guidelines for CFM and FM which could have formed the basis
for a detailed evaluation of, inter alia, actual operating procedures and
managerial functions, accounting policies and branch coordinating
mechanisms. In the end, much of these detailed operational and managerial
control mechanisms proved to be inadequate or incorrect, at least in-so-far
as they related to credit operations. Thus, the TAP was inadequate to
address the wide range of staff and management training requirements and to
implement the policy and procedural changes that would be required to
advance the program in line with expectations. Loan 1820-ME sharply
underestimated human resources training needs and overestimated the ability
of CFM to organize itself and its widespread branch network to carry out a
program of for-profit lending based upon strong portfolio performance and
loan recovery. The SAR also overestimated the capability of SEMIP to mount
a second- and third-tier discount facility (PECAH) that would be capable of
helping CFM and FM to become efficient and effective development lending
institutions, and under Loan 1820-ME little technic&a assistance support
was provided for PECAM so that they might learn to efficiently operate as a
second- and third-tier credit facility.
2.19     Summary:  During 1983-1984 the Bank mounted a determined
supervision effort and reappraised CPM's capabilities, defined managerial
and communication problems and launched a series of technical assistance
programs to resolve the problems identified. As a result of these efforts,
in October 1983, effectiveness of the proposed loan amendments were
conditioned on the formal approval by Mexican authorities of a satisfactory
Project Execution Document highlighting the following points to be executed
by PECAM and its participating institutions (CRM, PM and CRM) as followst
(a) development of a collective action program to advance the project; (b)
implementation of a promotional and technical assistance program with a
more active involvement of the regional offices of CFM, FM and CRM; (c)
establishment of a personnel development and training program; (d)
implementation of a portfolio control and financial information system; and
(e) establishment by mid-1984 of a program of assistance to PECAM staff to
help them to plan and program credit operations and to increase their
managerial, administrative and promotional skills. On that basis, it was
expected that there would be more rapid disbursement by CFM and FM of funds
for higher quality projects. Technical training and consultative planning
efforts were undertaken in 1985 but were too little and too late to have
any real impact upon the outcome of the project. Preparation and execution
of Loan 1820-ME was flawed in that it did not provide for substantial
training of CFM, FM and PECAM staff prior to and during early project
Implementation stages.
2.20     Regarding CPM, the design of the project did not adequately take
into accounts (i) the relatively low level of banking skills available in



- 11 -
CFM, which should not have been surprising given its historic orientation
and its staffing as a mining company; (ii) the lower than adequate levels
of credit management experience and the absence of financial and accounting
skills in the area of banking; (iii) the high degree of difficulty inherent
in building an efficient decentralized development finance organization
that would be staffed mainly by professionals oriented toward mining
technology and mill operations; and (iv) the fact that CFMas credit
philosophy was socially oriented and that it had no policy or concept in
support of profitability or cash management. Thus, unlike the credit
operations of a bank, there was no professional accountability in CFM for
bad loans approved or for financial losses sustained.
III. UTILIZATION OF LOAN RESOURCES
Background
3.01     The implementation of Loan 1820-ME started slowly in 1981, and
disbursements were less than 202 of the expected levels as of December 31,
1982, in large measure due to the program's inability to fully comply with
the loan's interest rate covenant. According to an amendment to the Loan
Agreement on January 16, 1981, peso-denominated sub-loans would bear fixed
interest rates whose average would equal the average of ACF (average cost
of funds to the banking system) for the preceding twelve months, plus 1.5
percentage points. Rates would be adjusted whenever the ACF index for the
three consecutive months differs by at least three points from the twelve-
month average ACF used for the previous adjustment, but at least once a
year. Between November 1981 and September 1982, the ACF index was not
adjusted by the Government, and PECAM was therefore not in a position to
comply with the interest rate covenant and, therefore, voluntarily
refrained from presenting subloans for Bank financing. An agreement
between the Bank and the Government on interest rates for a six-month
period which brought the rate established under the project into line with
the ACF, enabled PECAM to present withdrawal applications between September
1982 and February 1983.
3.02     Although the interest rate problem was resolved by September 1982,
because of sharp declines in international metal prices, demand for credit
had dried up. In early 1983, subproject presentation to the Bank stopped
once again because of lagging interest rate adjustments. This difficult
problem was once again resolved on the baais of close coordination between
NAFINSA and the Bank, but, as the project had applied almost all of its
counterpart funds to keeping the program going while the Bank funds were
not available, PECAM ran short of funds to cofinance subprojects under the
Bank loan.
3.03     Against this background of stop and go, the Bank and NAFINSA
negotiated several major changes in the project which were adopted under an
agreed Project Execution Document (PED) whose submission to the Bank, in
acceptable form in October 1983, was a condition of effectiveness of the
Special Action Program (SAP) designed to restructure the loan. To speed
project lending activities the PED provided for the following: (i)



- 12 -
strengthening of regional offices of the executing agencies and their
preparation of plans and promotion programs to increase lending and
technical assistance activity; (ii) selected changes in the organizational
structures of the PECAM institutions; (iii) manpower training programs for
PECAM and the executing agencies; and (iv) development by the PECAM
institutions of needed information systems and computer processing
capability to provide their managements with operational and financial
information.
3.04     An interim fixed interest rate adjustment formula was also agreed
to, which would be replaced by a floating rate formula. In line with
Government policy to direct credits to sectors using interest rate
incentives, interest rates for loans to metallic mineral operations were
set at 402, and non-metallic are 432 and 57Z, depending upon geographic
location. The interest rate on equipment leasing was set at 602. Given
the interest rate bias in favor of borrowing and lack of institutioual
preparation in this special area of activity the loan's leasing component
never got off the ground.
3.05     Additional steps implemented under the SAP to improve loan
implementation and help accelerate disbursement were the followings
(i) a US$3.5 million revolving fund (special account) was established;
(ii) the Bank's disbursement percentage was raised to an appropriate
uniform level of 75X for all subloans from the restrictive 452 for
equipment and 25Z of civil works;
(iii) detailed allocation formulae for loan funds under which maximum
lending limits were set for equipment, civil works, technical
assistance, etc., were dropped;
(iv) working capital was made financiable under the project; and
(v) CRM was permitted to participate as a financial intermediary.
Items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) removed unwarranted restraints on lending
that had been established by the Bank under the initial project design.
The aggregate financing limit (i.e., that the Bank not provide more than
502 of total project financing) was not surpassed as a result of raising
the percentage of subproject financing restriction (para 3.03 (ii)] as the
Bank financed only about 432 of total project costs (Table 1). The notion
to declare CRM, Mexico's institution for geological survey, a financial
intermediary (item v) proved to have its problems, as CRM's capability to
serve as a credit facility was neither appraised nor assisted, and the idea
that exploration lends itself to high interest non-guaranteed lending, was
never the subject of a careful review that was warranted.
3.06     CRM's management was not equipped to supervise a credit operation,
which is reflected ia the fact that as of mid-1988 total interest and
principal due under its exploration loans amounted to almost MP774 million
of which only MP50 million was repaid. Regarding the financing of initial
exploration, normally such operations are too risky to be the subject of a
loan. Generally, in both independent mining and petroleum operations, they
are financed as risk capital ventures.



- 11 -
CFM, which should not have *een surprising given its historic orientation
and its staffing as a mining company; (ii) the lower than adequate levels
of credit management experience and the absence of financial and accounting
skills in the area of banking; (iii) the high degree of difficulty inherent
in building an efficient decentralized development finance organization
that w:uld be staffed mainly by professionals oriented toward mining
tectinology and mill operations; and (iv) the fact that CFM's credit
philosophy was social7y oriented and that it had no policy or concept in
support of profitability or cash management. Thus, unlike the credit
operations of a bank, there was no professional accountability in CFH for
bad loans approved or for financial losses sustained.
III. UTILIZATION OF LOAN RESOURCES
Background
3.01     The implementation of Loan 1820-ME started slowly in 1981, and
disbursements were less than 20S of the expected levels as of December 31,
1982, in large measure due to the program's inability to fully comply with
the loan's interest rate covenant. According to an amendment to the Loan
Agreement on January 16, 1981, peso-denominated sub-loans would bear fixed
interest rates whose average would equal the average of ACF (average cost
of funds to the banking system) for the preceding twelve months, plus 1.5
percentage points. Rates would be adjusted whenever the ACF index for the
three consecutive months differs by at least three points from the twelve-
month average ACP used for the previous adjustment, but at least once a
year. Between November 1981 and September 1982, the ACF index was not
adjusted by the Goverxnent, and PECAM was therefore not in a position to
comply with the interest rate covenant and, therefore, voluntarily
retrained from presenting subloans for Bank financing. An agreement
between the Bank and the Government on interest rates for a six-month
period which brought the rate established under the project into line with
the ACF, enabled PECAM to present withdrawal applications between September
1982 and February 1983.
3.02     Although the interest rate probl'm was resolved by September 1982,
because of sharp declines in international metal prices, demand for credit
had dried up. In early 1983, subproject presentation to the Bank stopped
once again because of lagging interest rate adjustments. This difficult
problem was once again resolved on the basis of close coordination between
NAFINSA and the Bank, but, as the project had applied almost all of its
counterpart funds to keeping the program going while the Bank funds were
not available, PECAM ran short of funds to cofinance subprojects under the
Bank loan.
3.03     Against this background of stop and go, the Bank and NAFINSA
negotiated several major changes in the project which were adopted under an
agreed Project Execution Document (PED) whose submission to the Bank, in
acceptable form in October 1983, was a condition of effectiveness of the
Special Action Program (SAP) designed to restructure the loan. To speed
project lending activities the PED provided for the following: (i)



- 12 -
strengthening o' regional offices of the executing agencies and their
preparation of plans and promotion programs to increase lending and
technical assistance activity; (ii) selected changes in the organizational
structures of che PECAM institutions; (iii) manpower training programs for
PECAM and the executing agencies; and (iv) development by the PECAM
institutions of needed information systems and computer processing
capability to provide their managements with operational and financial
information.
3.04     An interim fixed interest rate adjustment formula was also agreed
to, which would be replaced by a floating rate formula. In line with
Government policy to direct credits to sectors using interest rate
incentives, interest rates for loans to metallic mineral operations were
set at 402, and non-metallic are 43? and 57?, depending upon geographic
location. The interest rate on equipment leasing was set at 60%. Given
the interest rate bias in favor of borrowing and lack of institutional
preparation in this special area of activity the loan's leasing component
never got off the ground.
3.05     Additional steps implemented under the SAP to improve loan
implementation and help ac-elerate disbursement were the following:
(i) a US$3.5 million revolving fund (special account) was established;
(ii) the Bank's disbursement percentage was raised to an appropriate
uniform level of 75? for all subloans from the restrictive 45% for
equipment and 25? of civil works;
(iii) detailed allocation formulae for loan funds under which maximum
lending limits were set for equipment, civil works, technical
assistance, etc., were dropped;
(iv' working capital was made financiable under the project; and
(v) CRM was permitted to participate as a financial intermediary.
Items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) removed unwarranted restraints on lending
that had been established by the Bank under the initial project design.
The aggregate financing limit (i.e.. that the Bank not provide more than
50? of total project financing) was not surpassed as a result of raising
the percentage of subproject financing restriction [para 3.03 (ii)] as the
Bank financed only about 432 of total project costs (Table 1). The notion
to declare CRM, Mexico's institution for geological survey, a financial
intermediary (item v) proved to have its problems, as CRM's capability to
serve as a credit facility was neither appraised nor assisted, and the idea
that exploration lends itself to high interest non-guaranteed lending, was
never the subject of a careful review that was warranted.
3.06     CRM's management was not equipped to supervise a credit operation,
which is reflected in the fact that as of mid-1988 total interest and
principal due under its exploration loans amounted to almost MP774 million
of which only MP50 million was repaid. Regarding the financing of initial
exploration, normally such operations are too risky to be the subject of a
loan. Generally, in both independent mining and petroleum operations, they
are financed as risk capital ventures.



- 13 -
3.07     On the basis of the October 1983 agreement, the Closing Date was
extended to December 31, 1986 (the loan was actually closed on May 31,
1986), and the foundation for reactivating Loan 1820-ME was firmly
established. With the financial structure of the loan more flexible, the
mining sector and participating commercial banks were presented with a more
attractive loan product and despite the subsequent problems that emerged as
a result of PECAM's institutional inadequacies (paras 2.12-2.15) US$27
million in loan funds were disbursed over tae next 28 months.
Overall Financing Plan4
3.08     The outcome of Loan 1820-ME proved to be different from what had
been initially expected with respect to the level, distribution and end
uses of loan funds. Total subproject financing amounted to an estimated
US$73.3 million (equivalent) for 168 mining projects (excluding CRM
procurements) compared with the US$122 million expected for 222 subprojects
by the SAR. Both the Bank and the Government's potential contributions to
the project were under-utilized. Although the entire Bank loan was fully
committed, several large subprojects did not go forward, and the Bank
cancelled US$8.6 million in unutilized funds. The Government used portions
of its counterpart to finance about 15 subprojects to maintain project
continuity when Bank funds were not available. Had counterpart and Bank
funds been used on an equal percentage basis for all of the subprojects
financed under PECAM I, the first phase of PECAM I total project size could
have reached about US$125 million as the borrowers, intermediaries and
suppliers contributed more to subproject financing than was expected (Table
1).
3.09     Of the US$73 million total project financing under Loan 1820-ME,
PECAM (CFM, FM and CRM) financed 68? of the total. The Bank's loan
provided for 43? of total resources instead of the hoped for 5O while
Government counterpart accounted for 25S. Sub-borrowers contributed 252 to
total investment and financial intermediaries and suppliers credits
accounts for the final 7X. The Bank's estimated project plan (Table 1)
postulated a larger project (US$122 million vs. US$73 million actual), that
would be very highly leveraged (about 8 to 1), with no contributions by
financial intermediaries or by suppliers and US$55.4 millicn by the
Government, US$32.6 million by the Bank and US$12 million by the borrower.
The very high leverage ratio, implicitly assigned to the project was not
questioned during project preparation, and should have been. As it turned
out the borrowers leveraged their project financing on a 3 to 1 basis.
This was not as high as contemplated, but it was high enough to make
subloans highly vulnerable to project implementation delays and to any
negative mineral price trend. Highly leveraged financing may have
4/
PECAM prepared a Project Financing Plan for PECAM I (see PCR files)
which reports that total financing equalled US$107 million, including
the use of US$40 million in Bank funds. It appears likely that these
data were prepared based on the subloan commitment documents, not on an
actual disbursement basis. It also appears to include, under PECAM I,
subloans financed with Government funds only duriag the periods of the
loan when Bank funds were not being committed. The PCR's data base
defines the project size on the basis of disbursements and includes
where possible the subprojects in which the Bank participated.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
TABLE 1
Project Financing Planh/
(million of US$)
APPRAISAL
ESTIMATE2/
CPH    CXM    FM      Total    2    Total    Z
Sub-borrowers        6.5    -     11.7   18.2   24.8   15.0   12.0
Govt Contribution  10.0    1.1    7.1   18.2b/ 24.8   67.0   55.4
World Bank          11.7    3.3   16.3   31.3   42.7   40.0   32.6
Fin. Intermediary   -       -      3.2    3.2    4.4    -        -
Suppliers/Other      2.4    -      -       2.4    3.3    -       -
Total        $30.6   $4.4  $38.3  $73.3  100.0  122.0  100.00
No. of Subloans    74      50a/   94    218
Sources% World Bank, CFH, CRM, FM and PECAM Audit Reports
1, US dollar values of contributions to the financial plan for all
participants except the World Bank are estimates based upon conversions
into dollars of peso loan values. The estimates of FM participation
are converted from the peso values presented and are consistent with
Bank data. The estimates prepared by PECAM and by CPH vary
substantially from Bank data. PECAM estimated that the Loan financed
222 mining projects and 42 PECAM infrastructure projects with a total
value of USS 107.3 million. CFH reported that their subprojects had a
total value of US$44 million of which the World Bank financed US$22.6
million. US$11.7 million is the actual amount of Bank disbursements
for CFM subprojects.
2/ The SAR does not provide a standard project financing plan. Estimates
were derived from the SAR that estimated total project size to be
US$122 million. Subborrowers were estimated as providing for about 20Z
of total financing or US$24.4 million. This would not be feasible as
the difference between the SAR's estimate of US$107 million of Bank and
Government total contributions, and the SAR's estimated total project
financing of US$122 is equal to US$15 million or 12Z of projected
total.
a/  CRM reported 50 subloans of which 36 were for individual procurements
of laboratory equipment.
bl The Government contributed an equal amount in its financing of about
100 additional PECAM projects during 1981-86.



_ 13 -
3.07     On the basis of the October 1983 agreement. the Closing Date was
extended to December 31, 1986 (the loan was actually closed on May 31,
1986), and the foundation for reactivating Loan 1820-HE was firmly
established. With the financial structure of the loan more flexible, the
mining sector and participating commercial banks were presented with a more
attractive loan product and despite the subseque'nt problems that emerged as
a result of PECAM's institutional inadequacies (paras 2.12-2.15) US$27
million in loan funds were disbursed over the next 28 months.
Overall Financing Plan4
3.08     The outcome of Loan 1820-HE proved to be different from what had
been initially expected with respect to the level, distribution and end
uses of loan funds. Total subproject financing amounted to an estimated
US$73.3 million (equivalent) for 168 mining projects (excluding CRM
procurements) compared with the US$122 million expected for 222 subprojects
by the SAR. Both the Bank and the Government's potential contributions to
the project were under-utilized. Although the entire Bank loan was fully
committed, several large subprojects did not go forward, and the Bank
cancelled US$8.6 million in unutilized funds. The Government used portions
of its counterpart to finance about 15 subprojects to maintain project
continuity when Bank funds were not available. Had counterpart and Bank
funds been used on an equal percentage basis for all of the subprojects
financed under PECAM I, the first phase of PECAM I total project size could
have reached about US$125 million as the borrowers, intermediaries and
suppliers contributed more to subproject financing than was expected (Table
1).
3.09     Of the US$73 million total project financing under Loan 1820-ME,
PECAM (CFM, FM and CGM) financed 68Z of the total. The Bank's loan
provided for 432 of total resources instead of the hoped for 502 while
Government counterpart accounted for 25Z. Sub-borrowers contributed 252 to
total investment and financial intermediaries and suppliers credits
accounts for the final 7X. The Bank's estimated project plan (Table 1)
postulated a larger project (US$122 million vs. US$73 million actual), that
would be very highly leveraged (about 8 to 1), with no contributions by
financial intermediaries or by suppliers and US$55.4 million by the
Government, US$32.6 million by the Bank and US$12 million by the borrower.
The very high leverage ratio, implicitly assigned to the project was not
questioned during project preparation, and should have been. As it turned
out the borrowers leveraged their project financing on a 3 to 1 basis.
This was not as high as contemplated, but it was high enough to make
subloans highly vulnerable to project implementation delays and to any
negative mineral price trend. Highly leveraged financing may have
4/
PECAM prepared a Project Financing Plan for PECAM I (see PCR files)
which reports that total financing equalled US$107 million, including
the use of US$40 million in Bank funds. It appears likely that these
data were prepared based on the subloan commitment documents, not on an
actual disbursement basis. It also appears to include, under PECAM I,
subloans financed with Government funds only during the periods of the
loan when Bank funds were not being committed. The PCR's data base
defines the project size on the basis of disbursements and includes
where possible the subprojects in vhich the Bank participated.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
TABLE 1
Project Financing PlanlI
(million of U1$)
APPRAISAL
ESTIMATE2/
CFM    CRM    FM      Total    z    Total    2
Sub-borrowers        6.5    -     11.7   18.2   24.8   15.0   12.0
Govt Contribution  10.0    1.1    7.1   18.2b/ 24.8   67.0   55.4
World Bank          11.7    3.3   16.3   31.3   42.7   40.0   32.6
Fin. Intermediary   -       -      3.2    3.2    4.4    -        -
Suppliers/Other      2.4    -      -       2.4    3.3    -       -
Total        $30.6   $4.4  $38.3  $73.3  100.0  122.0  100.00
No. of Subloans    74      5Oa/   94    218
Sourcest World Bank, CFM, CRM, FM and PECAM Audit Reports
US dollar values of contributions to the financial plan for all
participants except the World Bank are estimates based upon conversions
into dollars of peso loan values. The estimates of FM participation
are converted from the peso values presented and are consistent with
Bank data. The estimates prepared by PECAM and by CFM vary
substantially from Bank data. PECAM estimated that the Loan financed
222 mining projects and 42 PECAM infrastructure projects with a total
value of US$ 107.3 million. CFM reported that their subprojects had a
total value of US$44 million of which the World Bank financed US$22.6
million. US$11.7 million is the actual amount of Bank disbursements
for CFM subprojects.
2/  The SAR does not provide a standard project financing plan.  Estimates
were derived from the SAR that estimated total project size to be
US$122 million. Subborrowers were estimated as providing for about 20X
of total financing or US$24.4 million. This would not be feasible as
the difference between the SARs estimate of US$107 million of Bank and
Government total contributions, and the SAR's estimated total project
financing of US$122 is equal to US$15 million or 12X of projected
total.
a/  CRM reported 50 subloans of which 36 were for individual procurements
of laboratory equipment.
bt  The Government contributed an equal amount in its financing of about
100 additional PECAM projects during 1981-86.



_ 15 -
contributed to the relatively high rate of loan defaults experienced (Annex
1, Table 6 and 7).5
Uses of Proiect Funds
3.10     The project contemplated the following subproject lending and
leasing activities:
(i)   Leasing Operations:  About 150-200 equipment leasing subprojects
amounting to US$29 million (equivalent) were expected to be
financed. The typical leasing subproject was supposed to average
about US$165,000 in amount and provide for the needs of smaller
miners with less acceptable guarantees. As a result of
discriminatory interest rate provisions on lease financing and the
lack of active preparation of this component, leasing played no
role under Loan 1820-NE.
(ii)  Subproject Financing; About 135 subloans would be granted to
finance subprojects which consist of the procurement of machinery
and equipment, working capital and ore body development. It was
expected that such credits would amount to US$53 million
(equivalent) and average loan size would be about US$393,000.
Under Loan 1820-ME about 182 subloans (amounting to US$52 million
[equivalent]) were actually granted to finance machinery and
equipment, et'., with a smaller than expected average subloan size
of about US$280,000. In the absence of leasing operation and
beneficiation plant financing, these project loans accounted for
94S of total lending instead of the 502 expected.6
(iii) Ten regional beneficiation plant were expected to be financed
requiring US$10 million (equivalent) under Loan 1820-ME. None of
these plants were presented for Bank financing during the course
of the project.
(iv) The loan did not originally contemplate that CRM would become a
financial intermediary providing credit for exploration loans.
3.11     Size of Subloans.  Overall, the loan achieved a high degree of
success with respect to the uses to which loan funds were put in terms of
size distribution of the subloans (Table I). There were more loans and
smaller average size projects and subloans financed under Loan 1820-ME than
had been expected. The average size of all subloans was about US$252,000
and fully 442 of the subloans granted were in the range between US$15,000
5/ The aggregate 3 to 1 debt to equity ratio, for the project as a whole,
presented the lending institutions with a higher than average portfolio
risk profile, since many of these high (nominal) interest rate loans
were heading into an uncertain mineral pricing future.
6/  There were 50 subloans through CRM of which 36 were for individual
procurements of equipment for CRM's own laboratories or field
operations. These 36 subloans are not included in the above analysis
of subproject financing.



- 16 -
to US$100,000. The average size of subproje,t was only US$336,000 as many
smaller, labor-intensive non-metallic mining operations were reached by the
project (para 3.14).
3.12     Types of Enterprises.  With respect to the types of enterprises
financed, almost 952 of CF's projects were to finance the expansion of
existing mixed ore (gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc) mining properties
while 712 of FM's subprojects were for expansion of a wide range of non-
metallic minerals, with construction materials and minerals used by the
petroleum, chemical and paper industries playing a large role in financing.
Almost all of CFM's subprojects would produce minerals for direct or
indirect export, while FM's non-metallic subprojects were essentially split
between domestic and export purposes (Table 4). The project would clearly
result in increased foreign exchange earnings. In line with the fact that
most projects were for expansion, the average term of subloans was about 48
months, with non-metallic mining projects operating on shorter schedules
than metallics. About 30X of metallic projects had schedules of over 5
years compared with 102 for non-metallic mining projects. Based upon the
essential lower risk nature of financing expansion projects and projects
with high export prospects it would be expected that the risk elements in
CPM's and FM's loan portfolio would be aubstantially reduced. This proved
not to be the case (paras 4.01 and 4.04).
3.13     FM Subproiects.  The non-metallic mineral sector financed through
PM was the major user of loan funds as FM disbursed 522 of total project
resources as compared with the 22S expected. Some 35 different types of
non-metallic minerals were involved in the program. About half of the
investment was made to expand output of silica sands, barite (used in the
petroleum industry), hydrated lime, dolomite, marble, rock phosphate and
several other major industrial and construction minerals. The loan had a
very major impact on the reactivation of the construction materials
industry and especially the exploitation of high quality marble.
3.14     CPM Subprojects.  CFM investment's in  silver, lead, zinc, copper
and gold mining operations accounted for almost 922 of total metallic
investment programs. Because of the unexpected high demand for credits to
expand non-metallics, the mineral sector, through CFM, used only 372 of
loan funds compared with the 72Z expected. Financing of machinery and
equipment accounted for 672 of total fund use by FM and CFM while civil
works accounted for 112, working capital 8X and land for 2X. Traditional
project financing accounted for a full 882 of the total, compared with the
422 predicted.
3.15     Summary of the Aggregate of PECAM I Operations.  Under the first
stage of PECAM, subprojects were financed under Loan 1820-ME (Table 1) as
well as by the Government alone using the counterpart resources that it had
granted to PECAM (para. 3.01). The combined numbers show that under the
first stage of PECAM the executing agencies (CFM, CRM and FM) supported
total financing of US$107.3 million (equivalent) to finance 222 mining
projects and the 42 individual subloans to themselves to finance
procurement of equipment and facilities and technical assistance. Almost
702 of PECAM I financing (US$73.3 million equivalent) for 218 subloans was
provided for under Loan 1820-ME (Table 1).
3.16     Aggregate Economic and Social Benefits.  PECAM has estimated that
total investment would result in an increase in mining output at the



- 17 -
national level of 21,713 tons per day, which could amount to an increase of
about 72 of estimated national installed capacity as of 1988. On that
basis the loan would prove to be exceptionally productive. As the value of
national mining output is almost US$1.8 billion per annum an increase of 7?
in output would result in an estimated annual increase in value of output
of about US$40 to US$60 million equivalent based roughly on the product mix
increases experienced under Loan 1820-ME. Part of the reason for the
estimated high productivity of the project is that almost 95? of CFM
metallic projects and 71? of FM non-metallic projects were for expansion
projects (Annex 1, Table 3) and not for 'greenfield' projects where failure
rates are higher and costs of original mine openings greater.
3.17     Employment Generation.  Regarding employment generation, PECAM
estimated, based upon the data provided by borrowers in their loan
application, that about 4,600 jobs would be created in the 222 mining
projects, or about 20 jobs per average project. Based upon total PECAM
costs of US$107.3 million this implies a cost of about US$23,300 per job
created, which is about one-third less than the cost of creating a typical
industrial job. In addition, as a result of mine and mill expansion
programs, the existing 6,300 workers would maintain their posts, for
without prospects for mine expansion, output in old mines would decline and
jobs would be lost as ore bodies were exhausted. On that basis it would be
reasonable to argue that the cost of creating new jobs and saving old jobs,
would approach US$10,000, which would be very satisfactory.
3.18     Financial and Economic Rates of Returnt  Financial rates of return
calculated for the subprojects financed were high in nominal terms,
averaging almost 35?. However, with average annual rates of inflation
ranging around 15? during project implementation, real financial rates of
return expected for subprojects did not differ widely from the appraisal
estimates of 20? p.a.in real terms. Because of the high number of export
projects expected economic rates of return over 552 were not unusual. Vith
respect to project outcome FM has reported that a high 98? of its second-
tier medium-scale projects have repaid their debt on time. These companies
are faced with even higher demand and market prices than expected for the
range of construction and chemical industry non-metallic minerals financed
and that the economic rate of return for these medium-size projects would
be equal to or higher than estimated during appraisal. Estimated economic
returns averaging 35? are offset by the heavy losses sustained by the early
direct lending operations, involving small miners financed under the social
programs. These accounted for about 20? of FM's early lending operations
(Table 6) and most are in arrears. There exists no corresponding data on
subproject financial or economic performance for CFM whose loan portfolio
is suffering from high arrears (para 4.01). CFM's new management is in the
process of evaluating the repayment capacity of the portfolio in arrears to
determine the percentage of willful defaulters and failed and
unreconstructed subprojects. If the portfolio arrears data represents the
real financial situation of the companies in CFM's loan portfolio (rather
than willful defaults) then about 35? of the original subloan amounts under
CPM's component of Loan 1820-ME would not have achieved financial and
economic results expected, which would imply a low or even negative
economic rate of return for the aggregate metallic mining portion of the
project. CFK's new management expects, however, that the willful default
rate is high (see para 4.01) and that a significant percentage of portfolio
arrears may be cleared up.



_ 18 -
IV. LOAN PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
4.01     CFM's PECAM Loan Portfolio.  As of December 31, 1988, CFM reported
that it had outstanding interest and principal due of MP4,153 million. Of
the original of MP4,086 million that had been disbursed over the life of
the project, MP2,066 million represented the remaining principal due (plus
some penalties), of which 40? was in substantial arrears, 29g had been
renegotiated because of the financial problems and 29? was current. Thus,
about MP1,425 million, or 35? of the original total loan portfolio was in
arrears or renegotiated and not performing as initially contemplated.
Regarding interest due, as of December 31, 1988, 69? was substantially in
arrears and 272 was in suspension. Thus, CFM was facing a substantial
shortfall of MPl,900 million (about US$850,000) on interest income from
accounts that were substantially in arrears. CFM's total interest and
principal that are substantially in arrears (over 180 days) or in
suspension, amounts to about MP2,800, about 602 of the original total of
loan disbursement. It is expected by CFM's new management that the high
(69?) percentage of loans that are in substantial arrears can be reduced by
more aggressive collection practices than had been practiced in the past
especially as they intend to move rapidly to judicial action for
collection.
4.02     The PCR does not provide a detailed review of the status and
condition of the major problem subprojects nor does it provide an analysis
of their probable causes for failure. Provisions were made for a review of
a sample of about 50 subprojects, to measure their outcome and to determine
the major controllable reasons why subprojects did not perform as expected.
PECAM, which had agreed to initiate this task, disintegrated during the
last quarter of 1988, following a change in government. All PECAN
management and contract staff left and the agreed upon detailed portfolio
review and the appraisal quality review was not implemented. CFM's new
management will undertake a review of subprojects in conjurction with
expected increased loan collection activity, and information on reasons why
subprojects failed to achieve objectives is expected to be made available
to the Bank in the future, to be used for the preparation of the PCR for
the Second Small and Medium Mining Project.
4.03     CRMIPECAM Loan Portfolio.  During 1982-86 CRM undertook to
completed 37 exploration programs financed under PECAM subloans. An
additional reported 1,000 reconnaissance level visits were undertaken using
own and Government resources. Of the 37 financings under PECAM I amounting
to a reported MP325 million, all are substantially in arrears and CRM has
essentially abandoned efforts to collect on exploration program loans as
there were no real guarantees to enforce repayment of these high risk
exploration credits. As the CRM credit program was an ad-hoc addition to
the SMK program agreed to during the 1983 loan amendment, the issue of the
appropriateness of this credit component was never examined in detail.
Exploration activity is high risk, and results in a positive find of an
economic ore body in fewer than 251 of the cases. Even then, the time
frame between exploration and mine development and extraction can usually
be measured in 3 to 8 year intervals. On the basis of the recognized high
risk and low immediate cashflow repayment capacity, the industry practice
is that initial exploration financing is generally done with risk equity,
not loan money. CRM management has reported that it has withdrawn from
granting credit for exploration subloans.



- 19 -
4.04     PM's PECAM Loan Portfolio.7   Under PECAM I PM disbursed MP4,913
million to finance 111 projects of which 94 were partially financed by the
Bank under Loan 1820-ME and the balance with government counterpart
resources, mainly during periods when Bank funds were not available. As of
December 31, 1989, subborrowers under PECAM I had repaid MP2,843 million,
equal to 58? of their original total loan amount of MP4,913 million. Of
the outstanding balance of the original loan amount (NP2,070 million),
MP1,050 million or 51? is in current status. FM's total exposure with
respect to PECAM I loans that are in judicial action (more than 90 days
overdue) amounts to MP2,528 million, which includes overdue principal and
capitalized interest, interest overdue and penalties (Table 6). Of these
amounts due about 75? are from FM's direct operations with eiidos made in
the early stages of PECAM I. The balance of overdues also result from
direct lending.
4.05     FM's total portfolio amounted to about MP96,000 million as of
December 31, 1988, of which about 872 was amounts due from second-tier
operations with commercial banks. Total FM direct operations amount to
about MP17,900 million of which about MP2,570 million are in legal action.
PECAM I represents a high percentage of these overdue loans. Consistent
with a sound portfolio management policy, FM has made reserves for bad debt
of MP2,478 million, equal to about 2S of total portfolio. This provision
is equal to about 15? of direct operations and 1002 of overdue amounts,
which is ample. FM currently operates a reduced direct social program
which it funds out of a portion of its annual net profits. Direct social
program lending is currently 8.6a of total portfolio down from about 45Z
during PECAM I.
4.06     Accounting and Financial Reporting:  PECAM's required annual
external audits of the status of the Special Account and the Project
Account was adequately prepared and submitted to the Bank with delays.
CPM's external auditors prepared annual reports for the Bank, which were
unacceptable and which in spite of repeated demands for improvement by the
Bank, were never improved.
4.07     CFM is a c,%plex holding company with assets amounting to about
US$1.5 billion. The Bank loan represents a very small 1.5Z of its assets
and CPM had little incentive to forge major changes in audit policy and
practice. The accounting problem arose because CFM's consolidated
financial statements carried major qualifications which resulted from the
fact that the CPM had about a dozen different auditors dealing with parts
and pieces of its operations -- in line with the recommendations of the
Auditor General of Mexico. Thus, no single audit firm could attest to the
carrying value of CFM's assets or the accuracy of its total accounts.
These accounting issues were not addressed during project preparation or
handled adequately during supervision.
4.08     The value of CFM's income accounts, which are annually audited by
an external auditor and presented to the Bank, is open to question because
income accruals continue to be taken until an account is wiped off the
books through judicial action and sale of assets, often three or more years
7/ PM maintains a rigorous portfolio management policy. It classifies all
loans over 90 days in arrears and within weeks thereafter movep
delinquent loans to judicial action for collection.



- 20 -
after payment of interest has stopped. Provisions for interest on bad
loans are not periodically made nor is past income booked, reversed from
past income accounts. CFM's income recording policy is therefore
inappropriate for a financial intermediary.
4.09     Recently, the Bank and CFM's new management agreed on a process of
ensuring that CFM would submit required clean financial statements to the
Bank. Starting with the 1988 Audit CFM's accounts will be recast by its
new management. As of January 1989, CFM's new financial managers initiated
a program that established CFM's beneficiation plants as cost centers and
new classes of data were available, as of November 1988, that reflected
CFM's true operating income and cost situation. The new management has a
full understanding of the problems and issues they confront to get CFM
accounts into meaningful and operationally useful condition. It is
expected that by 1989-90 the long-standing problems of establishing
meaningful valuations of properties will be resolved and that the Auditor
General will permit CFM to take the measures needed to produce an
acceptable and auditable consolidated balance sheet.
V. SUMMARY OF PROJECT AND LESSONS LEARNED
Proiect Objectives
5.00     The objectives spelled out in para. 1.03 were simply too broad to
be ach_evable under the project design that was adopted for Loan 1820-ME,
and, in the final analysis, these objectives remained statements of
intention essentially unlinked to the design of the project. The amount of
resources involved, the beneficiary group that was targeted, the
institutional mechanism adopted, and the failure to assess whether existing
sector policies would constrain further growth of the sector, were all
factors which ensured that such broad objectives could not be carried out
under the project as designed. The appraisal process should have ensured
thats (i) project objectives coincided with the scope of the project as
well as the constraints imposed by the sector; (ii) project design was
adequate to support achieving each project goal through the proper mix of
appropriate policies, adequate institutional structure and technical
assistance support to executing agencies; (iii) quantifiable benefits had
been established as a means of assessing performance in the achieving of
project objectives; and (iv) continuous monitoring of the achievement of
project benefits would be carried out.
5.01     Also, no attempt was made to see if existing institutional
objectives were compatible with project objectives, and this was
particularly evident in the executing agencies strong "social' orientation
towards making loans primarily for promotional purposes, with project
viability assuming secondary importance. FM realized at an early stage that
financial viability was incompatible with lending to eiidos, and it dropped
this activity in favor of financing commercially sound ventures financed
througn commercial banks. CFM never did seem to comprehend this
distinction, and only after FM's management took over CFM, did a serious
re-consideration of lending policies take place. In the case of CRM, the
introduction into an institution with no understanding or capability for
carrying out financing operations, of credit facilities for the financing



- 21 -
of high risk exploration activities, and without assessing the potential
risks and probable loses involved, resulted in defaults for about every
exploration program financed.
5.02     Project objectives did not take into account the constraints
imposed by sector policies on overall sector growth. Existing mining
legislation imposes serious constraints on foreign shareholding and
management control of mining enterprises, restricts Rccess of private
investors to mineral deposits in reserved areas, has very lengthy and
cumbersome procedures for obtaining concessions coupled with minimal
requirements for developing them, and imposes an outmoded mining taxation
system on potential investors.
Proiect Execution
5.03      The project's institutional structure was not only inappropriate
for carrying out the project's objectives, but was also unsuitable for
implementing the project as designed. The key to the fuactioning of the new
system was PECAM, composed of a coordinating committee supported by a
technical secretariat, which had been created to function as project
manager, subproject reviewer, source of technical assistance and channel
for Bank financing, but it was never adequately managed or staffed to carry
out any of these functions, and the establishing of a credit facility
within SEMIP's General Directorate of Mining and Metallurgy. had no
institutional rationale.
5.04     The project design should have clearly linked investment
objectives with the institutional structure intended to carry it out. This
would have necessitated a real appraisal of institutional capability, a
determining of where institutional weaknesses existed, and the ordering of
required functions and associated responsibilities. as well as the training
of staff and managers required to carry out the project.
5.05     Another flaw in the project design was the lack of a monitoring
system to provide continuous follow-up on project results. Since training
and technical assistance were vital to the success of the project, the
design of a monitoring system should have been an integral component of the
project. In addition, the fact that no real effort was made to monitor the
progress of subprojects or to assess their impact and the stream of
benefits derived from their implementation, and then to compare the result
with the benefits projected at appraisal, meant that no real assessment
could be made of the achievements of the project in terms of its investment
objectives. Also, the fact that CFM could not produce a satisfactory
credit report, make it very difficult to access the financial viability of
that entity.
Project Results
5.06     There is no evidence that the existence of PECAM had a significant
effect on the success of the project. PECAM's subproject review did not
lead to any improvements in the quality of CFM's or FM's loan portfolio,
and the lack of a core of permanent, well qualified and trained management
and staff, practically ensured that PECAM would not be able to carry out
the functions it had been assigned, and PECAM became just another
processing layer.



- 22 -
5.07     Technical assistance under the project was almost all (94X)
directed towards providing physical assets to the executing agencies, and
only 2S was earmarked for training purposes. Until the end of 1983,
technical assistance provided budgetary support for equipment purchases and
ignored the institution building needs of the executing agencies. This was
followed by a greater emphasis on improving institutional systems, training
and guidelines for PECAM, CFM and FM, but which in the end proved
inadequate to address the wide range of institutional problems which still
existed. The Project Execution Document and the Strategic Action Program
were more statements of intention rather than plans of action, and when
they were finally implemented in 1985, they were too little too late to
have a major impact on project performance.
5.08     New procedures were adopted to make financing terms and conditions
more flexible and more responsive to conditions in the mining sector. As a
result, disbursements increased rapidly in 1984-85, and four-fifths of all
disbursements actually took place during that time. All of this financing
involved lending for private sector investment, and another of the
achievements of the project was in reaching more enterprises (182 versus
135 projected) than had been anticipated at appraisal. The lower average
subloan size (US$ 280,000 versus US$ 393,000), indicates that project
financing was reaching smaller scale enterprises than was expected at
appraisal, another laudable result. Conversely, the leasing component was a
complete failure, because interest rates on lease financing were
considerably higher than on loan financing, and because this form of
financing was never adequately promoted. In addition, no CFM-owned
beneficiation plants were presented for Bank financing, although it had
been expected at appraisal that ten such plants would be financed under the
project. Perhaps because CFM was using its beneficiation plants as
promotional instruments to foster development of small and medium metallic
mining, these plants would not have passed the fkmancial scrutiny of the
appraisal process.
5.9      At appraisal, the benefits to be achieved by the project were
expected to be high. Mining output was expected to increase by 7Z, 4,600
jobs were expected to be created at a cost of US$ 23,300 per job, and many
existing jobs would be saved as depleted ore bodies were abandoned and new
reserves developed. Real rates of return were expected to average 20? p.a.,
with returns from export projects even higher, given Mexico's relatively
low wage structure and high grade ore reserves. Unfortunately, PECAN was
unable to carry out a review of subproject performance, which would have
provided evidence to indicate whether any of these goals had been achieved.
If CFM's portfolio arrears data represents the real financial situation of
the mines it financed (rather than willful defaults), then at least one-
third of the mining enterprises financed by CFH, would not have achieved
the financial and economic results expected. The far superior repayment
record of the non-metallic mines financed by FM, would indicate that these
enterprises had been much more successful in achieving the results
projected; however, in the absence of subproject performance data, we have
no way of verifying these results.
Some Lessons for the Future.
5.10     The project's chances for success would have been greatly improved
if the following had been taken into account:



- 23 -
(i) project objectives should reflect the constraints imposed by
sector policies, be achievable within the framework of the
project concept, and be closely linked to project design;
(il) quantifiable benefits should be established as a means of
assessing performance in the achievement of project
objectives;
(iiI) institutional objectives must be compatible with project
objectives; this is particularly important when an entity
with no firm basis as a financial institution, is given
respoasibility for channeling credit;
(iv)   the allocation of funds to specific investment components
should be based on a clear identification of the need for
such financing; and
(v)   continuous monitoring of the progress of project performance
is essential to establishing the project's impact and to
determining if the anticipated benefits are being achieved.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                        Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
A Note on Statement of Proiect Objective
1.       The SAR that was distributed to the Board of Directors in March
1980 was exceptional in that it did not contain the standard well-
formatted, explicit statement of the Bank's objectives. Project objectives
had to be inferred from the text of the SAR. Para 3.01 (Background and
Objectives of the Project) confirms the Government's interest in mounting a
broadly based, integrated program for SMM development under the PECAM
system, and enumerates the aims of the PECAM program regarding: (i)
exploitation of full mining sector potential; (ii) reversing the sector's
low growth trend; (iii) generating employment, especially in low-income
groups; and (iv) activating least developed regions.
2.       The SAR did not examine the prospect for the achievement of the
Bank's (PECAM) project objectives in the context of Mexico's: (1) mining
sector policies and the limitations these imposed on the pace and direction
of investment and (2) Mexico's capacity to finance inter alia the
infrastructure of roads, energy, public health water and technical support
facilities that are preconditions to activating for investment in the least
developed regions of Mexico.
3.       An underlying assumption for achieving potential was that the
PECAM project operating in support of SMM, wihin the framework of Mexico's
mining policies, could channel the funds and technical support required to
'develop on an economically viable basis an important part of the Mexico's
mining resources" (see SAR para 1.2). Vhile the term "important" is
undefined, it is unlikely that Mexico's potential can be fully realized in
the next several decades without major external investment, ranging in the
thousands of millions of dollars and the introduciton of large amounts of
additional risk capital for exploration over a substantial period of years.
4.       The statement of project objectives regarding achieving of
potential gave implicit support to the notion that an adequate pace of risk
capital investment and investment in mines and mills could be sustained
under the then existing mining laws that are highly restrictive of the
introduction of external risk capital and fixed asset investment and limit
the strategic areas for exploration and exploitation.
Conclusions:
(1; The PECAM and the loan objectives were unrealistic in scope, given the
size and sector orientation of the loan and the sectoral issues that were
yet to be addressed.



- 25 -                        ANNEX,I
Page 2 of 2
(2) The loan objectives implicitly supported the notion that important
progress could be made in the mineral sector in the absence of policies
that would attract and release large amounts of external risk capital for
exploration and for investment in mines and mills.



- 26 -
Annex IS
Tables 2,1,4
PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-HE
Terms of Loans Granted
(I Distribution)
CPM                 PK
Less than 3 years                                  11.7                11.3
3 to 5 years                                      57.4                 78.3
5 to 7 years                                      23.4                  7.8
7 to 9 years                                       6.4                  2.6
Over 9 years                                        1.1                 0.0
100.0               100.0
Tine of Enterprise
(2 Distribution)
CFM                 PK
NOW                                                5.3                 28.7
Expansion                                         94.7                 71.3
100.0                100.0
Destination of Sales
(I Distribution)
CYL 11              pH
Export-Direct                                     93.0                  9.6
gEport-lndirect                                     -                  13.0
Import Substitution                               7.0                  11.3
Combination                                         -                  66.1
100.0                100.0
11 CPM could not provide sales destination data. However, 931 of its projects were
directed toward silver, lead, zinc, tin and gold metallices almost all of which
are directly or ldirectly exported. Thus, a bigh percentage of its projects
were forelgn exchange generators.



- 27 -
Annex I1
Table 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
Apnlication of Loan Funds
(2 of Total Disbursements)
PERCENTAGE
Land                                                1.8
Civil Works                                        11.1
Machinery and Equipment                            67.0
Working Capital                                     8.0
Pre-Operating Costs                                10 5
Misc. /Others                                       1.6
Total Applications                         100.0
Source: World Bank estimates based upon PECAM information on total
projects financed by CFM, CRM and FM  during 1981-85.



- 28 -
Annes II
Table 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
Comision de Fomento )inerol
Analysis of Portfolio Status - PECAM I (December 31, 1988)
(millions of pesos)
CURRENT LOAN BALANCE
INTEREST         PRINCIPAL              TOTAL
LOAN CLASSIFICATION                    DUE    I          DUE     S         DUE        Z
Current (less than 90 day overdue)   51.0    2.4         588.0   28.5      639.0   15.4
Renegotiated and Current              25.0    1.2        596.0   28.8      621.0   15.0
Arrears 90 to 180 days                10.0    O).5        51.0    2.5       61.0    1.5
Arrears 180 t6 360.days              197.0    9.4        159.0    7.7      356.0    8.6
Arrears 360 and over               1,246.0   59.7        672.0   32.5     1918.0   46.1
Grace/Morstorio/Other                558.0   26.7          -.-    -.-      558.0   13.4
Total Dues                    2,087.0  100.0     2,066.8  100.0    4,153.0  100.0
1/ Original loan'balance was MP4,086. million, current balance of
principal inclules capitalized Interest, etc.



- 29 -                        Annex I$
Table 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORZ
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
FM
Analysis of Portfolio Status, PECAM I (December 31, 1988)
(million of Pesos)
CURRENT LOAN BALANCE
ORIGINAL
LOAN           PRINCIPAL       INTEREST        TOTAL
LOAN CLASSIFICATION                AMOUNT 1/       DUE             DUE             DUE
Fully Repaid                        2,843
Current                             1,050          1,050           -.-             1,050
(less than 90 days arrears)
Loans in Judical Action 21          1.020          1.605           933             2.538
Total                          4,913           2,655           933            3,588
Source: FMNH
1/ Total loan amount based upon III PK loans made during PECAM I of which 94 are Bank
financed loans.
2_  These loans are mainly direct operations undertaken by FMNM at an early project stage.
3/ Includes capitalized interest and penalties.



- 30 -
Annex II
Table 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos
Balance Sheet
(December 31, 1987-1989)
1988                        1987
ASSETS
Short Term
Cash and Banks                        16,470.00                     10,064.00
Loans                                 24,958.00                       6,065.00
Accounts Due                           3,813.00                       1,683.00
(Less% Provisions for Bad Debts)      (2,478.00
Total                              45,242.00                     17,813.00
Long Term
Loans                                 96,470.00                     22,252.00
Fixed Assets (Net)                       403.00                         465.00
Other 11                                 124.00                     26,994.00
Totai                              96,99i.00                     49,712.00
TOTAL ASSETS                         142,239.00                     67,525.00
LIABILITIES
Short Term
Current Portem Long Term Debt        3,876.00                      1,686.00
Provisions                           1,965.00                        513.00
Accounts Payable                       123.00                         100.00
Other                                   41.00                        205.00
Total                              6,007.00                      2,503.00
Long Term
PECAM (Contracted)                  32,215.00                     16,272.00
PECAM (In Process)                  54,658.00                      4,497.00
Total                            87,374.00                      20,769.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES                     93,381.00                     23,272.00
CAPITAL
Paid In                                3,644.00                      3,644.00
Accumulated Surplus                   13,004.00                       3,409.00
Surplus for the Period                31,020.00                     10,097.00
Revaluation Reserves                   1,189.00                      27,101.00
Total                               48,858.00                     44,251.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL        142,239.00                     67,525.00
11 For 1987 includes Reserves for Revaluation of Bonds $26,256 million as offset to
capital account dropped in 1988.



AIINE7. III
- 3i -                         Pave 1 of 3
90E0505    February 16, 1990
Spanish    (Mexico)
LA2TF      JCB:mec
Gerencia de Financiamientos Multilat, tes
Mr. Alexander Nowicki                             January 18, 1990
Chief, Policy-Based Lending, Industry,
Public Utilities and Urban Sectors
OED
World Bank
Washington, D.C.
I refer to Loan 182t4-ME, the first stage of the Programa Especial
Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequeiia y Mediana Mineria (PECAM).
In reply to your letter of November 17, 1989, requesting our
comments on the Project Completion Report, we wish to highlight the following
points for consideration in the final version of the PCR:
Generally speaking, we agree with your evalurtion that the basic
project objectives were satisfactorily accomplished. {owever, the PCR points
out several flaws noted during project execution. We feel it is necessary to
identify the responsibilities of the each of the pai ies involved, including
at the design stage, when the problems arising during project preparation were
already evident.
Also, we feel that the PCR's evaluation of PECAM I does not tWake
account of the real situation of the loan: while it was contracted in
August 1980, our country was faced with various domestic and external problems
from 1981 onward, which hampered our economic activity and consequently
changed the original context within which the loan was negotiated, with
adverse effects on project execution.
With respect to the technical personnel, we wish to point out that
the staff assigned to PECAN was not actually hired, but remained on the
payroll of the Ministry of Energy, Mining and Parastatal Industry (SENIP).
With respect to your comments on policy reform in the mining sector,
we ask that you delete these, since PECAN I was negotiated under other
criteria, as noted during execution of the program. We would point out that
the reforms referred to in the Report are currently being considered in the
Mining Sector Program.
Attached please find comments on the PCR made by the agencies
involved in the project.
Very truly yours,
sl/ Lic. Jos6 Garcia Torres
Manager
Attachment: As above



- 32 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
PECAM I PROJECT - COMMENTS ON
THE WORLD BANK'S PCR OF OCTOBER 28, 1989
1.       Regarding the functions and activities of PECAM's Technical
Secretariat, the Coordinating Committee proceeded last August to authorize its
incorporation into the Mining Development Commission (CFM). We would point
out that CFM's External Financing Directorate is responsible for carrying out
certain of the functions that used to be assigned to PECAN. It is essential
to have an area that can coordinate, supervise, and provide general support
for the other institutions in the mining sector in all their proceedings
involving financial and technical assistance. Thus CFM's External Financing
Directorate is the link with Nacional Financiera for all proceedings and
consultations on lines of credit financed by the World Bank.
2.        In relation to the absence of any policies introducing institutional
reform during PECAM I, we woujld point out that a number of changes and
adjustments were made to the Mexican mining sector, with a view to bringing it
into line with international standards of competitiveness and efficiency, a
fact that IBRD did not consider in either PECAN I or PECAM II. In addition,
there were a number of consultations with experts to ensure that the new
project would take account of environmental impact.
3.        The document mentions that almost 66 percent of the Technical
Assistance was used by CRM, evidence of inappropriate resource allocation
under this heading. In PECAM II, the technical assistance component was used
for several purposes, including seminars, training courses at the executing
agencies, reconnaissance trips, modernization of the Directorate General of
Mines, etc.
4.        With respect to CFM's shortcomings, the document mentions its merger
with PM. By turning it into a second-tier lending institution, this should
result in a notable improvement in its activities. The commercial banks have
recently been discounting loans to metallic mining, a process that is expected
to pick up gradually.
5.        FM's overdue portfolio under PECAN I was always kept within the
margins regarded as acceptable among financing agencies (below 8 percent).
With respect to social program loans, it is pointed out that these were all
funded out of FM's own resources, with only a very small percentage provided
by PECAN I.
6.        It is mentioned that in PECAN I no beneficiation plants were
financed. During PECAM It, IBRD authorized several investments in physical
assets for the executing agencies.
7.       With respect to the conclusion that the PECAM I objectives were not
realistic, since neither the size and nature of the sector, nor the sector
policies, were properly taken into account, it is pointed out that the program
was implemented in accordance wi-h the guidelines of the National Mining
Program in effect at that time. At present, the government's economic
strategy includes, among others, the following actions to modernize the



- 33 -                            ANIIEX III
Page 3 of 3
sector: diagnosis and proposal for a new Regulation to the General Law of
Mining; study of the tax system; policies on the disincorporation of reserves
and elimination of allocations; National Mining Program; publication of
geological maps; presidential approval of the proposal to create a Mining
Development Fund; Five-year Business Program for CFM; Portfolio Recovery and
Credit Monitoring Plan for CFM; CFM Accounting and Management Information
'System; plan to decentralize CFM's functions; Five-year Operating rrogram for
CRM; Aerial Reconnaissance Program for CRM; CRM Laboratory Modernization; CRM
Information Center; CRM Data Bank; retention of fees for CRM's services.
8.        In relation to the second conclusion of the document, to the effect
that the objectives of PECAM I implicitly defend the notion that progress must
be made in the mining sector in the absence of any policies to attract large
amounts of risk capital for exploration and investment, we wish to point out
that the present government's policy for modernization of the mining sector
assigns particular importance to foreign capital participation in the
development of the country's mining industry. Efforts are in progress to
devise a formula for facilitating and expanding foreign investment in the
sector.
9.        The World Bank's evaluation of PECAM I largely refers to subsequent
situations, so that in some places it looks more like an evaluation of
PECAM II.
10.       Since the report takes into account references and experiences
arising after PECAM I, rather than looking at the situation prevailing while
the program was actually ir. effect, it loses much of its usefulness.
11.       The evaluation was supposed to take place immediately following
completion of the program, so that it would show positive experiences, draw
lessons from mistakes made, and thereby serve as a basis for an improved
PECAM II.
12.       Several of the opinions offered disregard the fact that PECAM I was
a new program, requiring a major effort of promotion in order to become
known. The fact that it was so new was the reason that requests for aid were
geared less to new projects than to the expansion of existing ones.



ANNEX IV
- 34 -                          Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOAN 1820-ME
Response to the Borrower's Comments on the PCR
1.       Project Objectives.  The PCR points out on pages 2 and 3 that
three of the four project objectives were not achieved, for two main
reasons. First, they were excessively broad and substantially overstated
the potential development impact of this relatively small lending effort.
Second, the levels of investment required to achieve these objectives for
the mining sector would have been unattainable in the context of sector
policy constraints, especially those on foreign investment, that prevailed
in the period under review (from mid-1982 until early 1988, when the
project closed). To the extent that the main project objectives were
unachievable and unrelated to the main challenge of the project (i.e.,
institution building and development of small and medium scale mining)
focus was shifted from institution building and technical assistance and
thereby contributed to the operational problems experienced by the project.
The acceptance of the stated project objectives (Par&. 1.03) represented a
failure in the project quality control process.
2.       Responsibility for Project Preparation.  Normally, Bank staff
would depend heavily on the government to prepare, or assist the Bank to
prepare the design of a project especially in the areas of institutional
development, where Bank staff would rely on the specialized knowledge of
the counterpart staff regarding local institutional and human resource
capability. However, for new operations like Loan 1820-ME, where there was
little or no prior experience to rely on, the Bank generally takes on a
major preparatory role. Nevertheless, local counterparts would be expected
to actively participate in project identif3cation and design, and should
bring an open and skeptical attitude to th.. preparation process.
3.       For Loan 1820-ME, the Borrower has commented that design problems
were already evident during the preparation stages of the project.
However, the PCR mission in the field was not made privy to this fact, and
there was nothing in the correspondence files to indicate that (a) local
advice or recommendations regarding issues of project design was offered or
ignored, or (b) there existed unresolved project design issues that were
not fully and fairly aired during loan negotiations. The major conceptual
and design problems of the subject loan are fully identified in the PCR and
are translated into lessons learned for future operations (Section V).
From the Bank's perspective, the underlying assumption of the PCR is that
involved Bank staff and management had total control over the design of the
project, acquiesced to all of the changes during negotiations and were
fully responsible for the design and the outcome of a project, including
the failure to initiate major revisions in design or even cancel for due
cause. From the Borrowers' managerial perspective, we assume that similar
assumptions are made about the responsibilities of their own staffs.



35 -                         ANNEX IV
-             ~           Page 2 of 2
4.       Proiect Externalities.  Regarding the PCR's recognition of the
impacts of external and internal events upon the operations of the project,
the impact of macroeconomic events and the decline in metal prices starting
in 1981 are noted in the PCR (Paras. 2 and 3.02) along with the effects of
major policy constraints (Para. 1.02), interest rate problems (Paras. 3.02)
and project design flaws (summarized in Para. 4). All of these negative
impacts contributed to the problems that the project faced and then
partially overcame prior to achieving an increase in the pace of
disbursement in 1985-87.
5.       PECAM's Professional Staff.  In Para. 2.08 the relationship of
PECAM to SEMIP is briefly described. It was not specified in Para. 2.08
that the Director and Subdirector of PECAM were senior
managerslprofessionals employed by SEMIP. However, the rest of PECAM
professional staff were, to the best of our knowledge, term contract
employees engaged by SEMIP. Turnover among project staff was substantial,
and it posed a quality control and efficiency problem that was never
resolved. Finally, at the end of the project, vhen staff contracts had
expired, there was no one available on the professional staff of PECAM to
complete the agreed upon subproject survey work and the report required for
preparation of the PCR.
6.       Sector Policy Constraints.  The brief review of sector constraints
was made in the context of the PCR's examination of the appropriateness of
two of the Bank's main project objectives, namelys (i) to exploit the full
markrt potential of the mining sector; and (ii) to reverse the sector's
slow growth of the 1970's (Para. 1.03). The PCR concluded, inter alia,
that the policy framework prevailing during the preparation and appraisal
of the loan was sufficiently restrictive, that the loan's objectives were
in fact not attainable and were inappropriate for a project whose main
concerns would prove to be institutional (Para 5.00). In that context, the
review of the status of sector policy at the time of loan appraisal proved
to be important to the conclusions of the PCR and provided important
lessons on how to think about setting appropriate and realistic goals for
future loans (Para. 5.10). The point made by the Borrower that the
Government is currently considering a range of major reforms in the mining
sector is appreciated and is noted in the Preface of the PCR and referred
to in appropriate places in the text.
7.       The comment that the report looks more like an evaluation of PECAM
II than PECAM I, misses the point that the latter continued to disburse
after the former became effective. This is an normal disbursement profile
for successive line-of-credit loans which are granted in support of the
same sector and for similar long term objectives. In short, PECAM I and II
clearly overlap, and no distinct separation can be made between the two.
8.       Other Comments.  The financing of parastatal beneficiation plants
was included under both PECAM I and II; however, in no case was any plant
actually financed. Other staff comments focused on the PCR's discussions
of past sector policy and on the fact that the new administration has
adopted a different view regarding foreign investment, as an example of new
attitudes. These comments are covered by the response in Para. 6 above.



