Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2735--ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJEC'
March 6, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their olicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it
has fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar since mid 1977. On
February 1, 1980, the peso traded at 22.60 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ACF      =  average yearly cost of borrowed funds to financieras
(investment banks and financial departments of
multipurpose banks) which stood at 18.4 percent in
February 1980.
CFM         Comision de Fomento Minero
(Mining Development Commission)
CRM      =  Consejo de Recursos Minerales
(Mineral Resources Council)
FM       =  Fideicomiso Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos
(Mexican Trust Fund for Non Metallic Minerals)
IDB      =  Inter-American Development Bank
LIBOR    =  London Interbank offered rate for six-month funds
NAFINSA  =  Nacional Financiera S.A.
SEPAFIN  =  Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial
(Ministry of National Patrimony and Industrial Development)



MEXICO             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S. A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Project Executing
Agencies:          Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM), Fideicomiso de Minerales
no Metalicos Mexicanos (FM) and Consejo de Recursos
Minerales (CRM).
Amount:             US$40 million equivalent.
Terms:              Seventeen years including four of grace, at an interest rate
of 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       Medium and long-term loans would be provided to small and
medium-scale mining enterprises through CFM and FM to
finance fixed assets required to increase production
capacity. Equipment would also be leased on a long-term
basis, with option to purchase. Credit would also be
provided to enterprises for ore reserve development, both
on a risk-sharing and secured basis. About ten regional
mineral beneficiation plants would be constructed to
process minerals produced by small and medium-scale mining
enterprises. Technical assistance would be provided by
CRM, CFM and FM to mining enterprises and equipment would
be provided to the executing agencies to expand their
technical services. The project presents the risks of
possible delays in commiting resources due to institutional
constraints and possible loss of interest in the sector by
investors due to mineral price declines. However, these
risks are considered to be moderate and acceptable on the
whole.
Onlending Terms:   CFM   nd FM would onlend either in Mexican pesos or in
fo eign currencies and interest rates would be
adjusted periodically. Peso denominated loans would
carry an interest rate of 1.5 to 2.0 percentage point above
the average cost of funds to financieras and financial
departments of multipurpose banks (ACF). U.S. dollar
denominated loans would carry an interest charge of at least
one percentage point above LIBOR. The ACF is computed
periodically by the Bank of Mexico and stood at 18.4 percent
in February 1980. Rental fees on equipment leasing
operations would include a cost of capital consistent with
the interest rates for peso loans. The Government would
take the foreign exchange risk and repay the loan; Bank
resources would remain with the Executing Agencies
permanently.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii
Estimated Cost
and Sources of                           ---------------(in US$ millions)-------------
Financing:                                 Project Financing
Requirements              Bank   Government
CFM    FM      CRM  Total  Financing  Financing
Credit                40.6  12.1      -    52.7       17.9       34.8
Equipment Leasing    22.6   6.0        -    28.6      12.9       15.7
Beneficiation
Plants               10.4   5.1      -    15.5        4.9       10.6
Technical Assistance  3.2   0.4    6.6   10.2          4.3        5.9
Total                 76.8  23.6    6.6  107.0        40.0       67.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                       in US$ million
Fiscal Years           1981       1982      1983       1984
Annual                   2.5      12.0      18.0        7.5
Cumulative              2.5       14.5      32.5       40.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2764-b-ME of February 25, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) with the Guarantee of United Mexican
States for the equivalent of US$40 million to help finance the foreign exchange
cost of a Small and Medium-Scale Mining Development project. The loan would
v         bear interest at 8.25 percent per annum and would have a repayment period of
17 years, including 4 years of grace. About US$17.9 million of the proposed
loan would be onlent to small and medium-scale mining enterprises in either
Mexican pesos or foreign currencies. Peso denominated loans would carry an
interest charge of 1.5 to 2.0 percentage point above the average cost of funds
to financieras and financial departments of multipurpose banks (ACF). Dollar
denominated loans would carry an interest charge of at least one percentage
point above LIBOR. The ACF is computed periodically by the Bank of Mexico.
The Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less
than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of
the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic
role in this achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure
and in key industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a
stable regulatory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects,
to induce private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. The absolute income levels of the poorer house-
holds rose more or less apace with those of their richer countrymen, but there
was little reduction in contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land
redistribution has continued, most of the peasants who received land could



- 2 -
not significantly improve their economic status as they received only limited
benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance. Rapid popula-
tion growth,which reached 3.3 percent per year by the mid 70's,made social
equity even more difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained economic
growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing labor force in produc-
tive employment and by the 1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was either
relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to less
than 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954, and let the
peso float; since then,it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation at the end
of 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign
indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need
for economic stabilization. However, the situation also called for more
expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private invest-
ment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the
Labor force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world
prices offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector;
indeed, increased production for export of these products seemed by far the
only way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in
the coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 18-20 percent
in 1978 and 1979 as against an annual rate of almost 30 percent in 1977. The
deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked at $4.2
billion (or 6 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to $1.9 billion (equivalent



- 3 -
to 2-1/2 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and increasing
capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting both the
resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital and interme-
diate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends. The current
account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or 3.1 percent of GDP) in 1978
and further to an estimated US$3.8 billion (under 3-1/2 percent of GDP) in
1979. The public sector deficit also peaked at about 9 percent of GDP in
1975 and declined to about 6 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by the
banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth is estimated at
7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to less than 1 percent
in 1977.
9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent, but inflation will remain a
problem, essentially as a result of investments which are increasing at
a rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. These investments call
for continued increasesin imports of capital and intermediate goods and,
while foreign exchange will not be a constraint on account of the recent
increases in oil prices, the import program will put a severe strain on the
existing infrastructure capacity, especially ports and rail transport in which
bottlenecks already exist. Additional strain on the transport system is
likely to come from the expected large imports of grains as a result of a bad
crop this year.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in controlling
inflation may come from the wage area. The recently agreed increase in the
minimum wage of about 21 percent, while not automatically reflected in the
total wage bill, is likely to establish a benchmark in union bargaining within
the modern sector and contribute to a cost push which might be passed on
to consumers. This increase in the minimum wage is easier to reconcile with
the objective of reducing inflation below 20 percent when it is considered
that it comes after three consecutive years of decline in real wages.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The increase in January in the consumer
price index of about 5 percent, resulting in part from seasonal factors and
in part from the newly introduced value-added tax, may adversely affect expec-
tations about inflation. At the same time, the need to expand public invest-
ment in the key infrastructure sectors and to maintain in real terms the
current programs in the energy sectors, leaves relatively little scope for
significant adjustments in the level of public expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the human, institutional and natural resources necessary
to attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty.
The short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s are
being brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. In 1979 proven oil and gas reserves were
estimated at about 40 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976; the stated goal



- 4 -
of the Government is to produce 2.5 million bbl/day by 1982. The challenge is
how Mexico can mobilize its resources--not only petroleum but also its human
skills, institutions, and experience--to help resolve its long term development
problems. The most serious of these relate to poverty, unemployment, stagna-
tion in agriculture, and urban-regional imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have unevenly participated in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the
total) had incomes less than one-third the national average. The root causes
of this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of rainfed agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally
employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly in
industry).
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias, and the expected rapid
growth of output should also create new jobs more rapidly. In spite of this
progress, however, the rapid growth of population and of the labor force made
unavoidable by the high percentage of children in today's population, renders
the eradication of absolute poverty a goal attainable only several decades
from now.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of a labor force which is growing at about 3.7 percent
per annum, will remain major problems in the years to come. With the expected
GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a. the economy will be able to absorb the
additional labor force, assuming no significant change in the participation
rate (now at about 29 percent) and taking into account an increase in labor
productivity. In absolute terms the present level of unemployment is therefore
likely to be maintained.
16.       An Employment Development Plan was published early this year.
It calls for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
both in the urban and the rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training.  Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities, especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment and underemploy-
ment, and while the institutional structure to carry out some important
programs already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effec-
tive action and make better use of human resources by substantially reducing
the level of hidden and open unemployment.



- 5 -
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown little
growth since the mid-1960s. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive
new large-scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity
(and income per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present
administration has re-organized the parts of the government that deal with
agriculture in order to design and implement a new strategy. Emphasis is
on productivity gains and yield increases. Programs for construction of
irrigation and drainage works and for rehabilitation of existing irrigation
districts to increase efficiency of water use continue. The new emphasis,
however, is on rainfed agriculture, and programs now in place should increase
the productivity of vast under-exploited areas and reverse past trends towards
larger income disparities between the modern and traditional parts of agri-
b          culture.  In contrast with the recent situation of severe shortfalls in output
due to adverse weather, these initiatives may lead to a resumption of production
growth for both domestic and export markets and an improvement in the living
conditions of the rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon to reduce poverty and unemployment. Industry
will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports. A
National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and its implications for the employment
picture. Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas,
including import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods
as well as exports of many different manufactured products. The Mexican
Petroleum Company (PEMEX) has already started an ambitious investment program
to produce a variety of primary petrochemicals on a large scale for both
domestic consumption and exports and an equally vigorous expansion is expected
in investment for the production of secondary petrochemicals. Tourism export
earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
20.       A National Development Plan is being finalized and will be published
shortly. This Plan marks the final step in the planning activities which the
current Administration has undertaken in order to obtain a more structured
picture of the economic and social problems facing the country. In the past



-6-
two years, a National Urban Development Plan, an Agricultural Development
Plan and the already mentioned Industrial Development and Employment Plans
have appeared; the forthcoming National Development Plan aims at formulating a
national development program reconciling the sectoral targets and making them
consistent with the general economic and social strategy of the Government and
with the availability of domestic and foreign financial resources.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1978. This
high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of external
public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The public debt
service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the early 1980s,
mainly as a result of rapid increases of petroleum exports. Debt service on
Bank loans amounted to about 2.8 percent of public debt service in 1978; this
ratio is projected to remain about the same during the early and mid-1980's.
The Bank currently holds about 5.5 percent of Mexico's total medium and
long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change significantly
over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
22.       As of December 31, 1979, Mexico had received 61 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,595.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 36 loans totalling US$1,710.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$3,010.2 million of which US$1,282.0 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 38 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development
(20 loans for US$1,356.4 million), 20 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million) 19 percent for transportation (13 loans for US$666.7 million), and
17 percent for industry (8 loans for US$607.5 million); the remaining 6 percent
has been for water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and
urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans as of December 31, 1979 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
23.       As of December 31, 1979, IFC had made investment commitments in
19 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$250.8 million, of which US$167.8
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of December 31, 1979, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
24.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly or



indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; and (iii) help
resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently facing. There-
fore, the Bank is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority
that help the rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of
employment and production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
25.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals:  first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the pro-
ductivity of small farmers who receive the benefit of most Bank lending through
programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural development,
(c) bringing new areas under cultivation, and (d) establishing irrigation and
drainage units; third, to complement infrastructure investments with general
support services including agricultural extension and marketing programs and
provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote on-farm employment
opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made twelve loans in FY 72 through 79, totalling US$920 million,
for irrigation, rural development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock
credit programs. Projects for rehabilitation of irrigation districts and
water control, rainfed agriculture, rural development and support services and
agricultural credit are in preparation for presentation to the Executive
Directors in the next few months.
26.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium and small-scale industry. A large steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico. The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FY78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
The proposed project aims at strengthening support to the mining sector which
up to now has received insufficient resources from the financial system. A
small and medium scale industries project has been appraised and will be
submitted to the Executive Directors in the coming months. A capital goods
industry project is under discussion for possible Bank support.
27.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The



- 8 -
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A highway sector project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A medium-size cities water supply project and a railways
project are currently under discussion for possible Bank support.
28.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
t.o deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activities
in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has recently adopted a
National Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development
priorities in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared
to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide
key regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West
Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and another project
for the southeast part of the country is being discussed with the authorities.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending has
gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance for
transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects.  The IDB and the Bank
have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the
Eank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural
Infrastructure, the Investment Program for Rural Development (PIDER), agricul-
tural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries, and hotel
development. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) is
also considering a rural development project in the state of Oaxaca which was
appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR
30.       Mining is an industry with long tradition in Mexico; it was one of
the predominant economic activities, and one of the principal sources of
foreign exchange earnings, from the sixteenth century up to the early part
cf the present one. By the 1920's however, other sectors had begun to grow
at faster rates and mining declined in relative importance. Fluctuating
international prices for minerals, occasional uncertainties about the validity
and permanence of mining rights in some areas, and insufficient incentives,
resulted in slow growth in the sector, except during the second world war
when mineral prices were high. A program to increase Mexican participation in
the ownership and management of larger mining operations initiated in the
1960's, resulted in a temporary decrease in investment in large mines; invest-
ments in large-scale copper and silver as well as other mining operations



- 9 -
have now been renewed. However, in recent years, growth in the sector as a
whole has been slow, among other reasons (see para. 49), because of inadequate
financial support, particularly for small and medium-scale enterprises.
31.       Mexico's endowment of mineral resources is substantial: about
90 percent of its territory shows geological anomalies suggesting mineral
potential. Moreover, its semi-arid climate results in thin coverage and
comparatively easy access to mineral deposits. Yet only a small fraction of
its territory has so far been explored for minerals and an even smaller
proportion has been brought into production. In spite of this, Mexico is a
significant producer of a number of minerals: it is the world's largest
producer of silver, fluorspar and graphite, and is among the largest five
producers of lead, zinc, mercury, sulphur, barite, bismuth, arsenic and
antimony. In total, fifty different minerals are mined commercially. About
48 percent of Mexico's production is exported, generating about $510 million
in foreign exchange in 1978.
32.       There are about 15,000 mines in operation in Mexico at the present
time. The great majority are small and are operated by individuals or small
enterprises. The few relatively large mining enterprises in the country fre-
quently operate several small or medium-size mines, there being few large-
scale mining operations as such. This is both a reflection of the fragmented
and varied nature of the country's geological resources, of high ore grades,
and of the relatively low cost of labor which enables smaller mines to compete
more or less effectively with capital-intensive operations. There is, however,
a constant movement of enterprises between the small and medium-size categories,
and in some cases from medium to large operations. 1/ Historically, most of the
larger mining concerns had their origin in small mines which used increasingly
larger and more efficient mineral beneficiation facilities. Though the size
distribution of mining concerns shows a heavy preponderance of small and
medium-size enterprises, large companies account for the bulk of production
and exports. Thus, it is estimated that 95 percent of the mining companies
accounted for only one quarter of the value of mining production in 1978.
33.       In order to set conditions which would be conducive to renewed
growth in the mining sector, the Government reformed mining legislation in
1975 to make more explicit its policies on the granting of exploration and
production concessions, thus providing a firmer basis for the private sector
to take the lead in investing in the sector. It has also adopted a strategy
of lending support to small and medium mining enterprises; this is expected to
result in greater production and employment by these enterprises.  Consistent
with previous legislation on new investments in industry, the 1975 Mining Law
stipulates that Mexicans must own a majority in enterprises engaged in mining,
mineral processing and trading. Large deposits of iron ore, coal, sulphur,
phosphate and fluorite belong to the National Mineral Reserve however, and can
only be exploited with a predominant participation of the State.
1/   See footnote to para. 52 for a definition of "small and medium" mines.



- 10 -
34.       The tax treatment of mining activities was also improved.  Instead of
multiple and comparatively high taxes levied on the value of production and
exports, the new structure introduced in 1977 combines production taxes ranging
from 4 to 9 percent on the value of output (depending on the mineral produced)
and income taxes. It includes allowances for reinvestment in exploration and
development, and gives special treatment to medium and small-scale mining
companies. The new Mining Law and the revised tax treatment have been well
received by the private sector and are contributing to renewed interest in
mining investment.
35.       Mexico has a well developed banking system, comprising more than 200
public, private and mixed ownership financial institutions. Most large mining
enterprises are able to obtain financial assistance from domestic banks as well
as foreign financial institutions. Small and medium-scale enterprises, however,
have limited access to the banking system. Given the limited knowledge
of the mining sector among domestic banks, and the generally insufficient
experience among mining enterpreneurs in preparing projects in a form accept-
able to financial institutions, investment financing for medium and small-
scale mining enterprises has been extremely limited. As can be expected, the
smallest enterprises have the greatest difficulty in obtaining financing at
reasonable terms because they lack adequate collateral and established
operating and credit records.
36.       The lack of access of small and medium-scale mining enterprises
to bank financing is in part compensated by three Government financing and
technical assistance institutions serving the sector. These are: The Comision
de Fomento Minero (CFM), and Fideicomiso Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos (FM)
and the Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM). The three institutions operate
with a high degree of autonomy but are formally responsible to, and coordinated
by, the Ministry of National Patrimony and Industrial Development (SEPAFIN),
with the heads of the three institutions reporting directly to the Subsecretary
of Mines and Energy.
The Comision de Fomento Minero
37.       CFM is the oldest and largest of the government agencies assisting
the mining sector.  It was created in 1938 to help the development and
exploitation of mineral deposits throughout Mexico. Its objectives are:
(i) to serve as a holding company for Government investments in mining and
related companies and as an executing agency for large-scale projects in the
public sector, (ii) to provide financial assistance to private or mixed-
ownership, small and medium-scale mining enterprises, (iii) to operate
regional beneficiation and other plants to process minerals produced by
medium and small private mines, thus reducing the transport cost of such
minerals and encouraging their production, and (iv) to provide technical
assistance to mining enterprises, mostly of medium and small size.
38.       CFM's overall policy making body is its Board of Directors, which
is headed by the Minister of National Patrimony and Industrial Development
and which includes representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Public
Credit, Commerce, SEPAFIN, NAFINSA and representatives of the private mining



- 11 -
sector. Day-to-day operations are the responsibility of CFM's Director
General. He is assisted by a General Manager and several heads of departments
and divisions, responsible, respectively, for operations of affiliate companies,
promotion and credit operations, technical evaluation, regional beneficiation
plants, economic studies, administration, laboratories and 1  al matters.
CFM maintains twelve regional offices throughout Mexico to provide technical
assistance and eight promotion offices. CFM has a staff of 234 professionals
about half of which are stationed in its field offices. CFM's management and
staff is adequately qualified, competent for its tasks, and well motivated.
39.       Up to the mid-1970's, CFM emphasized mainly its roles as a holding
company for the Government in mining-related enterprises and as a promoter of
mining projects in the public sector. CFM's financial assistance to medium
and small-scale enterprises in the private sector had been small until then,
though its regional beneficiation plant and technical assistance services
were valued instruments of support. In 1975 however, and consistent with the
Government's overall strategy of encouraging the private sector to take the
initiative in investment, CFM began to give greater emphasis to its program in
support of small and medium-scale enterprises. As a consequence, annual
approvals of credit and leasing operations were more than twice as high during
1978 and 1979 (when they amounted to about US$26 million equivalent) than in
the three year period 1975-1977. Since the base from which it started such
operations was small, CFM expects to increase the value of financial commitments
to the sector by 30 percent annually between 1980 and 1982. To undertake this
task, CFM is strengthening its policies and procedures for project and credit
evaluation and for project supervision and portfolio control.
Fideicomiso de Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos
40.       FM was established in 1974 as a Federal Government trust fund
administered by NAFINSA to stimulate exploration, exploitation and marketing of
non-metallic minerals in Mexico. It was considered that a separate organization
was required because the mining, processing and marketing of these minerals is
in some respects different from that of metallic minerals, because a special
effort was required to promote their use, and because deposits of these
minerals frequently occur in ejido 1/ land, presenting special mining right
and other legal problems. FM's objectives are to promote the production of
non-metallic minerals by assisting the private sector and ejidos, provide
technical assistance and the necessary infrastructure for this task, and, when
necessary, take the lead in carrying out projects.
41.       FM's governing body is a Technical Committee headed by the Minister of
National Patrimony and Industrial Development and including representatives of
the Ministries of Finance, Commerce and Programming and Budgeting, CFM and
NAFINSA, as well as other concerned Government departments. The Committee
takes an active interest in FM's affairs and approves all financial assistance
1/   Land owned by cooperatives created under the Mexican agrarian reform laws.



- 12 -
transactions in excess of Mex$3 million.  FM's management and staff of 52
professionals are well prepared, competent and suitably motivated. FM intends
to carry out training programs to improve its professional staff's skills in
project evaluation and control, financial analysis and management.
42.       FM started operations in 1976 and has mainly concentrated on estab-
lishing and operating mining companies to carry out projects identified by the
authorities as having high priority. The volume of its credit operations
for non-affiliated companies has so far been limited, and amounted to US$2.2
million equivalent up to June 30, 1979. In compliance with the Government's
desire to extend support to small and medium mines, FM intends to expand
its credit support functions significantly in the future. It also plans to
start a program of long-term equipment leasing (with purchase option) for
private mine operators; this would fill an important need, particularly for
small mining enterprises which are unable to obtain financing for equipment
because of an insufficient credit record. FM is also considering a further
diversification of its operations to include the installation and operation of
regional beneficiation plants to process minerals produced by private mine
operators. These functions would enable it to offer services parallel to
throse provided by CFM in the metallic mineral sector, providing valuable
support to enterprises in the non-metallic mineral field.
Consejo de Recursos Minerales
43.       CRM was created in 1957 and is a decentralized agency under the
general supervision of SEPAFIN. Its functions are to carry out geological
surveys, exploration and mineral evaluation programs and to advise the Govern-
ment on various aspects of mining development, such as the establishment of
National Mineral Reserves, the granting of concessions, and on all matters
related to the exploration, exploitation and preservation of mineral resources.
Promising deposits are turned over to CFM or FM in order that mining operations
may be promoted.
44.       CRM also provides valuable geological advice and services to mining
eiterprises in the private sector through its field offices and technical
assistance through its laboratories. The latter provide assaying services and
carry out mineralogical studies, for which fees are charged to the corresponding
enterprises. CRM has recently been directed to orient its exploration and
mineral evaluative work more clearly towards the identification of specific
mLning projects rather than to general regional surveys. This is expected to
result in a greater number of opportunities for small and medium mining
operations over the next few years, particularly since CRM has already
acacumulated a considerable amount of basic geological information on several
regions of the country on which to base its identification work.
45.       CRM offers privately owned mining enterprises assistance in explora-
tion programs to either identify new mineral deposits or extend existing ones.
CRM carries out the exploration work and evaluates results and enables enter-
prises to repay the cost of such programs on either a risk-sharing or secured
basis. The risk-sharing arrangement is used when enterprises cannot afford
the full cost of CRM's exploration work; CRM allows them to repay up to



- 13 -
90 percent of exploration costs at extended terms. If no exploitable
deposits are found CRM absorbs this share of costs. If, on the other hand,
commercially exploitable deposits are identified, the enterprise repays CRM's
share plus a 20 percent premium and interest charges at the rate of about
15 percent ner annum. In addition, the enterprise pays CRM a royalty of
between 1 and 3 percent of the value of production for a period of up to ten
years. CRM reserves the right to discontinue exploration work if the initial
results are not promising. CRM's program is thus comparable to an exploration
fund as the risks are shared among a large number of enterprises with the
successful cases helping cover a large part of the cost of the unsuccessful
ones. Exploration credit is also offered to enterprises which are able to
absorb the full cost of such programs; in such cases credits are fully secured,
and though an exploration premium and interest on outstanding balances are
charged, no royalties on subsequent production are collected.
46.       CRM's Director General is a respected geologist with many years
experience in the mining sector of Mexico. He reports to a Board of Directors
headed by the Minister of National Patrimony and Industrial Development and
including representatives of several Ministries and Government agencies with
interest in the mining sector. CRM's operations are directed from its head
office in Mexico City, but three quarters of its staff are based at 27 regional
offices distributed throughout the country; it employs 625 professionals, more
than half of whom are geologists. Staff turnover has tended to be high but
salary levels are now being reviewed with a view to making CRM more competitive
with the private sector. Large-scale and complex technical problems have been
assessed by CRM with the assistance of consultants.
Environmental and Safety Considerations
47.       Small and medium mines are required to meet federal environmental
standards and usually have little problem in doing so. Chemical effluents and
toxic vapors resulting from the operation of small and medium mines are negli-
gible. Safety standards can likewise be met easily by most small and medium
mines since they usually work narrow veins and do not have to cope with
serious explosive gas and ground support problems. The Labor Department
routinely carries out safety inspections of mines.
Prospects for the Mining Sector and Constraints
48.       Given Mexico's mining potential, and with adequate financial and
technical support, a large number of small and medium mining enterprises would
be able to operate efficiently and profitably. Because small and medium-size
mines are distributed over a wide geographic area in Mexico, development of the
sector would help reduce disparities in regional income and help increase
employment in outlying areas. The basic institutional structure required to
assist the sector already exists but needs to be reinforced and directed more
clearly towards development of small and medium-scale mining enterprises.
49.       The main constraints to the develoment of small and medium-scale
mining enterprises are: (i) insufficient geological work and exploration because
many enterprises have not yet developed their capacity to undertake systematic



-14 -
exploration work, (ii) technical and administrative deficiencies in the manage-
ment of enterprises, for instance in the planning of mining activities and the
preparation of projects for presentation to financial institutions, (iii) an
insufficient flow of resources from the financial system to the sector because
banks do not have experience in evaluating mining projects, (iv) lack of mineral
concentrating facilities in areas of mining potential to reduce the cost of
transporting minerals, and (v) a scarcity of experienced professionals, both
in mining companies and in some of the supporting institutions. Several
universities and technical colleges are, however, now offering courses in
geology, mining engineering and related fields, and it can be expected that
in a few years there will be an adequate supply of professionals. The proposed
project addresses itself to helping resolve the first four constraints. It is
to be the first phase of a new Government program to assist the development of
the small and medium-scale mining sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The project aims at helping make better use of Mexico's considerable
mineral resources and at generating additional employment, especially among
relatively low income groups in outlying areas. It would reinforce the main
Government institutions giving support to the sector and help them focus more
clearly on the needs of small and medium-size enterprises.  A brief description
of the project may be found in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning
of this report.
51.       The project was first discussed with CFM's Director in 1977 and
later in Washington during meetings with high Government officials in March
1978, when views were exchanged on how the Bank might assist Mexico in its
development programs. Further discussions were held in Mexico in May and a
Bank identification mission visited Mexico in October 1978. A general review
of the sector was carried out in February 1979. After a preparation mission
in May 1979, appraisal took place in September 1979. Negotiations took place
in February 1980 and the Mexican negotiating team was headed by Mr. Pedro
Galicia of NAFINSA and included the Directors of CFM and FM as well as
Government and CRM representatives. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2764-b-ME
of February 25, 1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Annex III provides supplementary data on the project.
Project Description
52.       The project would provide financial and technical assistance to small
and medium-size enterprises 1/ in the mining sector to help expand their
exploration, mine development and production programs and would help support
the institutions assisting mining enterprises. Specifically, it would include:
1/   For purposes of the project, "small and medium" enterprises are those
with annual production not in excess of Mex$150 million and beneficiation
plants not larger than 500 tons/day of crude mineral in the case of
metallic mineral producing enterprises and 800 tons/day in the case of
non-metallic mineral producing enterprises. These definitions would be
reviewed from time to time by the Bank and the Borrower during project
implementation; the value limit on annual production would be adjusted
with reference to the current value of an agreed basket of minerals.



- 15 -
A. Credit and Equipment Leasing
(a) financing of fixed assets, including machinery and equipment, to small
and medium-scale enterprises mining metallic minerals through CFM, and
non-metallic minerals through FM. Financing would be in the form of
term loans and of leases of equipment (with option to purchase) for
mine preparation, mineral extraction and mineral concentration/benefi-
ciation projects;
(b) permanent working capital loans associated with projects described
under (a) to be financed with Government resources;
(c) loans to small and medium-scale enterprises through CFM for ore
reserve development on both a risk-sharing and secured basis;
B. Regional Beneficiation Plants
about ten regional beneficiation plants, six or seven to be operated
by CFM and three by FM, to process minerals produced by numerous
small and medium-scale mining enterprises; these plants would permit
new mining regions to develop by reducing the transport cost of
minerals and would help small miners by enabling them to benefit
from the economies of scale of larger equipment than they might
purchase themselves.
C. Technical Assistance
(a) technical assistance to small and medium-size enterprises, to be
provided by CFM, FM and CRM in association with the above mentioned
financial assistance;
(b)  equipment to enable CRM to assist small and medium-scale enterprises
in exploration and mine development; and equipment for CRM's labora-
tories for chemical, metallurgical and other analyses; and
(c) equipment for CFM's and FM's laboratories, including the estab-
lishment of up to four small regional laboratories to assist small
and medium-scale enterprises in areas at some distance from Mexico
City.
The attached map (IBRD 14778) shows the proposed and existing location of
CFM and FM regional beneficiation plants and field offices.
Project Implementation
53.       An ad-hoc Coordinating Committee would be established within SEPAFIN
under the Chairmanship of the Subsecretary of Mines and Energy to coordinate
the activities of the three institutions participating in the project. While
each of the three institutions will be primarily responsible for appraising
the financial, economic and technical viability of projects proposed to it by
mining enterprises and for supervising their execution, the Coordinating
Committee would examine a sample of the proposals to insure that proper
standards are applied. The Coordinating Commitee would be assisted in these
tasks by a small staff of experienced professionals and, when necessary, by



- 16 -
consultants. SEPAFIN has agreed to carry out a program of training for
the staff of CFM, FM and CRM in order that the volume of transactions with
small and medium mining enterprises visualized under the project may be
undertaken without difficulty.
54.        In carrying out the project, CFM and FM would observe Operating
Guidelines which have been reviewed by the Bank and which would be formally
adopted before the proposed loan is made effective (see Section 8.01 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Under the terms of these Guidelines, the maximum
subloan amount would normally be Mex$15 million (about US$652,000) for fixed
assets to develop a new or existing mine and Mex$30 million (about US$1.3
million) to construct a new or expand an existing beneficiation plant.
The maximum size of an equipment leasing operation would be Mex$5 million
(about US$217,000). In addition, total financing available to a single
enterprise, or group of associated enterprises, would not exceed Mex$50
million (about US$2.2 million).  These limits would be reviewed from time to
time with the Bank in the light of experience under the project. Repayment
terms and grace periods granted to mining enterprises would be in accordance
to the nature of the project being financed and each enterprise's capacity
to repay.
55.        Prior Bank approval would be required for the first three subloan
proposals for mine development projects and the first three other subloan
proposals processed each calendar year by CFM and by FM, all subloan proposals
involving US$400,000 or more of Bank resources, all subloans to enterprises
in which CFM and FM have a controlling interest, all regional beneficiation
plants and the first five leasing operations each calendar year involving Bank
resources of US$50,000 or more processed by CFM and FM (see Sections 2.02(b)
and 2.02(c)(iii) of the Draft Loan Agreement). On the whole, the Bank is
expected to review one quarter to one third of the projects financed under
the loan and involving about 50 percent of the loan amount.
Interest Rates on Subloans
56.        CFM and FM would carry the credit risk on subloans.  Enterprises
requesting assistance from CFM and FM would have the option of obtaining
loans denominated in pesos or in foreign currencies. The majority of loans
are, however, expected to be in pesos and interest charges would be between
1.5 and 2.0 percentage points above the average cost of funds to financieras
and financial departments of multipurpose banks, as computed by the Banco de
Mexico (the ACF index) (see Section 2.05(b) of the Draft Project Agreement
with CFM and Section 5.02(b) of the Draft Loan Agreement). Interest rates
would be adjusted every six months. These interest charges are compar-
able on the average to those charged under a Small and Medium-Scale Industry
Develoment Project being financed by the Bank under Loan 1552-ME, and which
are also linked to the ACF. This index has risen from 16.2 percent per annum
Ln January of 1979 to 18.4 percent in February 1980 in response to higher
rates in world money markets and the Government's policy of allowing domestic
interest rates to rise sufficiently to retain resources in the financial
system. The consumer price index has been increasing at an annual rate of
around 18-20 percent over the past two years.



- 17 -
57.       Subloans denominated in US dollars would carry interest charges of
at least one percentage point above LIBOR and those in other currencies
would carry comparable interest charges. The Government and the Bank would
review interest charges for foreign currency subloans from time to time and
adjust minimum rates in the light of market conditions.
58.       Long-term leasing contracts, with option to purchase, granted by CFM
and FM for equipment would be denominated in pesos and rental payments would
be computed to ensure an effective return on capital consistent with the
interest rates charged on peso loans. Fees charged by CFM and FM for process-
ing minerals at their regional beneficiation plants would be established to
recover the capital cost of such plants, a return on capital equivalent to the
rate of interest charged on loans under the project and operating and mainte-
nance costs (see Section 2.05(e) of the Draft Project Agreement with CFM and
Section 5.02(e) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
Resource Needs and Bank Financing
59.       Based on the level of past operations of the three participating
institutions, their plans to increase staff to process a higher volume of
operations, and on estimates of the small and medium-scale mining sector's
likely demand for resources over a period of 30 to 36 months, the Government
estimates that the equivalent of about US$107 million would be required to
finance the project. This is based on the assumption that CFM and FM will
extend credit for up to 85 percent of the cost of subprojects submitted by
mining enterprises. The Government has requested a Bank loan of US$40 million
equivalent to finance the foreign exchange cost of the project; the Government
would meet local costs.
60.       The borrower would be NAFINSA, as financial agent for the Government,
and Bank resources would be transferred to CFM, FM and CRM as required;
resources would remain in the respective institutions and would be used for
purposes similar to the project (see Sections 5.09 of the Loan Agreement and
2.11 of the Project Agreement with CFM). The Government would carry the
foreign exchange risk and repay the loan through NAFINSA. A Bank loan of
17 years, including four years of grace, is recommended. Since Government
approval and counterpart resources were made available for the project as of
January 1, 1980, the Executing Agencies have initiated procurement of some
items for regional beneficiation plants and equipment leasing. It is recom-
mended that up to US$1.5 million of the proposed loan be made available to
retroactively finance expenditures for such items made after February 1, 1980.
Disbursements
61.       The proposed loan would cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of
the project and disbursements would be made on the basis of 45 percent of
total expenditures for machinery, equipment and other investment goods and
25 percent of total expenditures for civil works.



- 18 -
Auditing
62.       The accounts of FM, CFM and CRM would be audited according to
standards satisfactory to the Bank once yearly (see Section 6.02 of the Draft
Loan Agreement and Sections 3.02 of the draft Project Agreements with CFM and
CRM).
Procurement
63.       Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
credit component of proposed loan would be the customary ones for industrial
credit operations. CFM and FM would be responsible for ensuring the competi-
tiveness in price and quality of items procured, and their suitability for
the purpose intended. CFM and FM's subloan agreements would contain provisions
to ensure satisfactory procurement procedures along these lines. Domestic
producers of mining and mineral beneficiation equipment are reasonably efficient
and competitive in international terms. In the case of other goods and civil
works purchased by the executing agencies (i.e., for leasing operations,
regional beneficiation plants and equipment for technical assistance) in
packages of goods and civil works of US$1 million or more, international
competitive bidding according to Bank guidelines would be required. Packages
of goods or civil works of US$500,000 or more would also be purchased by
international competitive bidding. Local suppliers of goods would be entitled
to a 15 percent margin of preference or the applicable import duties and
taxes, whichever is lower. Packages estimated to cost less than these limits
would be procured on the basis of the Government's procurement procedures,
which have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
Project Benefits and Risks
64.       The project would be one of the Government's main instruments for
supporting growth in the mining sector. It would help develop Mexico's consider-
able potential for producing metallic and non-metallic minerals by assisting
small and medium-size mining concerns. Such enterprises can add substantially
to production and employment in mining. The investment cost per job created
is lower than in many branches of manufacturing industry in Mexico (about
US$7,000 equivalent per job for small mines and US$12,000 equivalent for
medium-size mines) and the project is expected to result in as much as 14 to
16 thousand direct new employment opportunities. Small and medium-size mining
concerns have traditionally been the origin of large mining operations in
Mexico, so their development could stimulate large-scale production of some
minerals in the future.
65.       The project would also support the Government's regional diversifica-
tion efforts. Mining resources are widely distributed in Mexico, there being
little mining in the traditional centers of economic activity. The bulk of
new employment generation is therefore likely to be in outlying areas where
employment needs are greatest and where new job opportunities are likely
to reduce migration to already congested cities.
66.       Lastly, but perhaps most importantly, the project would have a
considerable institution building impact by reinforcing the three agencies
concerned -- CFM, FM and CRM--, helping them focus on the needs of small and
medium-scale enterprises and coordinating their activities more closely.



- 19 -
67.       The project presents two kinds of risks: firstly, that the parti-
cipating agencies may not be able to increase their financial commitments
to assist small and medium-scale mining enterprises as quickly as forecast
because of insufficient manpower or other institutional constraints. Since
the Government is taking adequate steps to prepare the agencies concerned for
the project, this risk is acceptable.  The second is a market   sk; if inter-
national prices for minerals should drop sharply, demand for investment
financing under the project might be reduced. In view of the broad range
of minerals produced in Mexico -- over 50 different ones are mined at the
present time -- and of the generally favorable outlook for most minerals,
this risk seems acceptable. In the event of a severe decline in prices,
the project's implementation period could be extended beyond the time now
anticipated. On the whole, the project presents a moderate level of risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and NAFINSA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreements between the Bank and CFM and the Bank and CRM, as well as
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of effectiveness would be that CFM and FM formally
adopt Operating Guidelines for the Project satisfactory to the Bank.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March  6 , 1980



- 20-                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AEA (THUSANDSQ. KM)XCO  REFERENCE GROUPS    AYERAGES
LAyD AREA (THOUSAND SQ. M.)M                                               - MOST RECENT-ESTTE)
TOTAL  U        19R72 .4                                               SAME         SAME     NEWX  HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    944.9                                MOST RECENT    GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOKE
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /a
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                380.0       710.0   1290.0           1124.4    1097.7       1942.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(:ILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    770.0      1047.0   1227.0            943.1      730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    36.4        50.3      63.3
URBAN POFULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.3       59.3      63.2.           59.3       49.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      204.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1Q.                      18.0        26.0      32.0            23.5       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. ARCICULTURAL LAND    36.0        52.0      67.0            80.5      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        45.6        46.5      45.9            40.9       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                        51.0        50.0      50.6            54.4       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.4         3.5       3.5             3.9        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.1         3.3       3.3             2.4        2.4         1.7
URBN- 4.9                                     4.8       4.6             3.7        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0        42.0      38.0            32.8       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    12.0         9.0       8.0             8.5  ,    9.2          9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2         3.1       3.0             2.4        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..        25.1    608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..      21.0            17.7       34.7
FOOD AND NUTRI-ION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         87.5       100.0      96.1            99.4      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 107.0       105.0    117.0            107.0      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         65.0        65.0      66.9            60.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      29.0        28.0/f   27.5             28.3       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    14.0         9.8       6.0             6.7        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   58.0        62.4      64.7            63.6       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          78.0        74.0        ..            76.1       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUJLATION)
TOTAL                              *-        54.0      62.0            63.4       60.8        69.4
URBAN                              *-        71.0      70.0            79.5       75.7        85.1
RURAL                              *-        29.0      49.0            38.6       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..            58.8       46.0        70.1
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..            77.8       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              ..        13.0      14.0            24.5       22.5        33.2
FOPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN         1700.0      1440.0        ..          1841.9    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      1570.0        ..           933.7    1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1900.0       930.0    860.0            563.4      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..       780.0    770.0            279.4      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..      1310.0/g  1090.0          1140.9    2732.4       1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            25.7       22.1        17.3
HOUS INYG
AVERAGE SIZE OF 'LOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.4         5.7        ..             5.0        5.3         4.7
URBANS                            5.7         5.7        ..             4.8        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             5.2         5.8        ..             5.3        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.9         2.5        ..             1.3        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             2.6         2.2        ..             1.3        1.6         1.2
RURAL                             3.4         3.2        ..             1.5        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELCT7RICITY (?ERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        59.0        ..            54.3       50.0        66.0
URBAN                              ..        80.7        ..            80.1       71.7        85.1
RURAL                               '        28.0        ..            14.2       17.3



- 21-                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                   REFERENCE (-SOUPS (ADJUSTED A7ERAGES
-MOST RLECENIT ESTIMATE) 
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
AWUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 80.0       104.0     116.0            107.3      102.5       L01.7
MALE                 82.0       107.0     116.0            109.1      108.6       110.0
FEKALE               77.0       102.0     114.0           107.4        97.1        92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        22.0      37.0             40.5       33.5        51.2
MALE                 14.0        27.0      40.0             40.4       38.4        56.4
FEMALE                8.0        17.0      34.0            39.0        30.7        43.7
VOCATIONAL EnROt. (I OF 3ECONDARY)  24.0        24.0        ..             18.5       11.5        18.3
PVIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0        46.0      46.0             37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONIDARY                        13.0        14.0      17.0             17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       65.0        74.0      76.0             77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        14.0        24.0      41.6            29.1        13.5        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TXOUSAND
POPULATION                        95.0       276.0     301.0            172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        19.0        59.0      84.0             67.9       38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GNElRAL
nLTErREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0          ..        ..             76.1       40.0        78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0         5.0       4.2              4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11300.0     13000.0   16600.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        17.4      18.5            21.5        25.0        24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1        39.4      34.0             30.2       43.5        28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.5        22.9      25.0            23.8        21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2        28.8      28.8             30.9       33.5        33.8
MALE                                51.1        47.4      46.8             47.3       48.0        51.3
FEXAtE                               9.2        10.1      10.7             13.3       16.8        16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.9       1.8              1.5        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUT-1(N
PERCENT OF PRIVATZ INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.7/h      27.9      23.9            23.7        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF aOUSEHOLDS  58.8/h      58.3      54.4             58.7       52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OtF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5/h      3.4       2.9             2.9         3.9         3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.37w      10.5      10.4              9.9       12.6        11.0
POVERTY TARCS'r (.KOUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    270.0            265.6       170.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    216.0            185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    332.0            396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    332.0            308.1       248.9       403.4
ESTIMIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            35.2        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            46.6        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages Eor each indicator are population-weighced geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most .-"p.ulated country in each group. Coverage .[' ct--Icries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, daca for 1960 refer co any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Mfost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and Iq77.
c Latin America . Caribbean;  /d  Intermediate Middle Income (S551-1135 per captt.,, 1976);  /e  Upper
Middle Income (S1136-250l) per capita. 1976); /f  Av. 1964-66;  /g  Data refer to rural health centers only;
/h  1963.
,ost Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                                           Page 3of 5
DWINIlIM OF BWIAL, INICATOSP
lo.tes   Although the data a-  drain  fr   souce  generlly judged tbe mast athnritatiee and relable, it should aam  be noted th.t they asp not be inter.-.
Atonally en.parble becans  of the bak of standardised definitions sad .-ncat. used by different coutries in collecting the data. The data ne, nonetheles,
useful to describe orders of magnitude, 1.dcnate trends, sod o-banterinecrti  major differece  beteec coutrie..
The adjusted gyop avrsges for ank indicator  -r  popoatin-veighted geometric mean, enouding the eori.  values of the indiosto  sod the mont ppoplated
coutry In each group.  Doe to lob of data, group aveage  of all indinators for Capital Surplus Oil Exporter  and of indicators of Amores to Water nod Eocretn
Disposal1, Hooiag, Incm  ldistribution and Poverty for other coutry group  are popnA3tio-mighted geetrio  me-   ithbot enoluin  of the .otrea values and
the  -ot popsslted coutry.  Since. the coverage of cen itela   ng the indicators dePen  ds enaalblt f data sd is out uniform. ction most hr  -erised
inelating avrae  of n  indicator to santie.,  Tee-aM..se  ar motly  -afal as  pprunato                     f   netd   aueehen coparidg the value  ofoe
indictor at a tim   .amn the  onr   n  efrnegoss
SAND ASA (thousad sFuk.)                                                               AcstoEreaDsol(pcntfpolti)  I- ota, .uba,sarul
T   Point1 sufac  areocprising land are  and inland eaters.                        t eopeople  totl, urba,ndralsevdbeuetdspa                                  o
AgricUltura   _Mtat recet estimate of agicultural are  use..d temporarily               percen.tages oftheir respective popeltican.  .tuet  dinpon..nap inclde
or p.ermnetly for  ropo, pastures, narht and kithbe  gardens or to                   the co11etion and disposal, with or ethinot treatnet, of huma  e-ret
lie falc.                                                                            and ente-etor by noter-boror syct-m  or the us  of pit prvessd ouoillu
SNP PIP CAPITA (TJS$) - GNP pry capita estimates at crrent market prices,               P.c= caio  peM babin- Population divided by oonber of prauticiog physician
..csdl.t.d,by same convrsion   etii as World Snob Atlas (i976-78 bs);                  qualified fro  a medical soho. at university leve...
196o, 1970,an  197T8 data.                                                           Poosstica  Me train   Person - PopUation divided by nuber of praticing sale
2[pqY CCsISUPTPCI0f PEP CAPITA - Annual coecuti-onfc  c-mrial energy                     and f-nle gradute nurses, practical nuss,sd  mnistatnus.
(calad ligpite, petruleu, naturl gu and hydr-, nuclear and ge-                    P.nlto   e  Hosia.        e    oa,ubn   n  rurlb-Pplto   (ca,ubn
thermal electricity) in kitbgr-n  of coalI equinle.et per capita; 1960,                an   ual   iided by their, respective outer ohspital beds nvilablc in
1970, and 1976 dais.                                                                   public and private genral and apecialoed hoipital and reinbilitatiot -rutero.
Ji_pitsie are _stblishm.otsp.rmsrtly staffed by at inset  -o  hsiO
PORUiAT0Ig AND VrIM  STATISTICS                                                          Entablishento providing principally custdial cor  ar  not included, bRn-.
Tstal Pplto.m-er(ilos  - As of July 1; i96o, i97o, and                                 hospitals  hmecr, ilacide health and medical ceter  not peraetly ctntffc
1977 data.                                                                           by a phynlinia  (but by a medical assistant, nurs, midwife, etc.) shich offer
Urban PppUtion (percent of total) - Patio of urban to total popoitico;                  in-patient  -ncdatioa and provide n limited range of asdical failities
differn  definitiosa of urban ara  may affect comp-rbility of data                 Addision  prHsital Bed - Total nuber of ndmisi.n. to or dibohbarge  fron
en.g coutries; 1960, 1970, and 1975 data.                                            hosiasdivided by the ou ter of beds.
bP.D.lti.gPrfj.ctiy5s
Populatio- in ypp0SS - C,srret population projections ar  b-on  on               it5SINf
195tota  po ltice by age and eu and their motaity and fertility               Average dine of Househobi (persons- per household) - total, urban, an  coci1
rates. Projection parmeer  for sciality rates coprise of three                     d hoob-hid  -ceodto of a group of iediriddan  h.o shar  licig qu-ticr  and
beeo  suing irf.e ropotany at birth increasing with coutry,                   their main meals. A boarder or lodger any or asp sot in included it tir
Per c-pitn incom  bevel, sd fensle life copeotany stbhilisiog at                   household for cttintical porpones.
77.5 year.  The paramters for fertility rate also ha-e three bevel               Avrae naber of person  per ross- totl ura,ad rural - A-veeo punie
assuing deoiine in fertility according to incm  leve  and past                    of por      perroo  in all urban  and rualocupied  --votio..sI docibig,
famly planing performnc. Snob coutry is then ansigoed on  of these                 respectively.   ce_lings eiclde con-permnet  t-utur-  and unccpied pnc-.
nine -cbintio- of mortality and fr-tility trends foe projection                  Access to Electricity  percet of deeulngs) - total, urban, and crb1    Coo-
perposen.                                                                          venional deellinga cm   electricity  inlng Wtu-tr  no percettago of
itatioosry ppltics - I.nsttioo.  ppoplation there is no groth                        total, urba, and rural domingo respectively.
sinoc the birth rate is ecual to the death rate, and also ins age
otructure r-eino  -cotnt. Thin in ahievd only after fertility  -nten          EmcTOipcN
declios to the replacnet bevel of emit net repr-d-tione.te, when                 Adjusted Ei,roiet Panics
each geo-rtion of -ce  repbace  itn-If e-ntly.  The stationary pope-               Pi-y~ shoboob - totnl sale and female -Orons total, ale and fe-le c-11-
batin doe  -a  estimated on the momi  of tic projected charateristics                met of nib ag est the prinary Ibvl np-erotago  of ceopcotice prinsy
of tic ppoputbon in tic year 2000, and tic cnte of idolise of fertibity              school-age pepultbon_;  _omalyinludes childrso aged i-lb yetit bto
rate to replacemet leve.                                                             adjuntod for diffecest beogths of primacy  duratico; for --utrie- cith
Year tn.tiomnr  puticon in reached - The yen the  staticoary population               uiesl-uninorinn   n  eoe   0   ecn   ic   onppb
obo   baube  reahed.                                                              ar  beive or niov  tic offkicia  aoil age.
Population D-nity                                                                      iecodsy  oo~fli- total, male and female - Competed no ni.co;ce-oeday
Per us  a. -MId-year popolotioc per oq-ar kiionter (ii 00         ars  of              cdctor      _n.c   t lent four Years of approrod primac y iucoi
total. re                                                                            pr-vid-n g-enrl  -cctic..al, or teacher training icot-oti-n  for pupilo
Per no. in   gric-bturn  land - C-mpted so nio- for ngci-ultur  land                   uually of 11 to 17 eore of age;  -crr-p-dn-cne....oor  g-nc-aly
only.                                                                                 - colded.
Population Age Str-tur  (p-eat) - Cnildren (0-it peac) wrhin-a -go                     Vocational eacoli t (cerceno of secodary) - Po-ti-oi i-otitutio-oi.l.de
(15-iyas,adrtrd(5yasado )n pecetages of nid-psac                                       tc-hi-1, industrial, or other pog-a   ohiob operote idepeodectlyore
populat ion; 1960, 1970, sod 1977 dnts.                                                depsrtent  of seosny  otitutican.
Population G-thi ane (percent) - tota  - Annu-l or-th rates of total mid-              Popil-teaie  ratio  _ primacy, nA seconday-Totl otudeoto ec-o1bod to
yerppltioco for 1950-bc, lpOC-70, and 1970-77.                                    primacy and  e.oadr  lce-ls divided by nobr   f tc-hero ic tic  --cm
PopdUltion irc-ti cane (percent) - urban - Annua gS--th roles of urban                   spending lecels.
pepointioc, fo 950-h6, 19bO-fl, and 1970-75.                                         AdAut lit-ro  rate  pc--tn) - Literate ndultc (nic to rend caerd o-ite)n
C-d. Bihosad)-rtuh  lv  teto   e  touad of mid-                                        ecnaeo   to1 taadlt popelntico agod 1or   n   vr
year PoPultin,     b6,j9,ad 1977 data.
Crude D.ath One.7tosn)- Annua doathc per thcuonod of uid-yeu                       CONSUPT0IONis
popolat-on19.0, 1970, -d 1977 data.                                                 Pacoceger Cars  per thousad punulnti.c) - Panengor car  cnprice eut-cet-
irs 'Seroc 'o Rnto - Average ounier of d-9ht-  n oce-  cill tea                   seating icon tbam eight pomona; coobIes ambulanes  he-tere  ed cibitary
i. her normal reproductive pcricd if uhe roperi__ocro pcct age-                       -ehiols.
epecific fertibity rates; usuall1y fiv-yea  averges ending is i96i                 Psdic s:eeilrec  (per thoooand population) - All types of reciucro for  odic
i970, and 195.                                                                       br_ni_ato to      . goral pubicc  t      _unn  of p lepnti-n;  -coldro uliceoced
Pumbly PI,inln  - Acceptors. Annua (thousands) - uncoo  nomer of                       receivee  in countries and in Yeurs  hein-giotrntnicc of -adicoctos-oin
accetr  o bit-cotrol devices under aupice, of national  fumily                       eff-ct; data for recet yesro sup not be  -op-roti   i-c  o-t  - i
piigprogram.                                                                     niolinhci liboenig.
Fumily Plnig-ieo(percet of maried oao   Percetage of naried                          Tb PeR-ivro (oer thounand puplatioc) - TV recir-r  for broodonut to gcccral
senof obil-be-ing age (15-hi Yearn  mh. us  birth-cotrol dvoicee                  public Per thousan.d population; coldv nicened TVrecei-eoi cutIs
to all maried o-ne  io can  ag  group,                                               and in y-c-r- ohec rcgictcotic  of TV coizun  in effect.
nesopn  Circulation (per_thousand P!~glnti    - dSoc- tie  vorageni-cuition
FOOD AND 5SITPION                                                                        ofdily geneal ioteren          _oopp *defiard non.peciodicol publication
nIon. of Pane Pr ductbcn per Cincus (1969-71=100i) - Inde  Of per capita               d-eoc  priauily to re..rdiog g-enera  -e.  It io  -onid-ed to be 'dolly"
annalprdution of all foo  -oaditien. Producio -ecde  o-d and                         if it oppe_s nt be_ot four tieno n neek
feed and 10 anclendar year bob.  Coni ite- cvrP,in-rY gonoCnm   nua   tedovpr  aiap fa  - hoped on tie  -utr of ticir~to
(e.g ogacaeioed of saan  caich arecibian  coo sip ntrzents                            cndrn   i   er,icuigueoic  to drie-ic oie-  nod oc-be1
(eg   offee andtea are e..ded. d  Aggregatepouto  of snob county                 ui,
is based c   ntionl  avrage produce tprice annght-t.
Per capit supply of calories (pe~~rcent of cucees)-Computed from        LABOR FORCE
enrgEy  tivalent of oct foci sopplieo nabbabe to country pcr pa.pita             To-ta1lbaho  F-r  (thousands) - Poononically notic  e ocoon, includingare
prd.y. Available capplies  -opri-o dometic prodoctico, nporto I.so               frces and oeeaployed but  celilag to up-i-r, ~ttodent, cct- lefindi-cu
cop-to, and cih-gen is otock. Set -upplico e-lodboic abl feed, crdo,               inca-i-oooutrien  ace cot cempa-bbe,
tuantities used in food pe.cces.ing, and bos-  in dibtribotipo. Sequiec-         PnIc  ber tn _F - Teni  lice fcroc us.percentage of totmb micfoce
_ontoceecotimated by Tic bnod cc physiobogini.. nedo for -ocemol              ~          . eg~2y~,preept(  -lao  furor.be ifarming, furcutrj, bunting and
antivity and health cons.idering encicceenta1 tespe-at-r, body ovighto,            fishtag on perctentge of total labor furo.r
age and sop diotribotions of population, and .1lboing 11 p-eret for              Industry (perocot) - later fore in mining, o...ottrcico,  -cfctu-iug nod
onteatboehobl  Iccci.                                                             cleoteboity, cot"r and . .a T. prc...tac of total 1mice foc.-
Poe capita spply of ppoeb   -ga    per dyc) - Protein ...tcot of per               Participation  nte (Poroent) - total, nip, and feonbe - P-rtlipatic  o
cPitn nt pply fj foci per Ns.et supply of fand is def'ined noativity  -tro are  -oputed no totn1, male, ond fenulc 1lobo  forcaspr
ahoo. deqoir-ecoto for aid   -tunrieo established by USDin proide fcc              - otag- cf total, sole and fomade ppeintiec of nIl agec renpcoticip;
minmu   alaac f 60 gEnus of tntni protein per dy and 20 gus  of                    196i, 1970, and b975 data.  Thcu  are Iw-n participotioc rates erflting
aimal and pulso protein, of  hbiet 10 gram   ninld be aimal protcia.              age-ec  trcur  of ohe popubontion, and bong tioc trend.  A fcc ec,tsut_
Thee stan- d  ae bo..r than th-c  of 75 groa  of totmb protein and               ar  .rm   -abnI soro..
23  eso  f anmlProtein as an averge for tie  -orld, poposcid by PAd              Pz-nnie _pendeceyRPtio - Patio of pepulotio  ucder 15 and d5 and onc  to
in the Third World Pccd dur-y.                                                     the labo  force do Age grop of 05-bt pYero.
Pnr caPita Proein supply fros ania and pulse - Proteic oupply of focd
derived Proaimals and ploe  ic gEsn   Per icy.                                 INCOME DSTPW.PC0d
bhile (ages 1-4)  ortality oa.ts (per thcuosod) - A-.u.I dentin per thcosond         Percentage of Piaeincm   (btht in cash and bind) - RP... ivA by richest
in age group i-4 year, to children in this ago group; for most deveb-                5 percent, eliesi. 20 percet, poorest 00 percent, and ponreot 40 p-e...at
oPiag -oantrico dtcn derired fro  life tbon,                                         of h-ueholdo.
HEALICP                                                                              POVERTYTARiciT GROUPS
Lif pectaE,    tBiri   ras    Averagc nuner of ycare of life                      intimated Absolute P-corty Ioose leccl (US$   rZcpita) - urban an -cra
epana   ibihrti;   t. '190  and 197T7. data.                                  Abac1ute poverty ioMe teed  is thot iscoec level btb1n oich a   ini1
Isfant M"rtuldty date (per cth-ouad) - A-oon  icino of iplnto undoc oce                on   itriocoly adequti    lcpo   oeta  oo-odcecoircsvnooiuo.t
Yea  oag  per tho-nan  live births.                                                   ffocinblc.
Acoen tlo care' Water (neroset of pop tlaio  - totl,urban, and corl                  Estimated Rielativ  P-erty incoe bvel.(US$ per capita) - urban and rurl 
Puebr  of popie 'tctal,' rbas  and coral) pubh rcaibe  -.oes  to                     Pu1 relative povety icoon  beve   toom-third of  -cerge per -npit
-afe mater oupply (inciuden treated  -uface  atero or unt-eted but                   p-oesoa  i-cm  of the  -catry.  bria  level is derived Peon tie  ra1 boo1
unocatsianted cater ou,h an thot fes protected torehoco, apirigo,                    cith  djostneat for higher cos t of living in urban aran.
and sanitar   el)a   eocae   fthI  ep ieppltos  In                                 Eoutetd Popultion Selco Abs.olte Povry.o-               oc (?rcet) - urba  and
an uban  resa pulicfou= in or otandpent boctod ect mere than                   cral.  - Percet of popofltloc (urbat    n   ual   t   v  'aslte  or
200 meters from a house say he o..sideed as bicig sithin reasonable
acess of that hoses,  in  ura  areas reasonble mee-  moulId imply
int,tt   0 .. hsesofe cc  -rmcc  of tie hous.ehold do not hare to spend o                                                   o-cic and Sccio1 Dton Dicipio
disproprtionate part of the cup is fotching the fnnily. snte- heren                                                   bo-ncic Anaiyais and ProJection  Dep-et ...t
August 1979



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Prae 4 of 5
0340   180ECONOMIC DEVElOFlPfET DATA -SdEET
Prclioicory
1970   Actual        Galiratre           P979                 Irojected                  1985             1970175     Gro-th Rates                       As Percent of GDY
190     1957            1977       Rf7W                19918                            9218                            1970/75      1975/78      1979/82      1970         1978         1982
NATIONAL ACCOUINTS                                                                                       Cooctoot 1972 Pricr.s  US$ Milion-
Cross D.e-stic Product                                   36,970.4        18,,510.8       50,969.6        54,436.2        58,791.1        63,670.8        74,705.7        94,956.7             3.6           3.9          8.2      99.8         99.3         01.7
Gatis from  Teres  of Trade                                  91.5           685.5           404.7           389.1         1,102.0         2,799.6         3,378.8         4,518.3            49.5        -17.2          71.7       0.2           0.7         4.3
Gross Domestic I.come                                    37,062.3        49,196.2        51,374.3        54,825.2        59,853.1        66,470.4        78,084.5        99,475.0             5.8           3.7          9.2     100.0        100.0        100.0
Imports                                                   3,851.3         5,883.7         4,318.0         5,608.2         6,867.4         8,285.9        10,458.0        13,847.5             8.8         .1.6         16.9       10.4         10.2         13.4
Epsete (1ip-rt Copocity)                                  3,094.1         4,148.1         4,479.1         5,312.6         6,592.0         8,917.1        10,765.4        13,882.3             6.0           8.6         19.3       8.3          9.7         13.8
Resource Cap                                                757.2         1,735.6            3B.9           295.2           274.8         - 631.2         - 307.4         -  34.8            18.0        -44.6          -          2.0          8.0         _0.4
Conrumption                                              30,650.7        40,404.9        42,036.6        44,287.5        47,276.6        50,885.3        58,684.0        74,943.0             5.7          3.1          7.3       82.7         80.8         75.2
Fixed Inve-tment                                          7,168.7        10,526.9         9,376.6        10,833.0        12,891.3        14,953.9        19,093.1        24,497.2             8.0           1.0        15.2       19.3         19.8         24.5
Gross D...astlo loving.                                   6,411.5         5.791.4         9,337.7        10,537.7        12,616.5        15,085.1        19,408.5        24,532.8             1.5          6.2         i6.5       17.3         19.2         24.8
Groes Nctieonl Sariag                                     5,964.6         0,683.7         8,306.7         9,308.9        11,097.4        153,992.3       1,797.5         22,841.2              5.2          6.6         17.6      16.1         17.0         22.8
TRADE IN 1ODS AND NFS                                                                                   Corrort PcicrS, 505 Millioce
INPORTS, TOTAL                                               3,416.9         8.636.          7,855.0        10,589.7        14,676.7        19,571.5        29,090.3        46,845.1             20.4          7.0         28.7     190.0        100.0        100.0
Food                                                         74.6           443.0           532.0           658.0           756.7         1,170.6         1,739.9         2,801.8            42.8          14.1         27.5       2.2          6.2          6.0
Petroleum  red Pro-uote                                      54.2           291.1           127.0           157.0           189.4           200.0           200.0           322.1            40.0        -18.6           6.2       1.6         1U5           0.7
Other Goods                                               2,223.4         5,879.7         5,261.7         7,398.6        10,523.9        14,031.8        20,953.6        33,742.3             21.5         8.0          29.7      65.1         69.9         72.0
Noe-FPorte  Servlree                                      1,064.7         2,022.9         1,934.3         2,376.1         3,207.7         4,169.1         6,196.8         9,978.9             13.7          5.5         27.1      31.2         22.4          21.3
EXPORTS, TDTAL                                                2,745.4          6,081.7        7,795.1        10 ,036.5       14,089.6        21,062.1        29,945.0        4692.6               17.2         18.2         31.4     100.0        100.8         100.0
Selected Arlicult-rol Goode                                 711.6           932.4         1,439.1         1,600.2         1,888.2         2,265.8         3,221.4         4,934.6             5.6          19.7         19.1      25.9         15.9         10.8
Petroleum and Prodecrt                                       38.4           460.1         1,029.4         1,805.0         3,925.9         8,865.8        12,605.0        20,401.1             64.3         57.7         62.6       1.4         18.0         42.1
3rleoted Min-erle                                           244.3           423.4           444.9           531.9           727.6           873.1         1,241.3         1,901.4            11.6           7.9         23.6       8.9          5.3          4.1
Maofactures                                                 353.5         1,069.3         1,611.0         2,008.9         2,370.5         2,844.6         4,044.3         6,195.1            24.8          23.4         19.1      12.9         20.0          13.5
Other Goods                                                  _              119.3             79.8          120.4           142.1           170.4           242.3           371.2             -             0.3         19.1       -            1 2          0.8
Nor-Porter Services                                       1,392.7         3,077.2         3,190.8         3,970.2         5,035.3         6,042.4         8,590.8        13,159.2            17.1          8.9         21.3       50.9         39 6         28.7
TRADE INDICES
EIport Price ICder                                           91.4          175.6            191.3           203.8           256.6           344.3           405.4           501.5            13.9           5.1        18.8
Imp-rt Prior Index                                          89.7           146.8            173.9           188.8           212.7           236.2           278.2           338.3            10.8          8.7         10.2
Terms of Trade                                             103.0           119.6            510.0           107.9           120.1           145.8           145.7           148.2              3.0         -3.4          7.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                                                                     Cocoteot 1572 Pric-, US$ Million-
PrimoYp                                                   4,139.8         4,484.0         4,769.8         4,946.9         5,045.8         5,146.8         5,354.7         5,682.4             1.6          3.3          2.0       11.2          9.1          7.2
Iermadaoy                                               12,417.1        16,952.3        18,236.7        20,026.7        21,925.8        24,063.5        28,918.1        37,881.0             6.4          5.7           9.6      33.6         36.8         38.7
Tertiary                                                 20,413.5        27,074.5        27,963.2        29,462.5        31,019.5        34,460.5        40,432.9        51,393.3              5.8          2.9          8.2      55.2         54.1         54.1
Ttol (GDP)                                              36,970.4        48,510.8        50,969.6        54,436.2        58,791.1        58,791.1        63,670.8        54,956.7              5.6          3.9          8.2     100.0        100.0        100.0
GONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES
Current Receipts                                          5,455.5         9,108.7        10,278.8        11,716.3        12,660.3        14,165.5        16,642.5        21,257.3            10.6           9.2          9.2      14.7         21.4         21.3
Current Eapsedto-ree                                      3,521.8         8,424.3         8,895.9         9,752.6        10,694.4        11,683.0        13,827.0        02,359.7            16.3           5.4          8.7      10.6         12.8         17.4
PuEllo Ocolsge                                            1,533.7           694.2         1,53B.5         1,964.2         1,956.8         2,482.4         3,015.4         3,897.4           .15.1         42.7          11.3       4.1          3.6           3.9
urr...    Cot Ic -etn-t                                   1,611 7           754.8         1,479.5         2,022.5         2,024.1         2,556.0         3,104.9         3,987.1           -14.2         39.4         11.3        4.3          3.7          4.0
Inv1 etmnat                                               2,277.8         5,052.3         4,387.8         5,007.2         5,508.0         6,334.7         7,664.4         9,525.6            17.1           0.1         L1.3       6.1          9.1           9.8
Defit (Net)                                                666.1         4,297.5         2,908.2         2,984.8         3,484.0         3,778.3         4,559.6         5,938.6            44.9        -11.1          11.2       1.8          5.4          51B
ALLOCATION OF GROSS PUBLIC SECTOR EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                                                                             A8  Percent of Total
Energy                                                                    5,334.9         6,011.3         7,510.2                                                                                          12.0                                30.2
Tr..spert end Cr-enicrtiRrs                                               1,746.9         1,511.9         1,330.4                                                                                         -8.7                                  5.3
SocRio  Welfare                                                           4,211.5         4,628.4         4,881.9                                                                                           5.0                                19.6
Indoetry                                                                  1,635.9         1,464.0         1,376.5                                                                                         -5.6                                  5.5
'A                  Agoiclt-re ond Rural -  rvelopoest                                        1,972.3         1,626.8         1,446.6                                                                                         -9.8                                  5.8
G--erol AdrRnistratioc end Defesse                                        3,282.7         5,190.4         6,554.3                                                                                          25.9                                26.3
Cooseoce                                                                  1,528.0         1,445.2         1,725.2                                                                                           4.1                                  6.9
Turance                                                                      63.0             73.9           51.6                                                                                         .6.4                                  0.2
Total                                                                    L9,795.2        22,451.7        24,884.6                                                                                           7.9                               100.0
SELECTED  INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                                              70/75        75         78/82
ICOR                                                          Z.82             5.31           6.92             2.70            2.49            2.64                                            4.11         6.75       2.9
Import Eloetoilty                                              1.29            5.05           -4. 78           3.55            2.81            2.49                                            1.58        -0.40       2.06
MerSisel Savings RSais                                           -             0.01            o.06            0.31            0.37            0.45                                            0.14         0.23       0.36
Vhlue Added pro Worker (1972 prices)
In  millio.s          Aa 7 of Total        1960-1970                                                7. of AveFace
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORER                             I96     1970        196        1570      Goth Rate             1960           1970              1960           1970          Gorth Rlate
AgoloolturO                                               5.4       5.1        50.5       39.2          -0.6               608.8          939.0             34.7           33.0             4.4
Indu-try                                                  2.1       3.0       19.6        23.1           3.6             2,468.9        4,134.9            140.6          145.0             5.3
SeerRi.e                                                  3.2       4.9       29.9        37.7           4.4             3,222.8        4,044.8            183.6          142.0             2.3
Total                                                    10.7      U3.0       100.0      100.0           2.0             1.755.6        2.847.6            100.0          100.0              5.0



- 24 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE  OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                Page 5 of 5
CUS$ million at current prices)
Actual                          Preliminary Estimates                             Projections
1970           1975           1976            1977               1978                1979           1980            1982           1985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                              2,745.4         6,081.7         6,836.3        7,795.1            10,036.5            14,089.6       21,062.1       29,945.0       46,962.6
Imports (including NFS)                              3,416.9         8,636.7         8,421.7        7,855.0            10,589.7           14,676.7        19,571.5       29,090.3       46,845.1
Resource Balance                                     - 671.5        -2,555.1        -1,585.4        -  59.9             - 553.2            - 587.1         1,490.6          854.7          117.5
Interest, net !/                                     - 307.0        -1,266.5       -1,551.2        -1,811.0           -2,311.8            -3,236.5        -3,738.6       -4,505.1       -5,765.1
Direct Investment Income                             - 267.5         - 657.5         - 666.7        - 401.4             - 477.4            - 572.9         - 687.5        - 907.5       -1,275.0
Workers' Remittances                                   122.7            174.6          239.6          251.0               277.0               332.4          398.9          574.4          807.0
Current Trsnsfers Net                                   55.3           123.4           156.0          168.5               192.3               230.7          276.8          365.4          513.4
Current Account Balance                             -1,068.0        -4,181.2       -3,407.7        -1,852.8           -2,873.1            -3,833.4       -2,259.8        -3,618.1       -5,602.2
Private Direct Investment                              322.8            748.8          626.2          555.9               530.0              636.0           763.2        1,099.0        1,544.0
Public Med. and Long Term Loans, net                   258.6         3,565.8         4,265.5        3,937.3             4,079.0            3,237.4         2,588.3        3,296.4        4,808.8
(Disbursements)                                     (821.3)        4,418.6       (5,417.9)       (6,232.3)          (8,343.3)          (10,142.4)      (8,629.7)      (9,812.4)    (13,299.7)
(Repayments)                                      (-562.7)         (-852.8)    (-1,555.4)    (-2,295.0)            (-4,264.3)          (-6,905.0)    (-6,041.4)    (-6,516.0)    (-8,490.9)
Other Capital                                          588.7             31.7      -1,801.9        -2,136.2           -1,513.4               110.0           132.0          174.2          244.7
(Public Short Term)                                 (139.6)         (842.8)        (879.5)        (-950.0)         (-1,490.2)             (160.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                             (449.1)        (-811.1)    (-2,681.4)    (-1,186.2)               (-23.2)             (-50.0)
Change in Reserves (-= increase)                      -102.1          -165.1           320.9         -504.2              -222.5             -150.0       -1,223.7          -951.5         -995.3
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS                               862.5         4,864.5         6,192.7        8d194.5             9,208.9
IBRD                                                   146.8           310.0           410.0          162.0               554.5
IDA                                                     -               -               -               _                  _
Other Multilateral                                     112.4            121.8          171.72         122.0               152.2
Governments                                             79.8           335.8           318.1          165.6               385.3
Suppliers                                               69.7           156.8           135.7          133.6                97.5
Banks and Financial Institutions                       453.9         3,799.9        4,836.5         6,322.8             7,983.2
Bonds                                                   -              140.3           321.3        1,288.5                36.4
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                                        EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                3,316.7        11,809.6        16,607.6       20,381.2            26,970.4                                 Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)
Interest on Public Debt                                222.1           855.0        1,138.6         1,388.2            1,853.1
Repayment on Public Debt                               479.8           799.6        1,264.3         2,463.3            4,675,7                                   $Millions         Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                                -               -               -               -                  -               Public M & L.T.
Total Debt Service (net)                               701.9         1,654.6         2,402.9        3,851.5             6,528.8                 Loans
Burden on Export Earnings 2/ (2)
a.  Public Debt Service                               24.5            26.4           34.0            47.9               63.3             IBRD                  1,480.9             5.5
b.  Total Debt Service                                24.5            26.4            34.0           47.9               63.3             Other Multilateral    883.9               3.3
c.  Total Debt Service and Direct                                                                                                        Governments           1,123.0             4.2
Investment Income                     33.8             37.0           43.4           52.9                67.9            Suppliers                635.3             2.4
Average TermDsof Public Debt                                                                                                               Bonds                 2,698.8              0.0
a.  Interest as % of prior year's D.O. and D           7.4            10.2             9.6            8.4                 9.1            Other Financial
b.  Amortization as % of prior year's                                                                                                       Institutions    20,148.4              74.7
D.O. and D                           ;6.1              9.5           ;0.7           14.8                22.9            Total                26,970.4            100.0
i3BRD ExpoOsure
a.  IBRD D00. and D. as % of Public D.O. and D   17.5                  9.5             7.4            6.7                 5.5
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of Public
Debt Service                          7.7              7.0            5.5             3.9                2.8
IDA Exposure
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of December 31, 1979)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
36 loans fully disbursed                        1,710.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                     Water Supply            90.0       34.7
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                   90.0       28.7
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             47.0        34.1
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0         6.5
1053      1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        40.3
1110      1975  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         110.0        14.0
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             50.0        45.6
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry               50.0         6.7
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply           40.0        31.3
1205      1976  NAFINSA                     Industry               50.0         6.6
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0        59.6
1420      1977  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 42.0       38.3
1462      1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        85.4
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 50.0       31.9
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               47.0        41.7
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture            56.0        55.2
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development        16.5       15.8
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               100.0       70.9
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0         97.5
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             25.0        14.4
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.      60.0        60.0
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0      120.0
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry               80.0        75.8
1706      1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                     Industry               175.0      175.0
TOTAL                                            3,595.9 1/ 1,282.0
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                583.4
Total now outstanding                            3,012.5
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        90.0                  2.3
Total now held by Bank 1/                        3,010.2
Total Undisbursed                                            1,282.0
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
3.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                               US$ Million
Year          Obligor                    Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/           Industrial Equipment       0.8      --     0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                   A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
19651      Acero Solar, S.A. 1/         Twist Drills               0.3     --      0.3
19152/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68      Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.           Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/            Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                   Sodium Sulphate            0.7      --     0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                      Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
L970       Minera del Norte, S.A,       Iron Ore Mining            1.5     --      1.5
1-971      Celanese Mexicana, S.A.    Textiles                    12.0     --    12.0
1.972      Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                      Pulp and Paper              2/       2/     2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz             Cement                    15.9     --    15.9
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel         Tourism                    1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78    Mexinox, S.A.                Steel                     12.0     3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.    Pulp and Paper               9.0     2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                      Petrochemicals            19.0      --    19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/            Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.              Tourism                             2.3    2.3
1979       Conductors Moneterrey S.A. Wire and Cable              18.0     --    18.0
1980       Industria Resistol S.A.    Particleboard               25.0     --    25.0
Total Gross Commitments                              218.9    31.9  250.8
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                                         167.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                    83.0
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Loan of US$100 million, of which US$85 million has been sold to
participants.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by early 1980. The Executive Directors
have agreed to amend the Project Description to include new works
which would serve the same objective of increasing bulk water
supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307).
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date:  May 29, 1974.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1 Rio Panuco Irrigation Project; $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Lrn. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at-
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is
underway to adjust for these delays. The closing date will be
extended accordingly.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule. After an in-depth
mid-term evaluation in early 1979, project implementation is
being strengthened. PIDER management is taking steps to ensure
proper operation and maintenance of earlier PIDER investments.
Emphasis is also being given to improved cost recovery, invest-
ment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural industries.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; st equently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity, and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer ProJect:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
Plant construction is now progressing satisfactorily. However,
due to previous problems in local financing and with contractors,
completion is expected to be delayed by about 14 months. The
Bajio and Pajaritos urea plants are to start production in
the first quarter 1980 and the Parathion plant shortly there-
after. Project costs are now estimated at 35 percent above
budget, mainly due to increases in equipment and civil works
costs.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities, where
construction has begun. Three additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
on schedule.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to partial cancellations in some subprojects, $4.2 million
are available for further commitment.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
In. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project has had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabilization
period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing in
1977, continued to rise in 1978, and 1979. As a result, the
operating and working ratios improved significantly. The
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which new financial targets and a revised list of goods have
been prepared and accepted by the Bank. Due to delays incurred
in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in late 1980, about
two years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
Project implementation is slightly behind schedule. An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism and the economic study of tourism have
been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. It is expected that 50 more
will be trained during 1980.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the Bank;
the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. After initial
delays in project execution, project authorities are making
excellent progress in the agricultural development program of
each pilot project. The applied research programs are proceed-
ing on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects
of this project has been good, though disbursements are behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. FONEI has committed US$85.1 million of the Bank loan
to date.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Several livestock projects have been approved by the Bank.
Submission of irrigation and drainage subprojects has been
delayed. The Government is now accelerating sub-project prepa-
ration to avoid furter slippage.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of initial budget cuts.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: Octobr 31, 1982.
Procurement is in progress. Site clearance and construction
started in February 1979.  Basic engineering has been largely
completed.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Commitments amount to $23.1 million.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: about 18 months
(b) Project prepared by: SEPAFIN, CFM, FM and CRM
(c) First Bank mission: May 1978
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: September 1979
(e) Negotiations completed in: February 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Operating Guidelines satisfactory to the Bank to be
formally adopted by CFM and FM as a condition of
effectiveness (paragraph 54);
(b) Interest rate charges on peso denominated loans to be 1.5 to
2.0 percentage points above the average cost of funds to
financieras and investment banking departments of multipurpose
banks (ACF) (paragraph 56);
(c) Interest rate charges on US dollar denominated loans would be
at least one percentage point above LIBOR (paragraph 57); and
(d) Equipment leasing fees and charges by regional ore beneficiation
plants would be sufficient to cover a cost of capital comparable to
the above interest charges, capital amortization and in the case of
regional beneficiation plans full operating and maintenance costs
(paragraph 58).






______ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ ___IBRD ER 11477
.2~~~~~~~~~          -W RY             W
20~ ~~~~~~
j   q ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ 
02*2- 
L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~.~~D
El' ~   ~      2)8
3$~~~M
(202 ~ ~     01
/            0                                                      2~~~~~~~~0 L
2  2     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-;F7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8'                                               2
2                2~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
2  J                                   2      2           2      22             )~~~~~~~~~~~~Mi



