Document of               FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 276Ub-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PRO;
February 25, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso (Mex$)
US$1 = Mex$22.6 1/
Mex$1 = US$0.44
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ACF        -    Index of Average Cost of Funds to Financieras
CFM        -    Comision de Fomento Minero
CRM        -    Consejo de Recursos Minerales
EDI        -    Economic Development Institute
ERR        -    Economic Rate of Return
FIRA       -    Fondo Instituido en Relacion con la Agricultura
FMNM       -    Fideicomiso Minerales no Metalicos Mexicanos
FOGAIN     -    Fondo de Garantia y Fomento a la Industria Mediana y
Pequena
IDD        -    Index of Dollar Deposit Interest Rates
IFC        -    International Finance Corporation
IFRR       -    Internal Financial Rate of Return
NAFINSA    -    Nacional Financiera, S.A.
PECAM      -    Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la
Pequena y Mediana Mineria (Special Complementary
Program for Small and Medium-Scale Mining)
PEMEX      -    Petroleos Mexicanos, S.A.
PIDER      -    Programa de Inversiones Publicas para el Desarrollo Rural
SEPAFIN    -    Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial
SMM        -    Small and Medium Scale Mining
SPP        -    Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
'Program' or 'Special Program' refers to the Special Complementary Program
for Small and Medium Scale Mining Development (PECAM)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   The Mexican peso has been floating since September 1, 1976.  The exchange
rate for US$1 over the past two years has been fluctuating between
Mex$22.50 and Mex$22.80. The peso was traded at about Mex$22.60 to
US$1 in February 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE MINING SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING .... .....    1
Sectoral Setting ............................................    1
Sectoral Structure and the Special Mining Census ....          ........    2
Small and Medium Size Mining ................................    3
Mining Sector Policies and Legislation ......................    4
Mining Concessions ..........................................    5
Overall Potential and Development Constraints ....           ...........    6
Environmental Considerations ................................    7
Mine Safety and Labor Legislation ...........................    8
Financial and Technical Assistance for SMM ....           ..............    8
Interest Rate Systems .......................................    9
tl. INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING THE SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING
SECTOR ....  10
A.    Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM)         .       .10
Background and Objectives    .               .10
Organization, Management and Staffing    .          .11
Operations   ..12
Project Evaluation, Approval and Supervision  . .18
Credit and Promotion Policies and Strategy  .         .19
Portfolio Quality    ..20
Statement of Operating Policies and Strategy  . .21
Accounting, Control and Auditing         .       .21
Financial Position, Resources and Projections . .21
Procurement and Disbursement   .              .22
B.    Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FMNM)               22
Background and Objectives    .               .22
Organization, Management and Staffing    .          .23
Operations   ..24
Overall Portfolio Quality    .               .26
Project Evaluation, Approval and Supervision  . .27
Financial Position and Resources         .       .27
Accounting and. Auditing    ..28
Procurement and Disbursement   .              .28
Operating Policies and Strategy   .              .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
C.    Consejo de Recursos Minerals (CRM) ....     ...............   29
Background and Objectives ............................   29
Organization and Staffing ............................   30
Operations ..........     .................................   30
Project Evaluation ...................................   32
Future Operating Strategy ............................   32
Financial Position and Resources .....     ................   33
Procurement and Auditing .............................   33
III. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN .33
Background and Objectives of the Project .33
Project Description .34
Eligible Enterprises .35
Maximum Size and Terms of Financing .36
Onlending Interest Rates and Leasing Terms .37
Institutional Arrangements and Program Coordination .37
Projected Overall Needs and Financing .38
The Proposed Bank Loan .38
Disbursement .39
Retroactive Financing .40
Channeling of the Resource, and Repayment and Capitalization
Arrangements .40
Procurement and Auditing .40
Approval Limits .41
Project Benefits and Risks .42
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS .43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in September 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. K. Challa, C. Joseph,
N. Santiago, (LCPI2); W. Hill and B. Zinman (Consultants).



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
Annex 2    Chronology of Mexican Mining History
Annex 3    Operating Guidelines of the Comision de Fomento Minero
in Relation to the Special Program (Draft)
Annex 4    Operating Guidelines of the Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos
Mexicanos in Relation to the Special Program (Draft)
Annex 5    Operating Regulations of the Coordinating Committee of the
Special Program
Annex 6    Variable Interest Rates and the ACF Index
Annex 7    Index of Dollar Deposit Interest Rates
Annex 8    System for Periodic Adjustment of Maximum Size Limit for
Eligible SMM Enterprises
Annex 9    International reference prices for Mexico's
main minerals
Annex 10   Organization Chart of the Comision de Fomento Minero
Annex 11   Organization Chart of the Fideicomiso Minerales No
Metalicos Mexicanos
Annex 12   Organization Chart of the Consejo de Recursos Minerales
Annex 13   Organization Chart of the Subsecretariat of Mines and Energy
Annex 14   Supplementary Tables and Charts
T-1:   Evolution of Production from the Mining Sector, 1965-78
T-2:   Production, Exports and Imports of Metallic Minerals (1978)
T-3:   Production, Exports and Imports of Non-Metallic Minerals (1978)
T-4:   Distribution of Mining Production by Enterprise Size (1978)
T-5:   Share of Small and Medium Scale Mining (SMM) in the Production
of Various Minerals (1978)
T-6:   CFM - Summary of Past and Projected Approvals of Financing to
Small and Medium Scale Mining, 1975-82
T-7:   CFM - Summary of Existing and Projected Regional Beneficiation
Plants
T-8:   CFM - Equity Participation in Subsidiaries and Affiliates (1978-79)
T-9:   CFM - Technical Assistance Provided to Mines and Concentration
Plants, 1977-79
T-10:  CFM - Analysis of Financial Assistance Operations Outstanding
for Small and Medium Scale Mining Enterprises
T-ll:  CFM - Size Structure of Fixed Asset Credits and Long-term
Equipment Leasing Operations (as of December 31, 1978)
T-12:  CFM - Analysis of Arrears and Reschedulings in Loan Portfolio
as of June 30, 1979
T-13:  CFM - Past and Projected Balance Sheets, 1978-82
T-14:  CFM - Audited Income Statements, 1977-78
T-15:  FMNM - Summary of Past and Project Financing to SMM, 1976-82
T-16:  FMNM - Summary of Existing and Projected Regional Beneficiation
Plants



- iv -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
T-17: FMNM - Equity Participation in Subsidiaries (as of June 30, 1979)
T-18:  FMNM - Analysis of Approvals of Fixed Assets and Working Capital
Credit, 1976-79
T-19:  FMNM - Analysis of Arrears and Reschedulings in Credit Portfolio
as of June 30, 1979
T-20:  FMNM - Analysis of Arrears and Reschedulings in Consolidated
Credit Portfolio as of June 30, 1979
T-21:  FMNM - Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1977-82
T-22:  FMNM - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1977-82
T-23:  Estimated Distribution of Commitments of Resources by Program
Component and by Year
C-1:   Map of Mexico showing Existing and Proposed Locations of CFM's
and FNNI's Regional Beneficiation Plants and Offices
Annex 15    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



I. THE MINING SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING
Sectoral Setting
1.01      Mining has traditionally exerted a dominant influence on the
Mexican economy. Until the late 1920s, Mexico's mining sector had been one
of the more dynamic sectors of the economy and a major contributor to the
country's exports. Since then, the sector has gradually lost its dynamism,
mainly because of the widely fluctuating international prices of minerals and
inadequate domestic policies to spur sector development in general and Mexican
participation in particular. This scenario was reflected in a slow growth of
the mining output, causing the share of mining in total GDP to decrease from
about 4% in the 1930s to only 1.4% in the 1970s (Annex 14, T-1). 1/
1.02      Mexico's liberal policies prior to the 1960's permitted foreign
corporations to participate actively in the mining sector, where they assumed
a leading role. Starting in 1961 the government embarked on a program of
"Mexicanization" of mines, which created an uncertain climate in the mining
sector and led to the withdrawal of a substantial number of foreign mining
interests. On the other hand, the positive effects of Mexicanization antici-
pated by the government in mining exploration and investment were very slow
to develop because the new owners had only limited experience in managing the
mines and because of inadequate domestic policies and incentives. Moreover,
past mining legislation and incentives, which were designed at a time of
majority foreign ownership, were also inadequate to stimulate investments
and it was not until 1975, through a new mining law, that the stage was set
for a healthy growth in the mining sector. 2/
1.03      At present, there are about 15,000 mining operations in Mexico,
distributed widely among nearly all of Mexico's 32 states and providing direct
employment for about 150,000 people. The total value of Mexico's mineral
production was about Mex$24,200 million (about US$1.1 billion equivalent) in
1978, distributed among nearly 50 minerals. In recent years, metallic minerals
accounted for about 77% of the total production of the mining sector. Mexico
currently occupies the first position in world production for silver, fluorspar
(fluorite) and graphite; it is among the world's top five producers of lead,
zinc, mercury, sulfur, barite, bismuth, arsenic and antimony. The equivalent
of 48% of Mexico's mineral production in 1978 was exported, accounting for a
net positive impact of about US$510 milllion in the balance of payments. 3/
Exports in order of importance were: silver, zinc, sulfur, lead, fluorspar,
salt, manganese, iron, chalk, copper and cobalt, which together accounted for
more than 95% of total mineral exports. Annex 14, T-2 and T-3 present a more
detailed view of Mexico's production, imports and exports of metallic and
non-metallic minerals.
1/ All statistics and analyses of the mining sector presented in the report
exclude figures for petroleum and related hydrocarbons.
2/   Annex 2 includes a brief chronology of Mexican mining history.
3/   The export figures should be viewed only as indicative because the export
and import statistics of minerals also record processed minerals, which
may be imported in one form and exported in another.



- 2 -
1.04      The long period of foreign predominance in the mining sector and the
subsequent "Mexicanization" program left Mexico with only limited engineering
and scientific capabilities in the sector. In particular, as a result of the
rapid and substantial outflow of expatriate mining personnel, Mexico fell
acutely short of qualified personnel experienced in exploration, operation and
management of mines. In recent years, the number of universities offering
courses in mining and geology has increased significantly and the requirements
for younger technical personnel can be expected to be filled satisfactorily in
the near future. However, sufficient numbers of experienced upper and middle
level staff would be needed to provide the required guidance to the younger
personnel; these requirements would have to be partially met, in the short term,
from external sources.
Sectoral Structure and the Special Mining Census
1.05      Only limited information is available on the total number and size
distribution of operating mines for each mineral, and their operating and
economic characteristics for different size categories. Reliable data is
especially scarce on the small and medium size enterprises. Based on the
1975 industrial census and the operating statistics of the larger individual
mining enterprises, the following important conclusions can be drawn.
1.06      Except for two large copper mines and mining for coal and iron ore,
Mexico is essentially a country of small and medium-sized mines. In this
connection the distinction between the size of the mining company and of the
operating unit is important. Thus, while there are 15 "large" companies in
Mexico (Annex 14, T-4), there are few large mines. Much of the output of even
the large mining companies comes from a number of medium- and small-sized
mines, and almost all the large companies started as small mining operations.
This situation appears to reflect particular geological as well as economic
factors, since the relative abundance of low cost labor and the high grades of
ores enables smaller mines to compete effectively with the more capital-inten-
sive larger mining operations. This is illustrated by the production figures of
individual "large" and medium-size mining enterprises presented in Annex 14, T-4.
1.07      The larger mining enterprises or groups generally operate a group
of individual mines to feed their concentrators, which can thus be operated
economically. Partly reflecting the impact of the above, ownership of produc-
tive mines is highly concentrated in Mexico. In the case of most minerals,
the five companies producing the largest quantities of the specific minerals
account for more than 50% of total production of those minerals. 1/
1.08      In order to correct the existing dearth of adequate information on
the physical, economic and other characteristics of Mexican mines and related
enterprises, the Subsecretariat of Mines and Energy of the Ministry of
National Patrimony and Industrial Development (SEPAFIN), 2/ in collaboration
1/  There are at present 30-40 mining companies which are fully or partly
state owned, mostly through Comision de Fomento Minero, which acts as the
state holding company (para. 2.07). These companies together account
for about 35% of the total mineral production, and mostly include large-
or medium-size enterprises.
2/   An indicative organization chart of the Subsecretariat of Mines and
Energy is included in Annex 13.



with the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting (SPP), is carrying out a spe-
cial mining census of all operating mines, beneficiation plants and smelters/
refineries in Mexico. The census, entitled "Censo Extraordinario de Mineria -
1979," was started in late September 1979. It is being carried out through
the 31 regional offices of the Directorate of Mines of SEPAFIN, and should
provide useful data on the economic and operating characteristics of the
mining operations. Some preliminary results are expected by early 1980 and
the full census and its analysis by mid-1980.
Small and Medium Size Mining
1.09      There is no single definition for "small" or "medium" scale mining
enterprises that is uniformly used in Mexico. Considering the natural
divisions apparent in the size structure of the Mexican mining sector and the
relevance of physical as well as the financial characteristics of mining
enterprises in determining the target group of enterprises and the nature of
assistance needed by them, the following definition based on the annual value
and physical capacity of the production is proposed for operational and
monitoring purposes:
-    Small mining enterprises would be those whose annual production
value does not exceed Mex$20 million, 1/ provided that the
physical capacity of their beneficiation facilities does not
exceed 100 tons of crude mineral per day in the case of metallic
minerals and 150 tons per day in the case of non-metallic minerals. 2/
-    Medium scale mining enterprises would be those whose annual
production value does not exceed Mex$150 million, provided that
the physical capacity of the beneficiation plants does not
exceed 500 tons per day of crude mineral in the case of metallic
minerals and 800 tons per day in the case of non-metallic minerals. 3/
The above annual values of production use 1979 mineral prices as a basis,
and would be adjusted periodically to take account of variations in the
international price of a selected basket of minerals (para. 3.06 and Annex 8
contain details of the adjustment scheme).
1.10      Based on information available on the structure of the mining
sector in Mexico and a mission survey of a representative sample of mining
enterprises in Mexico, small- and medium-sized mining enterprises defined as
above account for nearly one quarter of the value of Mexico's total mining
1/   This is also the limit prescribed on the value of annual production for
defining small mining enterprises under the Mexican mining tax law.
2/   A higher limit on the physical capacity is used for non-metallic minerals
as they generally tend to be high volume, low value minerals.
3/   For the purpose of the proposed Bank project these definitions would be
employed for individual enterprises as well as for groups of related
enterprises (para. 3.07).



-4-
production and more than 95% of the total number of operating mines. SMM
enterprises are also relatively labor intensive; average capital investment
cost of most small mining enterprises under the proposed definition is likely
to be in the range US$2,000-8,000 equivalent (in 1979 US dollars) per full-
time job, and that for medium mining enterprises in the range of $8,000-20,000
equivalent. 1/
Mining Sector Policies and Legislation
1.11      Under previous mining legislation, which created uncertainties
about the duration of concessions and provided inadequate incentives, mining
exploration and investment lagged.  Moreover, as a result of the uncertainties,
and the prospect of increasing public sector participation, mineral deposits
found by the larger private operators were often not fully disclosed. The
vast number of small mine operators had neither the means nor the know-how to
establish systematically the proven reserves of the deposits they exploit. In
recognition of these shortcomings, a new Mining Law was enacted in 1975 and
the tax policies for the mining sector were reformed subsequently.
1.12      The Mining Law of 1975 and the corresponding implementing regu-
lations 2/ created a new legal framework and provided for important reforms
of the mining sector. This law clearly defines the responsibilities of the
various agencies involved in the mining sector. It also specifies regula-
tions governing exploration, processing and trading in all solid minerals of
commercial value or application, except salt and surface minerals such as sand-
stone and gravel obtained by quarrying operations (and used in the constructing
industry), which under the Law are not considered mines. It entrusts the
application of the Law and supervision of compliance to the Directorate General
of Mining in SEPAFIN which, through its branches, maintains the Public Mining
Registry, 2/ grants and withdraws concessions and inspects mines and processing
plants.
1.13      The Law establishes Mexican majority ownership of all mining,
mineral processing and trading, and provides for close monitoring of explora-
tion and investment programs submitted as a basis for granting concessions.
The latter provision is intended as a safeguard against past undesirable
experience, by which small concession holders could block the consolidation
of mining in a continuous formation and where speculators could obtain con-
cessions and hold them without any investment for future sale. In addition,
there are discretionary powers for the government, such as declaring certain
1/   In comparison, the median investment cost per job of large-scale mining
operation is of the order of US$100,000 equivalent per job.
2/   The Registry records mining and processing concessions, assignments,
national and industrial mining reserves, expropriations, temporary
occupations and easements applicable to Mexican firms and individuals.



-5-
zones to be state mining reserves, 1/ as well as applying and interpreting
provisions for the granting and revocation of concessions.
1.14      A new mining tax law was promulgated in late 1977.  It simplifies
and streamlines the tax structure, which had been unduly complex, consisting
of up to five different types of taxes. Under the new law, the production tax
is specified to be a flat rate, based on ex-smelter market value, of 9% for
gold, silver and sulphur, 4% for coal, iron and manganese, and 7% for all
other minerals. The law also allows enterprises with annual sales of up to
Mex$20 million a reduction of 1% in their production tax rate as a special
incentive for small- and medium-scale mining development. Other provisions
of the tax law include an additional tax credit of up to 2% in the production
tax rate based on the market value for re-investment in exploration or develop-
ment, and exemptions from import taxes on equipment for mining operations.
Mining enterprises are subject to the same income taxes as any other business
activity.
1.15      These legislative measures represent a considerable improvement
over the previous legislation, by increasing financial incentives for mineral
exploration and exploitation, and reducing significantly the cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures and uncertainties which were associated with the 1961
Mexicanization Law. Most mining sector representatives believe that these
measures are likely to have a significant positive effect on the sector's
growth over the next several years.
Mining Concessions
1.16      Concessions for underground deposits can be claimed anywhere in
Mexico but require the specific authorization of SEPAFIN, whereas surface
deposits (most of which are non-metallic) belong to the owner of the land.
Although minerals in the ground belong to the state, the concession rights
are transferable either by sale or by royalty of 2-1/2 to 3% on the production
value for between 5 and 10 years. In the case of ejidos, ownership of the
mining concession is not transferable and the rights can be transferred only
through royalty payments. In addition, ejidos are to be paid fees equivalent
to 10% of the production tax in exchange for the rights to use surface land
in the case of open pit operations. The concessions are of two types: for
exploration or for exploitation. Exploration concessions are granted for
six months at a time but are renewable, up to a total of 3 years. 2/ In
order to obtain a concession for exploitation, the miner must have formerly
held an exploration concession. If the exploration work program, which
must have the prior authorization of (and is monitored by) SEPAFIN, yields
1/   Large deposits of iron ore, coal, sulphur, phosphate, flourspar and potash
are automatically classified as National Mining Reserves. Iron ore and
coal are to be exploited only by the state or at least with state participa-
tion. Exploration and exploitation of radioactive substances are governed
by the Organic Law of the National Institute of Nuclear Energy.
2/   An individual exploration concession can be granted for areas of up to
50,000 ha and can cover up to eight minerals.



- 6 -
favorable results within the 3-year period, the miner has the option of
requesting conversion of the claim into an exploitation concession. If not,
it may be reduced in size and renewed as a new exploration concession.
Mining exploitation concessions are granted for a duration of 25 years
(renewable for another 25) and have to follow the authorized work program.
1.17      The law makes special provision to exempt mining enterprises whose
exploration concession does not exceed 20 hectares from the requirement to
present an exploration work program, and to allow such enterprises to start
exploiting part of their reserves as the exploration program proceeds. This
is important since it allows the small mining operations to self-finance
exploration work.
1.18      In the case of metallic minerals, prices are linked to the interna-
tional markets. These minerals are sold in concentrated form to one of the
privately or government-controlled smelters. Government policy since 1978 has
been to use prices quoted in one of the world-wide metals exchanges (such as
the London Metals Exchange) or a standard international source such as Metals
Week, for the purpose of calculating ex-smelter prices (that is, net of
smelter tolling fees) to enterprises providing the mineral concentrates. 1/
1.19      In the case of non-metallic minerals, prices are fixed based on
the regional demand-supply relationship and transportation costs. The
government publishes official prices for most important non-metallic minerals
(to avoid excessive price variations) that are not always directly comparable
to international prices due to differences in quality and transportation
costs. Wherever comparable international prices are readily available (e.g.,
barite and fluorspar), however, domestic prices have tended to be somewhat
below international prices due to the fact that Mexico is a leading producer
of these minerals.
Overall Potential and Development Constraints
1.20      Mexico is endowed with substantial mineral resources; about 1.8
million sq. km., or 90% of Mexico's territory, show geological anomalies indi-
cating mineral potential. On the other hand, during the entire history of
mining in Mexico since pre-Columbian times, no more than 12,000 sq. km. have
been used or designated as mining areas. Even if one assumes that the latter
areas contain most of the easily accessible minerals, the mineral resource
endowment of Mexico, particularly in its traditional metallic ores of gold,
silver, lead, zinc and copper--appears to be very large. The resources are
distributed among a wide range of minerals and geographical areas. Moreover,
the likelihood of finding and blocking out new deposits greatly improved over
the last few years as a result of legislative and tax reforms.
1.21      Mexico's long history of mining left the country with numerous
old mines abandoned for a variety of reasons, including insufficiently sophis-
ticated mining technology to make the best use of resources, unavailability of
1/   Annex 9 lists reference prices applicable in Mexico for the most
important metals.



-7-
beneficiation and concentration technology to handle poorer ores of less than
adequate shipping grade, past declines in world market prices making mining
unprofitable, and disruptions in the mining sector following the 1910 revolu-
tion. With the recent favorable price trends for some significant minerals
produced by Mexico, improvements in mining and concentration technology, reduc-
tions in mining tax rates and the impetus of the government's program to support
SMM development, increasing numbers of small and medium-size enterprises have
re-entered the field or have taken measures to expand operations and explore for
new deposits.
1.22      There is ample evidence that with the required financial and com-
plementary technical support, large number of SMM enterprises would be able
to operate efficiently and develop on an economically viable basis an im-
portant part of Mexico's mining resources, whose exploration and development
has received inadequate attention in the past. Since small and medium-sized
mines are distributed over a wide geographical area, the development would
also have a favorable impact on Mexico's regional development. The basic
institutional structure required to develop the potential of SMM enterprises
already exists in Mexico, although some strengthening of individual institu-
tions is needed. Recognizing these elements, the government has placed high
priority on development of the SMM sector.
1.23      The main constraints currently limiting the development of SMM
enterprises are: (i) inadequate basic geological work and exploration because
small mining enterprises generally have little capability to undertake system-
atic exploratory activity on their own; (ii) deficiencies in technical and
administrative capabilities of SMM enterprises, including inadequate experi-
ence in planning mining activities, (iii) difficulties in obtaining financing
because the smaller enterprises have neither a well-established credit records,
adequate physical loan collateral, nor sufficient experience in presenting
"bankable" projects; (iv) lack of mineral concentration facilities, requiring
many small mining enterprises to transport crude minerals at substantial costs
and over long distances to the plants of larger mining enterprises; and
(v) limitations in the project preparation and evaluation capabilities of
supporting institutions resulting from scarcity of professionals trained in
promoting, preparing and evaluating bankable project proposals.
Environmental Considerations
1.24      While the mining enterprises are obliged to operate subject to
federal environmental standards, SMM enterprises generally have little problem
in complying with the law. Chemical effluents or toxic vapors are almost
non-existent in SMM operations. In processing ores, the beneficiation plants
mainly use neutral materials (such as sand) with little harmful content, with
the exception of sodium cyanide in gold-silver beneficiation plants. 1/ Tech-
niques for containment of reject sand from beneficiation plants is well advanced
in Mexico.
1/   Even this substance is rendered relatively harmless since it decomposes
and oxidizes rapidly in sunlight prior to being discharged.



- 8-
Miae Safety and Labor Legislation
1.25      Mine safety regulations are included in Article 89 of the Mexican
Constitution and enforced by the Director General of Mines. In general,
safety in the SMM enterprises which usually work narrow veins is not as dif-
ficult a problem as in larger mines which have sizeable ore bodies and have
problems related to explosive gases, ground support, and highly mechanized
systems. Small mines, which are normally vertical in structure, are usually
adequately ventilated by convection. Mine safety is also provided for in the
contracts between the Syndicate of Mine Workers and incorporated mining enter-
prises. A union representative, who is frequently a member of the board of
companies, usually cooperates with the company to ensure careful monitoring
of safety standards. Labor legislation is applicable to all industries,
including mining operations. Mine owners are required to comply with inspec-
tions by the Labor Department which are carried out routinely.
Financial and Technical Assistance for SMM
1.26      Mexico has a well-developed banking system, comprising more than
200 public, private and mixed-ownership institutions. Most large mining
enterprises in Mexico are able to cover their working capital as well as term
financing needs through credits from the domestic and foreign banks and intern-
ally generated funds.  SMM enterprises, however, have far less access to the
formal banking system, particularly for term credit.  The large growth of the
Mexican industrial and commercial sectors in recent years has provided the
banks with substantial growth opportunities for their lending operations,
without having to undertake the difficult tasks of technical assessment of
ore reserves involved in lending to small mines. In cases in which sufficient
mineral reserves have been proven and reasonable physical collaterals are
available, some medium-sized mining enterprises have been able to obtain short-
term financing for working capital needs. However, given the generally limited
familiarity with the mining sector among the banks, the frequent lack of bankable
physical collateral and of sophistication of small miners, banking credit to
medium and particularly small mining enterprises has been extremely limited.
1.27      The lack of access of SMM enterprises to financing from the
banking system is alleviated by three state-owned financing and technical
assistance institutions serving the mining sector, namely, the Consejo de
Recursos Minerales (CGRM), the Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM), and the
Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FMNM).  The three institutions
operate with a high degree of autonomy but are formally responsible to
SEPAFIN, with the heads of the three institutions reporting directly to the
Subsecretary of Mines and Energy (Annex 13). CRM concentrates on carrying out
and coordinating geological investigations, advising the government on policy
matters concerning geology, exploration and exploitation of mineral resources,
and assistihg mining enterprises in the exploration and evaluation of specific
mineral prospects. For the latter purpose, CRM contributes by financing SMM
enterprises or individual mine operators through a special type of financing
involving risk-sharing. It also provides technical assistance and consulting
serN-ices, i          aueAng laborato-r-y analy-jsis to ev7aluate minerals and advice on
exploration methods. CFM serves as a holding company for state participations



- 9 -
in mining or mineral-related companies and as an executing agency for develop-
ment of large-scale mining projects in the public sector. CFM also provides
financial and technical assistance in support of exploitation of known metal
deposits by SMM enterprises. It has also been operating on a "maquila"
(tolling) basis, several regional beneficiation plants (plants for concentra-
tion and other processing of minerals), in order to enable small mining enter-
prises that cannot afford their own mineral concentration units to process and
market their minerals on a financially viable basis. FMNM was established to
stimulate exploration, exploitation and marketing of non-metallic minerals, in
view of their distinctive characteristics compared to the metallic materials
(para. 2.43). Since non-metallic minerals are often found in surface and
sub-surface deposits in "ejido" land, FMNM's operations also facilitate the
flow of economic benefits and generation of employment among the "ejidatarios" 1/
by opening the ejido land for exploration and exploitation of non-metallic
minerals. Like CFM, FMNM provides financial and technical assistance to SMM
enterprises and also holds substantial equity participation in several (cur-
rently five) subsidiaries that were created at FMNM's initiative as part of
its non-metallic minerals development program.
1.28      The financial assistance offered by CFM and FMNM to SMM enter-
prises takes several forms, including: fixed asset loans ("refaccionarios") to
finance on medium term the cost of mining equipment or mineral beneficiation
facilities; short-term loans for working capital; long-term leasing, with the
option for the client company to purchase mining or concentration equipment
and machinery; and small amounts of other forms of short-term or risk capital
financing.
1.29      While CFM, FMNM and CRM are playing a valuable role in providing
assistance to a limited number of SMM enterprises, the assistance being pro-
vided by these institutions to SMM has been falling considerably short of
the needs, as a result of budget constraints, the lack of adequate focus
towards SMM in their efforts and the limited experience of these institutions
in providing an integrated support to SMM. This is particularly true in view
of the substantially increased potential for the growth of economically viable
SMM operations made possible, in part, by the favorable mining and fiscal
legislation recently promulgated. Any effective and broad-based effort aimed
at the development of SMM in Mexico would require a strengthening of the
capabilities of CFM, FMNM and CRM to provide financial and technical assistance
to SMM enterprises as well as additional resources. The government is under-
taking such an effort thorugh the Special Program for SMM Development and has
approached the Bank to help finance the project.
Interest Rate Systems
1.30      Since 1974, financial institutions in Mexico have been adopting
increasingly a variable interest rate system for term lending operations. The
monetary authorities encouraged the development of this system in response to
1/   Ejidatarios are the members of land-owning cooperatives called "ejidos,"
which were created under the Mexican agrarian reform law to help the
landless peasants. Each ejido owns and manages on a group basis a tract
of land (which may or may not be immediately cultivable) assigned to
the communi ty by the gorvernment.



- 10 -
the uncertainties created by the high and fluctuating rates of inflation. By
1977, practically all term loans in Mexico (including Bank industrial credit
operations through FONEI) were made at variable interest rates, using as an
index the average cost of funds (ACF) to investment banking departments of
intermediaries (Annex 6). 1/ The ACF is a weighted average of interest rates
paid on bonds, notes and certificates of deposit and excludes checking and
savings deposits. ACF was adopted readily by banks as it permits to reflect
frequent changes in the cost of funds and avoids borrowers from being locked
into high interest rates in nominal terms.
1.31      The ACF index increased from about 14.3% at year-end 1977 to 17.5%
by the end of 1979 and about 18.4% in February 1980 in response to higher
rates in world money markets and the Government's policy of allowing domestic
interest rates to rise sufficiently to retain resources in the financial
system. Banks are currently charging clients a spread of about two to five
points over the ACF index, i.e., interest rates of about 20.0% to 23.0% at
present, compared to average annual inflation rates in Mexico of about 18%
over the last two years. The effective interest rates charged on loans pro-
vided by CFM and FMNM have been about 17% (fixed rates) over the past year. 2/
In connection with the proposed Bank loan, CFM and FMNM, which would be
the principal lending agencies under the project, would also move to a system
of flexible rates based on the ACF index (para. 3.09).
II. INSTITUTIONS SUPPORTING THE SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING SECTOR
2.01      As noted above, the three state-owned agencies CFM, CRM and FMNM,
support SMM through various types of credits, risk capital for ore reserve
development, technical assistance or a combination of these facilities. Each
of these institutions has a different set of functions or cover a different
set of minerals, although there is some overlap.
A. COMISION DE FOMENTO MINERO
Backgound and Objectives
2.02      Of the three agencies supporting SMM, CFM is the oldest and largest.
It was established by the government under a law of December 31, 1938, as a
decentralized public agency, to help the development and exploitation of
mineral deposits throughout Mexico. Its objectives, which were redefined in
the 1975 Mining law, may be grouped under four main headings: (a) serving
as a holding company for state participations in mining or mineral-related
companies and as an executing agency of the government for the development
of large-scale mining projects in the public sector; (b) providing financial
) J  SWSequentlYy subl oans mnaae by ageacies tlnat deal  ith smal   andl iadutm
scale industry (including, mainly FOGAIN), which are participating in
another Bank supported project, have also been converted to a ACF-based
system.
2/   Except for the "ejido" communities, for which FMNM has been charging a
concessional fixed rate of 14%.



- 11 -
assistance to small and medium-sized mining companies; (c) owning and operat-
ing mines and beneficiation plants; and (d) providing technical assistance to
the mining enterprises, mostly of medium and small size. In addition to
financial assistance through credits and equipment leasing to SMM enterprises,
CFM has been assisting small mining enterprises through the operation of seven
regional 'betneficiation plants' which enable small enterprises that cannot
afford their own mineral concentration units to process their ore without
incurring excessively high transportaion and processing costs. Acting as
the government's holding company, CFM also fully or partly owns equity in
32 companies which are involved in the production of minerals or provision of
services related to a variety of minerals (para. 2.07). In addition, CFM has
the country's most important metallurgical laboratory serving the Mexican
mining industry.
Organization, Management and Staffing
2.03      CFM's overall policy-making body is its board of directors
('consejo directivo') headed by the Minister for National Patrimony and
Industrial Development. The board is comprised of two other representatives
from SEPAFIN, 1/ and the heads (or their representatives) of the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit, Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Nacional
Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA), CRM, Camara Minera de Mexico, 2/ Federacion
Nacional de Asociaciones de Mineros Pequenos, A.C., 3/ and the National
Syndicate of Mine Workers. CFM's day-to-day operations are directed by its
Director General, who is assisted by a General Manager and several heads of
departments/divisions responsible, respectively, for operations of affiliated
companies, promotion and credit operations of affiliated companies, promotion
and credit operations, technical evaluation, regional beneficiation plants,
economic studies, administration, laboratory, and legal matters (see Annex 10
for Organization Chart). To help carry out its promotion and technical
assistance activities throughout Mexico, CFM maintains 12 regional offices and
8 'promotion offices,' (for their locations see Annex 7 and map in Annex 14,
C-1). CFM's management and professional staff is adequately qualified,
dedicated and responsive to the leadership provided by the Director General.
Mr. Aparicio Varela, who has been CFM's Director General for two years, is
well qualified to provide the required leadership and has had valuable prior
experience as the Director General of Mines in SEPAFIN and as a senior official
of FIRA. 4/
2.04      With the government's increased emphasis on SMM development, CFM
has recently modified and streamlined its internal organizational structure
to strengthen its capabilities to support SMM. The main changes involve the
1/   The Director General of Mines and Subsecretary for Mines and Energy.
2/   Chamber of Commerce representing medium and large sized mining
enterprises.
3/   National Federation of small miners' associations.
4/   FIRA is a government trust fund which provides financing for agriculture
and agroindustry and is a principal implementing agency for ongoing Bank
loans to support the PIDER rural development program.



- 12 -
consolidation of the promotion, regional plants, credit and laboratories
departments under the newly created Technical Department, which would have the
overall responsibility for all financial and technical assistance programs
oriented towards SMM development, and a strengthening of the project evaluation
and supervision units. Competitive salary levels in recent years enabled CFM
to attract a number of experienced professionals from both the public and
private sectors to fill key positions with responsibility for SMM development
activities, including that of the Manager of the Technical Department.
2.05      Countrywide, CFM has a total staff of 1,432 including 234 profes-
sionals. A total of 236 (including 118 professionals) are stationed at head-
quarters in Mexico City, and 1,196 (including 116 professionals) at its
regional and promotion offices. A large proportion (103, including 32
professionals) of the headquarters staff are attached to CFM's laboratory,
which has good testing and quality control facilities and is highly regarded
for its professionalism.
Operations
2.06      Until recently CFM placed its operational emphasis and financial
resources mainly on its equity holdings in mining and other mineral-related
enterprises, and its activities as the government's executing agency in
developing large scale mining projects. CFM's financial assistance to non-
affiliated SMM enterprises has been small and fragmented in comparison,
although its assistance to small mining enterprises through the operation of
seven regional beneficiation plants and its technical assistance services for
SMM has been significant. During 1975-77, for example, CFM's total annual
approvals of financing (including various types of loans and leasing opera-
tions) to SMM enterprises averaged only about Mex$140 million (US$6.4 million
equivalent). However, reflecting the current dynamism of the SMM sector and
the government's new impetus to SMM development (which falls almost entirely
within the private sector), CFM's annual authorizations of financing for SMM
during 1978-79 were more than twice as high and, by CFM's estimates, could
increase by 30% or more annually (in nominal terms) during 1980-82 (Annex 14,
T-6). The projected rapid growth appears feasible in view of the relatively
low base of CFM's current SMM operations and the generally favorable climate
in the sector resulting from the recent government reforms. The following is
a more detailed description of CFM's activities.
2.07      Subsidiaries and affiliates. 1/  In its capacity as a holding
company CFM owned outstanding shares, as of June 30, 1979, in 27 mining and
mineral processing companies, and five other companies involved in transporta-
tion, trading and provision of consulting services related to minerals. Total
equity portfolio amounted to about US$85 million. It held virtually 100% of
the shares in five companies, a majority shareholding in 9 additional companies,
and a minority position in the remaining. (Annex 14, T-8 lists CFM's holdings.)
Of these companies, several are involved in the mining and processing of
1/   Companies in which CFM holds a majority equity particpation are commonly
referred to as its 'subsidiaries' and those with a minority participation
as 'affiliates.'



- 13 -
strategic minerals, and are required by law to have a majori:y 'participation
of the state or CFM (para. 1.14). Excluding these and other companies which
are primarily involved in providing services for the mining sector or only
indirectly related to mining activities (for example, smelting companies and
manufacturers of mining equipment and trading companies), CFM's remaining
equity portfolio is primarily composed of participations in several large
mining enterprises or groups with 'mixed' (public and privat,) ownership.
Only three mining companies in CFM's present equity portfolio would fall
within the definition of SMM suggested for the Special Program (para. 1.09). 1/
2.08      CFM's holdings in affiliate companies and subsidiaries have grown
from a total of about Mex$279 million at the end of 1971 to over Mex$2.2
billion in June 31, 1979, mainly as a result of the development of several
new mines by the government. After tax return on its equity portfolio has
varied over the last few years in the range of 15% to 22% (excluding companies
in pre-operative stage). A substantial portion of this investment income
resulted from the operations of four companies (Azufrera Panamericana S.A.,
Cia. Explotadora del Istmo S.A., Exportadora de Sal S.A., and Cia. de Real del
Monte y Pachuca, S.A.). The first two companies are producers of sulfur and
the other two of salt and silver, respectively. These subsidiaries are
majority owned by CFM and account for about 75% of CFM's income on equity
holdings.
2.09      Pursuant to the government's policy of maintaining some state
participation in industry and mining, CFM plans to continue to hold equity
participations in its subsidiaries and affiliates. However, CFM confirmed
in connection with the proposed loan that, as a matter of policy, it would
encourage the formation and expansion of SMM enterprises as far as possible on
the companies' own initiative and capital. CFM would participate in the
equity of such companies only in cases in which sufficient private initiative
and financing is not forthcoming, or if the mineral produced or the region
where it is located is of strategic importance. This strategy with respect
to CFM's participation in subsidiaries and affiliates is reflected in CFM's
Operating Guidelines (see para. 2.32 and Annex 3).
2.10      Financial assistance to SMM.  CFM has been providing assistance
to SMM enterprises through a variety of credit and equipment leasing opera-
tions, including:
(a) fixed asset loans ('refaccionarios') to finance mining,
transportation and beneficiation/concentration plant
equipment, construction and other costs of mine develop-
ment, for terms usually not exceeding 5 years; 2/
1/   CFM informed the appraisal mission that it is highly unlikely that these
firms would in fact seek funds under the proposed Bank project for SMM,
since they normally have access to other sources of financing.
2/   In the past, 'refaccionarios' included small amounts of financing
(usually not exceeding Mex$1 million) for permanent (structural) work-
ing capital. In the future, CFM would separate these two categories
following the new guidelines under the Special Program for SMM develop-
ment.



- 14 -
(b) advances for ore delivered to the mineral concentration
plant ('anticipos') or for ore mined and awaiting transpor-
tation at mine site or in transit to a concentration plant
('pignoraciones'), with maximum limits of up to 80% of the
value of the mineral in the case of 'anticipos' and up to
70% of the value in the cases of 'pignoraciones,' with
terms not exceeding one year for both types;
(c) medium-term (1-4 years) leasing of mining and other equipment
such as compressors, drills and trucks, with option for the
client company to purchase;
(d) short-term leasing of mining equipment for periods of up to 3
months, with monthly rents equal to 5-10% of the value of
the equipment, depending on its estimated total life;
(e) 'risk capital' loans of up to Mex$150,000 to finance
evaluative exploration (for the development of ore reserves),
under which the client company has no obligation to repay
the loan if the exploration is unsuccessful; and
(f) emergency loans ('mutuos') of up to Mex$150,000 with terms of
up to one year, for which no specific collateral is required. 1/
2.11         CFM has in the past used only ad hoc procedures to determine the
maximum amount and terms of financing and the lending conditions associated
with each of the above categories of financing. Also, CFM has had no written
policies on the interest rates to be charged under each of the above types of
operations. As a matter of convention, however, CFM has been using resources
borrowed from NAFINSA to finance part of the fixed assets loans CFM has been
charging the client companies the same rate as that charged by NAFINSA to CFM
(currently 17% per year) on all its loans (including ore advances) to client
enterprises. The equipment leasing contracts have been carrying somewhat
lower effective annual rates of interest, in the range of 12-15% depending
on the type of contract and the leasing term.
2.12         CFM is taking immediate steps to streamline the procedure to
formulate clearly defined and consistent lending and leasing limits, terms and
conditions. The new procedures would be designed to ensure complete consistency
with the financing limits, terms, interest rates and other conditions as
proposed under the Special Program for SMM development (paras. 3.07 to 3.11)
for all fixed asset loans, equipment leasing operations with option to purchase,
and loans for permanent working capital and ore reserve development (evaluative
exploration). CFM's short-term financing in the form of 'anticipos' and
'pignoraciones,' which are not covered under the Special Program, would
continue, following the current guidelines (para. 2.10), but would carry
interest rates identical to those under CFM's other lending operations. CFM
1/   Another type of emergency loans called 'autocompras,' which are essen-
tially 'buy and lease-back' operations, has also been used by CFM in a
few isolated cases in the past. However, CFM confirmed that it intends
to discontinue such operations.



- 15 -
would also continue to make emergency loans ('mutuos' which are also excluded
from the Special Program) not exceeding Mex$150,000 but only at a penalty
interest rate (4-5% higher than on its normal loans in effective terms) and
for terms not exceeding 3 months, in order to discourage the use of such
operations except in cases of exceptional need and urgency; in the future,
such loans vould be made only when there is ample justification to believe
that the operations of the client enterprise would be viable if the emergency
is overcome. The above policies and procedures relating to CFM's credit
operations for SMM are reflected in its Operating Guidelines (para. 2.32).
2.13      Annex 14, T-10 analyzes the number and amount of financing opera-
tions outstanding in CFM's loan and equipment leasing according to size
of credit, size of mining enterprise supported, geographical location, and
type of financing. All client enterprises that received financing from CFM
would fall under the definition of SMM enterprises proposed for the purpose
of the Special Program (para. 2.09) and 70-80% of the number as well as the
amount of financing outstanding was for "small" mining enterprises under the
proposed definition. The number of financing operations are almost equally
divided between new and expansion projects, although more than 70% of the
amount of financing was for expansion of existing mines. Furthermore, over
95% of the total of financing outstanding (by number as well as by amount)
was for enterprises located in Zones I and II as defined in the 1979 decen-
tralization law, that is, in high priority areas outside Mexico City. More
than 40% of the number of loans and nearly 30% of the amount of financing
were for enterprises located in Zone I, which is comprised of areas designated
by the government as of the highest priority. Annex 14, T-11 contains a more
detailed analysis of the size structure of CFM's fixed asset loans and long-
term equipment leasing operations. 1/ It shows that the median size of a
fixed asset loan made by CFM has been of the order of Mex$1 million (about
US$45,000 equivalent) and of the median equipment leasing operation is of
the order of Mex$200,000 (about US$19,000 equivalent); these figures indicate
that the average amounts of financing provided by CFM under these categories
have tended to be relatively small, falling well within the maximum size
limits being proposed under the Special Program.
2.14      In its efforts to accelerate the development of SMM enterprises
under the Special Program, CFM plans to increase lending significantly in
future years for ore reserve development, in order to complement the
efforts of CRM in this area and help solve the "bottle neck" which CRM is
experiencing in its SMM project evaluation program (para. 2.73); and to
foster the development of private exploration consultant groups which could
significantly help SMM development in the medium to long run. To carry out
this work, CFM proposes to engage private contractors and consultants with
specialized capabilities and knowledge of the geological and ore reserve
development work, mine evaluations and feasibility studies.
2.15      Regional beneficiation plants.  CFM is currently operating several
regional beneficiation plants to serve groups of small mining enterprises
(generally 10 to 30) located in the surrounding areas (map in Annex 14,
1/   The two basic categories of financing that are likely to account for the
bulk of the Bank financing provided under the proposed project.



- 16 -
C-1).  The beneficiation plants offer their respective client SMM enterprises
facilities to concentrate their minerals on a 'maquila' (tolling) basis, that
is, for a processing fee and, in some cases, help them sell the mineral
concentrates. CFM is, however, considering moving on an experimental basis
from these 'maquila' operations at its regional plants to arrangements under
which the regional plant would purchase the output from each mine and pay the
individual client companies on the basis of the respective ore contents, and
later sell the concentrates on its own account. The potential for higher
volume 'runs' of the concentration plants under such a system could help
achieve economies of scale 1/ whose benefits could be passed on to the client
SMM enterprises in the form of higher purchase prices of the minerals, and would
avoid "high-grading" of minerals towards which the small enterprises would be
forced in the absence of economic ore processing facilities. If the initial
experience with the new system is encouraging, CFM would consider converting all
its regional plants from 'maquila' type to 'buy and sell' type operations. In
principle this new strategy appears sound and well justified, although suitable
steps would have to be taken to prevent unduly high risks from price fluctua-
tions of inventory awaiting processing at the regional plants. Preliminary
indications are that such risks would be minimal, because of the relatively
short time required for processing and transporting the minerals to the smelters
and the generally wide mix of minerals which diversifies and reduces risks from
price fluctuations.
2.16      Annex 14, T-7 summarizes the salient characteristics of CFM's
seven regional plants which are currently operating, six additional plants
under construction and five future plants programmed for construction over
the next 2 1/2 years. As is seen from this table, the physical capacity
of most of the plants is in the range of 100 to 200 tons/day. The individual
regional plants generally have 40-100 direct employees and involve total
investment costs of US$1-2 million equivalent (for a new plant in 1979),
implying investment costs of the order of US$2,000-4,000 equivalent per
fulltime job created. 2/
2.17      The regional beneficiation plants generally operate at a loss
during the first few years, but begin to make nominal operating profits
thereafter once the total volume of mineral permits operation at an
economic scale. 3/ To date, CFM has sought to keep beneficiation tolls to
1/   The locations of the regional plants are chosen on the basis of a com-
parison of the geological potential of the different mining regions and
the demand from the surrounding small mines. However, some deficiencies
are evident in the locational analysis, which has often been done in an
ad hoc rather than in a systematic basis; some improvements are thus
called for in relation to the procedures for selecting and evaluating the
locations of CFM's future regional plant projects (para. 2.22).
2/' The indirect employment created at the small mines supplying to the
regional mines is, of course, much greater, as is seen from
Annex 12, T-7.
3!   At present, of the seven regional beneficiation Plants, five are
operating at close to capacity levels and two at 65-70% of production
capacity.



- 17 -
small miners low by not covering full financial costs in setting 'maquila'
(tolling) charges. There is ample justification for the operation of regional
beneficiation plants to provide small scale mining enterprises with facilities
not otherwise available to them and to enable them to operate at total costs
comparable to those of medium-sized enterprises that can afford their own
concentration plants. However, there would be a need to increase 'maquila'
charges to cover full costs of regional plants to make them financially
self-sufficient. Regional beneficiation plants to be built under the proposed
project would charge 'maquila' tariffs or margins sufficient to cover their
full operating and capital costs of the life of the plants (para. 3.12).
2.18      Technical assistance activities.  Through its laboratory facilities
and its regional and promotion offices, CFM appears to be effective in provid-
ing a wide range of technical assistance services--mainly to SMM--related to
production of minerals. These activities include advice to clients (through
consultation and site visits), on identification and evaluation of mineral
reserves, mining techniques, beneficiation, costing, marketing, and a wide
variety of technical problems faced by SMM. A summary of CFM's technical
assistance visits and consultancies in 1978 and the types of technical prob-
lems addressed by CFM is shown in Annex 14, T-9.
2.19      At present, CFM's central laboratory in the Mexico City area combines
facilities for physical, chemical and metallurgical testing of ores and
assaying the metal content of concentrates, and includes a bench scale/pilot
plant for testing metallurgical processes. Until recently this laboratory has
served the needs of clients country-wide. However, with the sharp increase in
activities, especially in the last two years, significant delays appear to
have developed in meeting the demand for information, which is basic to the
evaluation of proposed mineral ventures (e.g., grades, and ore response to
milling).
2.20      Based on a recognition of the above and an overall review of the
need for laboratory services of the mining community, CFM has determined the
need for five regional laboratories: one in Hermosillo to be completed in
1979/80; another for Sonora planned for 1980; one each for Zacatecas and Coahuila
projected for 1981; and one in Jalisco for 1982. These regional laboratories
would comprise basic analytical facilities for determining grades of metal in
rocks and bench scale metallurgical testing equipment for evaluating the metal
recovery response of the various commodities. The laboratories would serve as
effective support services for the exploration and mine development of the
regions in which they are located. This proposed plan for the development of
a system of regional laboratories appears to be well justified, provided that
the equipment for such laboratories is carefully selected to match the needs
of SMM enterprises in the regions. Based on the success of these regional
laboratories, CFM would review the need for any additional laboratories in the
region.
2.21      Finally, the training program (para. 2.26), and new initiatives
promotion (para. 2.28) now being prepared by CFM are also aimed, in part, at
improving CFM's ability to provide technical assistance to its SMM clients.



- 18 -
Project Evaluation, Approval, and Supervision
2.22      CFM's regional offices perform the initial phase of evaluation of
applications by SMM for credits and equipment leasing. These offices are
authorized to approve operations of up to Mex$150,000 for short-term equipment
leasing, ore advances ('anticipos' and 'pignoraciones') and emergency loans
('mutuos'). CFM's Internal Credit Committee--which is headed by the Director
General of CFM and consists of the General Manager, the Technical Director,
and the Director of Affiliates and Subsidiaries--is authorized to approve all
credit operations (including fixed asset loans and long-term equipment leases)
of up to Mex$5 million. Operations in excess of Mex$5 million require the
authorization of a committee composed of some members of CFM's board of
directors, representing the board as a whole.
2.23      While both CFM's headquarters and regional staff are generally
competent in the evaluation of geological and technical aspects of mining
projects, the quality of this work has not been consistent. Standard guide-
lines have been lacking on the approach and procedures used for the technical
analysis and estimation of the mineral value. Futhermore, and perhaps more
importantly, CFM's procedures for financial and economic evaluation of SMM
projects have been generally weak, with the overall quality of such evaluation
showing considerable variance. CFM's credit and leasing operations have
been only a small and relatively new part of its total activities and its
evaluation staff are not yet adequately oriented toward these development
banking activities.
2.24      Over the past months, however, CFM has taken measures to ensure the
systematic evaluation of the administrative, financial, marketing, technical
and economic aspects of its projects in future project evaluations. As a
first step, it has appointed an experienced analyst to head its reorganized
Credit Department and is taking action to increase its evaluation staff from
4 to 8-10 professionals within the coming year. Also, CFM as well as CRM and
FMNM would implement a satisfactory set of guidelines for systematic appraisal
of administrative, financial, marketing, technical and economic aspects of
their projects. As part of the appraisal process, they will pay particular
attention to the evaluation of the mineral reserves (by experienced geologists),
classifying them into proven, probable and possible categories. The degree of
confidence in ore reserve estimation required for project financing will
depend to a large extent on the characteristics of each proposed project. For
projects involving the development of individual mines, a high level of estima-
tion, confidence of proven and probable reserves is usually required in order to
ensure adequate payback capacity from the mineral deposit. On the other hand
where financing of a regional beneficiation plant for several small mines is
contemplated, strict minimum requirements for the proven and probable reserves
migbht not be appropriate or realistic, for each of these small mines and the
use of the possible category for a least a part of the total mineral reserves
in the area should be acceptable for financing, provided that a qualified and
experienced geologist agrees with the assessment. 1/ CFM has already issued
1/   The reserves criteria would have to be considered in conjunction with the
engineering implications which may vary from one mineral deposit to
another. The considered judgement of a qualified engineer/geologist is
therefore of the utmost importance.



- 19 -
an indicative check list for its regional offices, suggesting the relevant
points that would have to be covered in future appraisals of credits and
leasing projects for SMM. For appraisals of proposed new regional bene-
ficiation plants, CFM will take into consideration, in addition to the above:
(a) a comparative evaluation (which would be updated periodically) of the
geological and other potential of alternative regions as locations for
future regional plants, (b) availability and cost of the required infrastruc-
ture facilities, and (c) criteria for choosing a specific location, taking
into account the convenience to the different miners to be served by the
regional plant.
2.25      With respect to project supervision, CFM depends essentially upon
site visits and spot reports on problems detected by its regional offices.
While some project problems are identified and corrected under present super-
vision practices, the system would have to strengthened considerably in light
of the rapidly increasing credit program for SMM. In this connection, CFM
management would introduce improved project supervision procedures involving:
(a) more systematic supervision of its credits, investments, regional beneficia-
tion plants and equipment leasing, (b) special attention (including site visits)
to projects in arrears or experiencing major problems, (c) periodic reports
from each field office on supervision and promotion activities, status of
loans, including project pipelines, and early warning on potential "problem"
projects, and (d) consolidated quarterly portfolio reviews including suggestions
for corrective measures and management action in the case of problem projects.
2.26      During appraisal the Bank mission worked closely with SEPAFIN,
CFM and FMNM on proposals for a training program in project evaluation and
supervision and portfolio control for CFM's and FMNM's technical staff, in
connection with the expansion of these institutions' SMM development activities
contemplated under the Special Program. SEPAFIN, in conjunction with CFM and
FMNM has prepared preliminary proposals for such a training program, which
would include at least one training course each for CFM's and FMNM's technical
staff in each of the years 1980 and 1981. The Bank's Economic Development
Institute (EDI) has discussed the preliminary training proposals with SEPAFIN
and would provide assistance in organizing the course material and other
advice as needed. As part of project supervision, the Bank would closely
follow the progress of the training efforts and the development of the required
technical capacity in CFM and FMNM.
Credit and Promotion Policies and Strategy
2.27      In addition to the streamlining of credit policies and the reforms
described earlier (para. 2.12) which would be implemented to facilitate the
proposed expansion of CFM's financial assistance programs for SMM, CFM intends
to further strengthen its credit policies by adding some new features in the
draft statement of Policy and Strategy. First, in evaluating its credit
applications, CFM would focus its attention primarily on a full evaluation of
the project (para. 2.24) including its expected cash flows. Since the mining
concession represents the basis for the expected project cash flows, CFM
would, in the future require, whenever possible, the mining concession as part
of the loan security. Second, CFM would also make changes in its risk-sharing
contracts for evaluative exploration to harmonize its terms and conditions
with those of CRM. 1/ Thus, under ore reserve development loans (for which
1/   In the past, there were inconsistencies between the conditions offered
by CFM and CRM for such contracts. For example, unlike CRM, CFM was
not requiring its clients to pay royalties in case the exploration were
successful.



- 20 -
the borrower puts up no repayment guarantee), CFM would absorb 90% of the cost
in the event of unfavorable results (para 2.76). If successful, the borrower
would pay back full principal and interest (at rates identical to those under
CFM"s fixed asset loans) plus royalties of 1-3% of the value of production
from any deposits discovered and developed. 1/
2.23      CFM intends to intensify its SMM promotional activities making use
of direct visits to mine operators and prospective entrepeneurs, as well as
through regional seminars. It is also planning to publish a brochure to
familiarize SMM enterprises with the various sources, types and character-
istics of the financial and technical assistance (including laboratory facil-
ities) available, and the channels for obtaining them. In addition, CFM would
arrange for systematic briefings/seminars for its regional staff to update
their information on SMM development activities. In carrying out the above
promotion activities, CFM would collaborate closely with FMNM and CRM and plan
locations of its future 'sucursales', promotion offices and regional labora-
tories in consultation with them. It would also attempt to foster interest
in the private banking sector in financing SMM.
2.29      As a basis for its future promotion and planning activities, CFM
has recently begun a detailed evaluation of the different mining districts in
Mexico from the viewpoint of the basic geological potential, types of deposits,
number and types of SMM operations and their perceived needs. This exercise
is quite ambitious and has to be undertaken in stages, mainly using the staff
of its regional offices. CFM expects to complete the first phase of such an
evaluation within the next six months.
Portfolio Quality
2.30      An analysis of CFM's loans outstanding as of mid-1979, presented in
Annex 14, T-12, shows that Mex$36 million, or 8% of the total principal out-
staLnding (Mex$445 million) was in arrears for more than 3 months, and the
total amount of loans affected by such arrears accounted for 25% of CFM's
total loan portfolio. A substantial amount of these credits in arrears are
expected to be recovered over the medium term. Only three minor cases of loan
reschedulings were reported in the first six months of 1979; in general, loan
reschedulings are authorized by CFM only in very exceptional cases and have to
be justified on the basis of future cash flow prospects. Of its outstanding
loan portfolio at the end of 1978 only 1.03% was considered uncollectable.
2.31      A good part of the arrears problems can be attributed to inadequate
portfolio control and management information systems rather than poor loan
quaility.  As mentioned earlier, CFM has recently strengthened its credit
department and plans to introduce more effecitve methods of portfolio control,
including more systematic loan supervision and better use of its regional
offices to follow up with delinquent borrowers (para. 2.25). In addition, CFM
would enforce the penalty interest rate required on the amounts not paid on
time in the case of credits and leasing contracts in arrears.
1/   The apparent overlap in exploration of functions by CFM and CRM has been
a subject of discussion between the Bank appraisal mission and CFM. In
this connection, CFM indicated that it would finance contracts for ore
reserve development or evaluative explorations only if CRM cannot under-
take a contract because of lack of personnel or inability to fulfiil
timing requirements.



- 21 -
Statement of Operating Policies and Strategy
2.32      CFM has taken the opportunity of the expanded SMM development
activities contemplated under the Special Program to review its basic operat-
ing policies and strategy, and accordingly, has prepared draft Operating
Guidelines for implementation of the Special Program (Annex 3). This statement
covers, among other things, promotion strategy for SMM, credit and financial
policies, strategy for regional beneficiation plants and CFM subsidiaries and
affiliates, personnel, recruitment and training, project and credit evaluation
policies, project supervision and portfolio control, and coordination of
laboratory programs under the proposed project. Most of these topics have
been covered in the description and analysis of CFM contained in this report.
A satisfactory draft of the Operating Guidelines has been agreed upon at loan
negotiations. Formal approval of the Guidelines by CFM's board would be a
special condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Any subsequent
substantial change in the Guidelines would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
Accounting, Control and Auditing
2.33      CFM has an adequate accounting system for its credit operations as
well as for payments to and collection from clients, subsidiaries and affi-
liates, conforming to the official regulations and guidelines. The accounts
of its regional offices and beneficiation plants are included in the consolidated
financial statements of CFM but are shown separately, and they are subject
to periodic internal auditing procedures. As mentioned above, CFM is fully
aware of the need to develop practical control systems that would include
project and portfolio control and also management methods designed to ensure
prompt follow-up and corrective action by its staff, when required.
2.34      CFM's financial statements have been audited for the past several
years by Despacho Jorge Reza Inclan, an independent public auditing firm
selected and assigned by the Ministry of Planning and Budgeting (SPP). The
audit reports for the past three years have been unqualified.
Financial Position, Resource and Projections
2.35      Annex 14, T-13 and T-14 present summarized audited balance sheets
of CFM as of December 31, 1977 and 1978, as well as projections through 1982.
More than 60% of CFM's total assets of about Mex$3.2 billion (about US$141
million equivalent) at the end of 1978 were accounted for by its equity port-
folio. Fixed asset loans and equipment leases with option to purchase, on
the other hand made up a relatively small fraction of CFM's total assets in
the past years.
2.36      Reflecting the expansion of CFM's credit program in support of SMM,
projected balance sheet figures for 1979 through 1982 estimate growth of
more than 30% annually in CFM's outstanding loan portfolio (from Mex$286
million at the end of 1979 to Mex$678 million at December 31, 1979). The
projected balance sheets also show a substantial rise in fixed assets for the
1979-82 period, corresponding mainly to the expansion of CFM's regional bene-
ficiation plants program. Similarly, the projections show continued growth--
about 27% per year in nominal terms--in CFM's investment in subsidiary or
affiliate companies.



- 22 -
2.37      In the past, nearly 90% of CFM's resources for its operational costs
and capital expenditure have been obtained in the form of direct contributions
from the government, with the balance coming from surpluses generated from
operations. CFM has been using small amounts of financing under different
lines of short- and long-term credit lines granted by NAFINSA (currently about
US$0.9 imillion equivalent), mainly for CFM's fixed asset loans. In support of
the expanded SMM program, the government will contribute substantial amounts
to cover the local currency component of CFM's SSM development activities,
averaging about Mex$320 million (about US$14 million equivalent) per year for
the period 1980-82 (para. 3.15).
2.38      CFM has had no experience in negotiating or obtaining credits from
foreign or domestic banks, although it is legally authorized to borrow from
other sources if needed. While such borrowing is not likely to occur soon,
Mexican private banks indicated to the Bank mission that financing could be
attracted--directly by mining companies or through CFM--if the government's
SMM program results in improved project preparation, backed by good ore
reserves and financial information for potential SMM clients.
Procurement and Disbursement
2.39      Under its current procurement practices, CFM ensures that at least
three price quotations from suppliers are obtained for all its purchases in
excess of Mex$2,000. CFM's draft Operating Guidelines (para. 2.32) specify
that it would continue to follow this procedure and would ensure price and
quality competitiveness for all items financed under CFM's subloans to SMM
enterprises as well as for items directly procured by CFM for its regional
beneficiation plants and equipment leasing (para 3.23). CFM will also
collaborate with CRM and FMNM to achieve consistency among the three agencies
on procurement procedures, and study ways to ensure the most favorable prices
possible for recipients of credits, including the possible application to SMM
borrowers of the favorable prices offered (and registered) by manufacturers
for procurement by government agencies.
2.40      Disbursement of the credit proceeds are governed by CFM's credit
regulations and by provisions contained in each credit agreement between CFM
and its client. Payments to borrowers are adequately controlled and certified
by CFM against invoices and shipping documents submitted through CFM regional
offices.
B. FIDEICOMISO MINERALES NO METALICOS MEXICANOS
Background and Objectives
2.41      FMNM was established by presidential decree on October 30, 1974, as
a government trust ("Fideicomiso") administered by NAFINSA to stimulate
exploration, exploitation and marketing of non-metallic minerals in Mexico.
The Mexican authorities recognized that although substantial reserves existed
in Mexico, the exploration and development of most non-metallic minerals had
been traditionally neglected except for coal, sulfur, phosphate rock, salt and



- 23 -
flourspar, and that many of the non-metallic minerals existing in Mexico were
being imported (see Annex 14, T-3). A second objective of FMNM is to facilitate
the flow of economic benefits and the creation of employment among the
"ejidatarios", by opening ejido land for exploration and development of non-
metallic minerals. The two objectives are consistent because non-metallic
minerals c-en occur in shallow deposits close to the land surface, and are
spread over large secluded areas which characterize many of the ejidos, making
them suitable for organizing community-based small- and medium- size mining
operations. A third objective is to support the development of the non-metallic
SMM sector by providing adequate infrastructure and technology for its growth.
2.42      FMNM's plan is to fulfill these objectives, through technical and
financial assistance for the exploration, development and exploitation of
non-metallic mineral deposits. FMNM also plans to develop a construction
program of regional beneficiation units to process non-metallic minerals and
market the end-products, much along the same lines as CFM's regional benefi-
ciation plants (para. 2.15), to help SMM enterprises which do not have adequate
structure for processing/beneficiating their crude minerals. In addition,
FMNM holds equity participations in five enterprises engaged in the mining
and/or processing of non-metallic minerals, all of which have been formed as a
result of exploration or other initiatives on the part of FMNM.
Organization, Management and Staffing
2.43      The governing body of FMNM is its Technical and Funds Disbursement
Committee ("Comite Tecnico y de Distribucion de Fondos"), formed by represen-
tatives from the Ministry of Finance, SEPAFIN, Ministry of Industry and
Commerce, Ministry of Programming and Budgeting, Department of Land Affairs
and Rural Settlement, CFM, NAFINSA, and the National Fund for Ejido Development.
The Minister for SEPAFIN is the chairman of the Committee. The Committee
takes an active interest in directing FMNM activities, meeting periodically to
make decisions on policies, procedures, financial plans and budgets; it also
approves financing and equipment leasing operations larger than Mex$3 million,
based on recommendations from FMNM's staff.
2.44      Authority is delegated to the Director General of FMNM for selection
of key management staff and establishment of project evaluation criteria and
credit. FMNM's current Director General, Mr. Moises Kolteniuk Toyber,
has the necessary qualifications, support, and leadership qualities to develop
FMNM into a competent institution, having earlier been the sub-director of
projects and special studies in SEPAFIN. Mr. Kolteniuk is assisted by two
able sub-directors - Mr. Ubaldo Alarcon Santana, for the Technical Department,
and Mr. Jorge Medellin Ortega, for the Finance and Credit Department.
2.45      FMNM's staff are relatively young and inexperienced, but they
possess the basic knowledge and skills necessary to carry out their tasks.
They are generally well motivated and possess adequate potential to ensure
the success of FMNM's development program. Several staff members have re-
cently been hired, including some from private banking institutions, to fill
key positions in the Finance and Credit Department. FMNM's salaries are
sufficiently competitive to attract and retain high quality professionals.



- 24 -
FMNM is planning to introduce specific training programs for its professional
staff to further upgrade their skills in project evaluation and control,
financial analysis and management (para. 2.58). In hiring new personnel for
the expansion of its activities, FMNM will add headquarters as well as field
staff as required by the potential for expansion in the various regions.
FMNM's staff currently totals about 90 (including 52 professionals) and is
expected to double during the development of the Special Program. Some 12
employees are currently stationed in 5 regional offices (see Annex 7 and map
in Anne!x 14, C-l). An indicative organization chart of FMNM is presented in
Annex 11.
Operations
2.46      FMNM started operations only in 1976.  FMNM is authorized under its
operat:ing regulations to carry out a wide range of operations, including
exploration (on its own initiative or at the request of a client enterprise or
an ejido community), development, extraction, marketing, and distribution
through credits, equity investments, equipment leasing, technical assistance
activities and basic research. 1/ In effect, in the case of the non-metallic
minerals, FMNM is authorized to fulfill the entire range of responsibilities
that are covered for metallic minerals by CRM and CFM.  FMNM's operations
involve all non-metallic minerals except coal, sulfur, fluorspar, salt and
phosphate rock, which are reserved for exploitation and extraction through
enterprises fully or partly owned by the state or its agent, CFM. For explora-
tion, FMNM has adopted a policy of carrying out geological investigations in
project development activities in most cases through CRM.
2.47      Equity investments in subsidiaries.  FMNM has made equity invest-
ments totalling Mex$262 million (about US$11.4 million equivalent) in the
following five subsidiaries: Sonocal (a limestone producer in Sonora);
Grafitos de Mexico (crystalline and amorphous graphite); Minerales no
Metalicos de Guerrero (pottery clay); Marmoles del Valle Mezquital (finished
marble); and Barita de Sonora (barite).  All of these subsidiaries are inte-
grated producers covering mineral extraction and beneficiation as well
as marketing. 2/ With the exception of Minerales No Metalicos de Guerrero
and Grafito de Mexico, in which FMNM has a participation of about 80%, FMNM
holds 100% of the shares of the remaining operations. Three of the subsi-
diaries (Sonocal, Marmoles del Valle Mezquital and Minerales no Metalicos
de Guerrero) are presently operating profitably (Annex 14, T-17); the
remaining two are still in the construction stage.
2.48      Credits and other financial assistance to SMM.  FMNM's focus has
historically been on establishing and operating mining companies rather than
on promoting and assisting small mines. Thus lending to small miners totaled
Mex$25 million in 1976, practically none in 1977 (para 2.56), and Mex$20 million
in 1978. In 1978, FMNM expects, in keeping with the recent government emphasis,
to increase its lending to SMM to Mex$55 million, or about US$2.5 million
equivalent.
1!   FMNM is not directly involved in the marketing and distribution of
minerals, although many of its subsidiaries provide such services.
2/   Four of the five subsidiaries are located in ejido land, and some
offer mineral beneficiation facilities to the surrounding small mines.



- 25 -
2.49      FMNM has been making two types of credit operations:
(a) fixed asset loans ("refaccionarios") of up to Mex$4.5 million to
finance equipment costs and civil construction for terms usually
not exceeding 5 years and grace periods of up to one year; and
(b)  permanent working capital loans ("habilitacion o avio") of
up to Mex$3.5 million for terms not exceeding 3 years and
grace periods of up to one year.
In the case of fixed asset loans, FMNM has generally provided about one-half
of the total costs of the projects supported, with the remainder being con-
tributed by the project sponsor--a public or a private enterprise or an
ejido community.
2.50      FMNM's onlending interest rates to its final borrowers follow the
Ministry of Finance guidelines and have in the past usually been set equal
to its borrowing rate from NAFINSA (currently 17.5% p.a.), except for ejidos
which have been receiving loans at 14% p.a. (para. 1.31). FMNM's financial
operations have thus far been made mainly using government budgetary resources.
2.51      As of June 30, 1979, FMNM had approved fixed asset and working
capital credits totalling the equivalent of US$2.24 million, distributed as
shown below (Annex 14, T-18):
Total Credit       Average Loan
(US$'000 equivalent)      Amount
No. of Loans         Recipients              Amount       %      (US$'000)
13              Ejidos                     280      13         21.5
5              Subsidiaries             1,620      72        324.0
7              Private Enterprises        340       15        48.6
25                      Total            2,240      100        89.6
2.52      FINM is planning to increase significantly the level of its fixed
asset and working capital credits over the next three years (Annex 14, T-15),
in line with the objectives of the Special Program for SMM Development. FMNM
plans to initiate within the next six months a program of long-term equipment
leases with option for the clients to purchase, using terms, conditions and
procedures similar to those being used by CFM (para. 2.10). This would fill an
important need of small mining enterprises producing non-metallic minerals
which are unable to finance their own mining equipment. The projected levels
of the equipment leasing operations are indicated in Annex 14, T-15. Further-
more, FMNM is also considering diversifying its credit operations in the
future to include industrial mortgage-type loans and ore advances (similar to
"anticipos" and "pignoraciones" being offered by CFM in the case of metallic
minerals--see para. 2.10).



- 26 -
2.53      FMNM would change the limits of its credit and equipment leasing
operations in order to meet the expanded needs of SMM and achieve full conformity
with the size limits, terms, interest rates and loan conditions proposed for
the Special Program for SMM Development, which are to be agreed upon during
loan negotiations (paras. 3.05 to 3.11).
2.54      Regional beneficiation plants.  Recognizing the critical need for
regional beneficiation plants to provide beneficiation facilities for small
mining enterprises, FMNM is planning to embark on a program for construction
of regional plants for processing non-metallic minerals, following procedures,
criteria for selection and location and other norms similar to those under
CFM's regional plant program (paras. 2.15 to 2.17). FMNM projected that five
beneficiation plants would be constructed over the 1980-82 period, which would
have the potential to support 25-30 new small mining operations and generate
400-500 additional jobs in the mining areas (Annex 14, T-16 and map in
Annex 14, C-1). However, this schedule may be optimistic in view of FMNM's
lack of prior experience in this field and the relatively slow development
that can be expected for a program of this kind. A more realistic program may
be for three new regional beneficiation plants during 1980-1982. The capacity
of these plants will vary substantially according to the type of mineral and
the final stage of processing.
Overall Portfolio Quality
2.55      An analysis of FMNM's outstanding portfolio shows that, as of
June 30, 1979, FMNM's total reported arrears over three months amounted to
7.8% of outstanding portfolio, and the loans outstanding to such clients in
arrears represented 10% of FMNM's total loan portfolio (Annex 14, T-19 and
T-20). The rate of arrears is significantly higher if subsidiaries are
excluded from the portfolio. Most of the arrears problems can be traced to a
large number of loans made by FMNM to ejidos and one private borrower in 1976
(FMNM's first year of full operation), when its project evaluation experience
was still limited. Moreover, the strong support of the Mexican Government
prior to 1976 to financing of ejido lands may have superseded the rigor of
project evaluation. Two of the credits made to a group of marble-producing
ejidos were partly written off after the principal was recovered through a
transfer of equipment and marble produced by these ejidos to a subsidiary of
FMNM (Marmoles del Valle del Mezquital). FMNM and this subsidiary are giving
intensive technical assistance to these marble-producing ejidos to raise their
productivity and are purchasing raw marble for finishing and marketing.
2.56      FMNM is strongly committed to solving the arrears problems through
more adequate project and credit evaluation policies. Since 1977, it has
tightened its credit policies by requiring all projects, including ejido
projects, to satisfy rigorous viability criteria. The immediate consequence
has bleen that the volume of loans to ejidos (and hence the total volume)
dropped drastically in 1977. Since late 1978, three credits for private SMM
enterprises have been authorized after thorough evaluation, and these appear
to be satisfactory. FMNM has taken legal action against the three private
enterprises currently in arrears and expects to recover virtually all of the
principal and interest outstanding. Through its regional offices and subsi-
diaries, FMNM has also been making a concerted effort for training and pro-
viding technical assistance to the ejidos, which appears to be achieving
satisfactory results.



- 27 -
Project Evaluation, Approval and Supervision
2.57      As indicated above, FMNM has strengthened its project evaluation
procedures over the past year by considering more thoroughly the technical,
administrative, marketing, financial, economic and credit aspects of proposed
projects. The quality of FMNM's appraisal work, while acceptable, still
leaves room for improvement. Evaluation of ore reserves of mining projects
is generally performed by competent professionals with the assistance of CRM
geologists. However, a lack of consistency and quality of reporting is
noticeable in the evaluation of reserves. FMNM is making efforts now to
analyze more thoroughly the creditworthiness of its clients and the adequacy
of ore reserves and loan security, along the lines discussed in the case of
CFM (para 2.24).
2.58      FMNM's project appraisals are developed under the supervision of
a well-qualified and motivated financial and credit manager and three pro-
fessionals. This team is expected to be expanded to seven within the next
year. Since the past year, FMNM has been using uniform credit and project
evaluation criteria for all borrowers regardless of their ownership structure.
FMNM's draft Operating Guidelines (see para. 2.65 and Annex 4) reflect
these policies regarding project evaluation. FMNM has also confirmed during
loan negotiations that it would update its credit manual and prepare a detailed
checklist and a satisfactory format for project evaluation which it intends to
start implementing before mid-1980. In an effort to improve project evaluation
capabilities, SEPAFIN intends to organize special training courses in which
FMNM project analysts will participate jointly with their CFM counterparts
(para. 2.26).
2.59      While project supervision would be the principal responsibility of
FMNM's regional offices, it would be monitored on a continuous basis from the
head office to cope with the expected rapid expansion in volume of FMNM's
credit and leasing operations, regional beneficiation plant construction and
equity investments. FMNM intends to adopt supervision procedures similar to
those discussed in the case of CFM (para. 2.25). FMNM's Operating Guidelines
(para. 2.65) specify that FMNM would pay special attention to supervision of
subprojects involving financing to ejidos, with a view to providing them with
intensive technical assistance to improve their operations.
Financial Position and Resources
2.60      Annex 14, T-21 and T-22 present summarized year-end audited balance
sheets and income statements of FMNM for the past two years and projections
for 1980-82. FMNM's equity portfolio is expected to reach Mex$322.4 (about
US$14 million equivalent), or about 62% of total assets by the end of 1979.
Credit operations reflected in the outstanding loan portfolio for 1977/78
represent a small portion of FMNM's total assets. This portfolio, however,
is projected to grow substantially from 1979 through 1982, from Mex$67.1
million to Mex$405.3 million, reflecting the expected expansion of this
program (Annex 14, T-15) in support of the SMM. Fixed assets will also rise
substantially in the period as a result of implementation of projected regional
beneficiation plants and the proposed equipment leasing program.



- 28 -
2.61      While under its statutes FNNM, like CFM, can borrow from any source,
including private commercial banks, its resource requirements in the past have
been met from the government's budgetary resources and small amounts of
borrowings from NAFINSA. On behalf of one of its subsidiaries (Grafitos de
Mexico), FMNM has negotiated financing from private banks.
Accounting and Auditing
2.62      FMNM maintains an adequate accounting system covering separately its
own operations and those of its subsidiaries. As in the case of CFM, accounts
of FMNM are audited annually by Despacho Jorge Reza Inclan. All of FMNM's
audi.t reports have been unqualified. Subsidiaries of FMNM are also audited by
public accountants assigned by the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting, and
have received satisfactory reports in the last two years.
2.63      FMNM intends to maintain separate accounts for each of the regional
beneficiation plants for the purpose of calculating adequate 'maquila' charges
at each plant. These separate accounts will be consolidated into FMNM's
financial statements.
Procurement and Disbursement
2.64      FMNM's procurement procedures are generally adequate.  FMNM normally
requires quotations from at least three suppliers. This procedure has also
been adopted in the case of client projects. Also, the Technical Department
of FMNM verifies that goods and services purchased are suitable for the project
and are reasonably priced. FMNM's disbursement procedures are satisfactory
to ensure that funds are used for their intended purposes.
Operating Policies and Strategy
2.65      In order to guide its expanded SMM development activities under the
project, FMNM prepared draft Operating Guidelines for implementing the Special
Program (Annex 4), similar to those prepared by CFM (para. 2.32). The Guide-
lines aim among others for the closest possible cooperation among CFM, FMNM
and CRM in order to derive synergy in areas such as promotion, training and
planning of laboratory facilites and regional offices. A satisfactory draft
of the Operating Guidelines has been finalized following discussions at loan
negotiations. Formal approval of the Guidelines by FMNM's Technical Committee
would be a condition of Board presentation of the proposed loan. Any substan-
tial change in the Guidelines or FMNM's operating regulations (para. 2.46)
during the project's implementation would have to be acceptable to the Bank.
The following highlights important elements of FMNM's policies not covered
thus far.
2.66      FMNM's credit policies would in general be analogous to those of
CFM. EMNNM will require detailed supporting information on project proposals
from the SMM enterprises which must include an adequate evaluation of its
ore reserves and an adequate analysis of the technical, administrative,
financial, economic, and market aspects of the project. To secure its
credits the SMM enterprises would include the mining concession, whenever
possible, along with other collaterals and guarantees as may be required.



- 29 -
2.67      FMNM intends to promote operations with private SMM enterprises
primarily in three ways. First, through increases in credits to existing SMM.
Second, by developing regional beneficiation plants to offer upgrading facili-
ties to the SMM's minerals on a 'maquila' basis, i.e., for a processing fee or
in some cases to market end-products for them. The 'maquila' charges at each
plant will be set at levels that will cover full capital and operating costs
at full capacity. Third, FMNM intends to complement CFM's laboratory facilities,
as needed, by providing specialized equipment for analysis, determination and
testing of non-metallic minerals.
2.68      FMNM will continue to participate in the equity of enterprises
engaged in the mining or processing of non-metallic minerals, whenever private
initiative and financing is insufficient for the formation or expansion of an
SMM enterprise, or if the mineral produced or the region in which it is
located is of strategic importance. In line with its original objectives,
FMNM will continue assisting ejido communities. Whenever feasible, FMNM would
encourage and help the ejido communities to set up mining operations, through
provision of credit and technical assistance. However, such loans and assist-
ance be considered only on the basis of adequate project and credit evaluations.
C. Consejo de Recursos Minerales
Background and Objectives
2.69      CRM was created by a decree in December 1957, as the decentral-
ized government agency in charge of geological studies and mining exploration.
The objectives of CRM as spelled out in the Mining Law 1/ include: (a) carry-
ing out geological surveys, mining exploration and valuation of the mineral
resources at the regional level as well as of specific mineral prospects;
(b) advising the government on the mineral areas which should constitute
"National Mining Reserves," granting of concessions on such areas, technical
or legal matters related to the exploration, exploitation and preservation
of mineral resources and to the setting of national mining policy; and
(c) coordinating its own work with that of other public entities engaged in
geological and related scientific studies and research, and preparing geological
and mining summaries.
2.70      By mid-1978, the CRM received instructions from SEPAFIN to concentrate
its efforts and resources increasingly toward evaluative (or project oriented)
geology with special emphasis on the small and medium mining sector rather
than regional geological projects. A substantial share of CRM's staff and
financial resources is currently devoted to technical and financial assistance
to SMM enterprises through geological studies and mining exploration.
1/   "Ley Reglamentaria" of Article No. 27.



- 30 -
Organization and Staffing
2.71      CRM's executive head is its Director General, who is responsible
to the board of directors comprised of SEPAFIN (3 representatives), Ministry
of Commerce, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Programming and Budgeting,
and the Directors General of Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), NAFINSA, and CFM.
The Minister of National Patrimony and Industrial Development acts as the
chairman and assigns a secretary to assist the board of directors. Annex 12
includes an indicative organization chart of CRM. CRM's operations are
directed from its head office in Mexico but three-quarters of its personnel
work out of 27 regional offices distributed throughout the country.
2.72      CRM's present Director General, Mr. Guillermo P. Salas, is a very
experienced and highly regarded geologist. Its present staff of 870 include:
336 geologists, 94 other professionals, 195 technicians, and 245 administra-
tive and support staff. The majority of CRM's professional staff are young
(averaging about 30 years) with only a small core of older experienced
geologists, reflecting the situation existing throughout the mining sector
in Mexico. CRM's salary levels are controlled by the government (unlike
CFM's and FMNM's), which tends to contribute to a relatively high turnover
of promising professionals who join private and public sector enterprises,
particularly PEMEX. This situation may be improved in future as salary levels
are now under review. However, the general shortage of qualified geologists
will likely continue to affect the capability of CRM in assessing large scale
and complex technical problems, as it can only partly be alleviated through
the use of expatriate and local consultants as well as through cooperation
with international agencies or through bilateral agreements.
2.73      Nevertheless, the lack of adequate numbers of experienced profes-
sionals does not appear to have hampered significantly CRM's capacity to
technically appraise and assist SMM projects. In fact, these areas of
work involve the tasks best performed by their younger geologists, namely,
field work (drifting, trenching and drilling), data analysis, junior geologist
evaluation and technical assistance to small miners. With the increased
accent on SMM operations, CRM anticipates an expansion in the number of
proje!Cts to assist SMM enterprises and recognizes the need for training its
junior geological staff. In this connection, CRM foresees that the avail-
ability of adequate numbers of senior geological staff to train the younger
geologists may pose a constraint to its expansion plans. During negotiations
satisfactory arrangements for a suitable training program for CRM's geological
staff, including at least one training course for CRM's geological staff during
each of the years 1980 and 1981, have been confirmed.
Operttions
2.74      Regional exploration and general geological services.  An important
part of CRM's responsibilities is its role as Mexico's national geological
service, under which it carries out regional (non-project oriented) geological
work and special services to the government. Included in these are regional
or aereal geological surveys oriented to mapping and determining the general
geological qualities of large areas, often without specific targets. As part



- 31 -
of its regional exploration objectives, CRM also launches special programs,
from time to time, for search for specific minerals considered to be of
strategic importance (e.g., iron, coal and sulfur) or for import substitu-
tion of minerals in short supply in Mexico, such as nickel, chrome, asbestos,
tin, bauxite and potash. CRM considers that exploration for tin, asbestos and
bauxite is currently of high priority. CRM also undertakes some special
projects for the state for exploration of promising areas. If such efforts
are successful, the mines are turned over to CFM (as the government's agent)
for development and operation.
2.75      Evaluative exploration.  CRM offers, mostly to small and medium
sized mining enterprises, financing for their exploratory work, with or without
a risk-sharing feature, and in many such cases it also undertakes the explora-
tion and geological work for them. When a request for financial assistance
for exploratory activities is received by CRM from a client enterprise, CRM
offers the client financing either of a risk-sharing type or in the form of
secured loans.
2.76      The risk-sharing type contracts are applicable in cases where the
client enterprise is unable to assume the full financial risk of exploration
or does not have adequate loan securities. Under this type of contract,
the client pays in advance 10% of the initially estimated cost of exploration
and CRM agrees to cover the remainder (up to 90%) of the costs. In case no
economically exploitable deposits are found, CRM absorbs the share of the
costs financed by it and writes off the loan. On the other hand, if the
exploration is successful the client is required to pay back the amount
financed by CRM and an additional 20% premium, plus interest at an annual rate
of 15%; 1/ in addition, clients with succesful prospects would be required
over a period of up to 10 years to pay royalties ranging from 1-3% of the net
value of the production from the deposits discovered, as the revenues start
flowing in.  Thus, in effect, CRM operates a type of "exploration fund"
through which the risk of exploration can be shared among a large group of
client companies.
2.77      In practice, CRM has been able to keep losses on its "'risk-sharing"
contracts to a minimum, as only promising projects are accepted and CRM re-
serves the right to discontinue the work under the contract if the initial
results are not encouraging. In 1978, CRM signed 25 risk-sharing contracts
for evaluative exploration, for a total financing of Mex$28 million. In
comparison, during the first 9 months of 1979, CRM had signed 43 such contracts
for a total amount of Mex$77 million, i.e., a substantial increase over the
previous year.
2.78      The exploration contracts with secured loans are applicable in cases
where the client enterprises have adequate guarantees to offer as loan secu-
rity and are willing to bear the full exploration risk. The principal and
1/   The effective interest rates to the client enterprises on such financing
is estimated to be in the range of 20-30% (without counting royalty
payments) depending on the maturity of the exploration contracts which
normally ranges between 6 months and 2 years.



- 32 -
interest payment arrangements in these cases are identical to those under
the risk-sharing type contracts, but in these cases the client enterprises
are required to pay back the principal (plus "bonus") and interest whether or
not the exploration contract results in a success. Also, no royalties are
charged since there is no risk-sharing feature.
2.79      Advisory services and technical assistance.  CRM acts as an adviser
and consultant to the Mexican Government on matters relating to mineral
resources, national reserves, and in formulating the national mining and
minerals policy.  Its 27 regional offices offer free geological advice to
the SlMM in their districts.  Finally, CRM offers to SMM enterprises valuable
laboratory services for assaying and for mineralogical study but these appear
to be overloaded with CRM's own work and require expansion. As a promotional
measure, CRM's charges to the SMM client enterprises for the laboratory
services are set to cover on the average only the variable operating costs of
the laboratory.
Project Evaluation
2.80      Technical or commercial feasibility studies are relegated to the
mine owner or CFM and FMNM, who help set the targets prior to the exploration
program. When unsuccessful projects are generally stopped prior to completion
of the whole program; therefore, CRM evaluations need not be as precise as
those for mine operations. The final evaluation after exploration, namely,
evaLuation of ore reserves, seems to be well within the capabilities of CRM,
whose staff is adequately prepared, especially for the exploration activities
of S'MM.
Future Operating Strategy
2.81      During loan negotiations, CRM confirmed that it intends to continue
its present operating pattern but with increasing emphasis on to assistance
to S'MM.  This is reflected in the expected increase in SMM's share of CRM's
total annual budget from 19.5% in 1979 to 30% in 1982. 1/ CRM also expects
increases in its other activities, including regional exploration, although at
a slower rate than the SMM assistance operations.  CRM intends to continue to
expand its operations of executing and financing contracts for the evaluative
expLoration of specific mineral prospects (para. 2.77). CRM also expects to
colLaborate closely with CFM and FMNM in providing support services and
assistance in promotional activities, and part of the expected increase in
CRM's operations is likely to result from such cooperation. To cover its
additional workload, CRM expects to increase as necessary the number of
geologists and technicians as well as the support services such as laboratory
and exploration equipment.
1/   CRM expects its total annual budget to grow at an average annual rate of
10-20% in real terms.



- 33 -
Financial Position and Resources
2.82      CRM finances its operations mainly using budgetary resources, and
to a lesser extent through income derived from interest on loans and royalty
payments. For 1979 it is estimated that CRM's income would account for
about 16% of its annual budget. The budget for 1980 is expected to increase
by about 50% over 1979, from Mex$611 million (about US$27 million equivalent)
to Mex$922 milion (about US$40 million) with the estimated breakdown for 1979
and 1980 is as follows:
Amount ( Mex$ '000)
1979       1980
Regional exploration 1/               362,360    409,400
SMM assistance activities             157,350    300,000
Other activities                       92,000    213,000
Total               611,700    922,400
A substantial portion of the 1980 budget will be spent on SMM projects under
the investment account which itself has been growing at approximately 20% per
year in constant terms.
Procurement and Auditing
2.83      As in the case of CFM and FMNM (paras. 2.39 and 2.64), procurement
policies are set by law. Purchases have to meet government standard prices and
quotations must be requested from at least three suppliers. CRM's accounts
are audited annually by external auditors satisfactory to SPP. Recent audit
reports of CRM, while finding the overall accounts satisfactory, made several
operational suggestions for improvements in the accounting and control systems.
Some suggestions have been adopted while others should be implemented during
1980.
III. THE PROJECT AND THE PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Background and Objectives of the Project
3.01      Recognizing the potential of the SMM sector for employment generation
and export expansion--and the sector's lack of access to adequate financial
and technical assistance--the Mexican Government has expressed interest in
mounting a broadly based and integrated program for SMM development, called
the 'Special Complementary Program for SMM Development' (Special Program or
PECAM). The Special Program aims at (i) exploiting the full potential of
Mexico's mining resources and reversing the sector's low growth trend of the
1/   Including exploration for specific metallic and non-metallic minerals
such as iron, coal, phosphate, bauxite and asbestos.



- 34 -
1970s (para. 1.01), (ii) generating employment, especially among the relatively
low income groups, and (iii) activating some of the least developed regions of
Mexico. Since most of the larger mines in Mexico were discovered as a result
of the exploratory activities of smaller units, the development of SMM is
expected to trigger the growth of the mining sector as a whole in the long
run. In view of the potential of SMM in Mexico and the recent favorable
legislative and fiscal reforms, the Mexican authorities give high priority to
the Special Program.
3.02      Following the initial expression of interest in the first half of
1978 by the government and CFM in possible Bank support for SMM development,
various Bank missions worked closely with the concerned Mexican agencies in
developing a specific project which was identified in October/November 1978.
A Bank mining sector mission in February 1979 reviewed, among other things,
the basic potential of SMM and the quality of available institutional support.
In June 1979, a Bank mission visited Mexico to continue preparation work and
the project was appraised in September 1979. Negotiations for the proposed
Bank loan took place in Washington during February 1980.
ProLect Description
3.03      The proposed project would form the initial phase of the Special
Program extending through its the first 2-1/2 to 3 years. The project would
provide financial, technical and other assistance to SMM enterprises to help
expand their mine development and exploration activities, and would strengthen
the institutional capabilities and technical facilities of the local enti-
ties supporting SMM. It would include the following components:
A.   Credit and Equipment Leasing Subprogram comprising:
(a) financing through CFM and FMNM of a program of fixed
asset loans, and purchase of machinery and equipment
to be offered for long-term leasing (with option to
purchase) to SMM enterprises for mine preparation,
extraction, and concentration/beneficiation of minerals;
(b) financing through CFM and FMNM of permanent working
capital loans to complement fixed asset loans and
long-term equipment leasing;
(c)  financing through CFM and FMNM of credits for evaluative
exploration (ore reserve development loans) of both
the risk-sharing (para. 2.76) and secured (para. 2.78)
types;
B. Regional Beneficiation Plants Subprogram comprising:
(a) the construction by CFM and FMNM of regional beneficia-
tion plants to provide access to economical mineral
concentration/benefication facilities for small mining
enterprises;



- 35 -
C.   Technical Assistance Subprogram comprising:
(a)  expansion of the capacity of CRM to provide assistance
to SMM enterprises through (i) acquisition of additional
exploration equipment by CRM as required to assist SMM
enterprises in exploration and development of their mines;
(ii) expansion of CRM's mineral laboratory to facilitate
its chemical, metallurgical and other analyses; and
(iii) provision of expert assistance, as needed, and
organization of suitable training programs for the technical
personnel of CRM on field procedures and effective use of the
various geological, geophysical and geochemical techniques;
(b) technical assistance to CFM and FMNM through: (i) training
of their professional staff in the technical, financial,
administrative and marketing evaluation of mining feasibility
studies and project proposals, supervision of SMM projects,
and portfolio control (para. 2.26); and (ii) expansion of
the laboratory facilities of CFM and FMNM, including estab-
lishment of about four regional 'bench scale' laboratories to
serve better the needs of the client SMM enterprises outside
Mexico City (para. 2.20);
(c) technical advice and laboratory assistance to be
provided to client enterprises by CFM, CRM and FMNM in
conjunction with their financial assistance. 1/
3.04      The project would involve a substantial institution bulding effort.
In addition to the more direct technical assistance to the institutions, it
would help CRM, CFM and FMNM establish more clearly the focus of their activi-
ties to support SMM, improve their planning capabilities, streamline operating
policies and strengthen the procedures for project selection, evaluation and
follow-up. It would also ensure consistency of policies and procedures among
three institutions and help coordinate their SMM development efforts.
Eligible Enterprises
3.05      New or existing "small" and "medium" sized mining (and related)
enterprises using definition presented in para. 1.09 would be eligible for
support under the project. For the purposes of this definition, all enter-
prises majority-owned and/or controlled by a single private or government
industrial or financial group would be considered to be related enterprises
and this limit would ensure that financing would be extended only to enter-
prises that are not likely to have adequate access to alternative sources of
financing; it would also imply that enterprises which are majority-owned by
CFM or FMNM, with the exception of beneficiation plants for SMM enterprises,
would not be eligible for financing under the project, as these enterprises
are not likely to experience significant problems in obtaining the required
financing. CFM and FMNM intend to apply uniform criteria for selecting and
evaluating the financial and economic viability of subprojects, regardless of
the ownership structure of the client enterprises. The physical capacity of
regional beneficiation plants financed under the Special Program would not
exceed 250 tons/day of crude minerals processed.
1/   It was confirmed during loan negotiations that a report would be prepared
and provided to the Bank about once in every six months summarizing and
justifying the expansion plans for the physical facilities under the
technical assistance component (laboratory facilities and exploration
equipment) and the nature and type of equipment proposed, in the light
of the demand and needs of SMM enterprises.



- 36 -
3.06      In order to avoid unduly large variations in the set of eligible
enterprises in terms of their technology, sophistication and physical capacity
steTmning from fluctuations in mineral prices, the upper limit on production
value for medium scale mining (currently about US$6.6 million equivalent)
would be reviewed annually and revised, if necessary, to reflect changes in
international prices of a pre-selected basket of minerals. For this purpose,
an acceptable basket comprising the most important metallic and non-metallic
minerals has already been defined. The detailed composition of the basket,
the reference prices and the adjustment mechanism to be used for the periodic
updating are included in Annex 8. These criteria have been confirmed at
negotiatons and would be included in the Operating Guidelines of CFM and FMNM
for implementing the Special Program (Annexes 3 and 4).
Maximum Size and Terms of Financing
3.07      The maximum amount of financing (including Bank and Mexican counter-
parit resources) to any individual subproject would be (i) Mex$15 million for
fixesd asset loans to develop new or existing mines; (ii) Mex$30 million for
fixed asset loans for construction by SMM enterprises of new or expansion of
existing beneficiation plants; (iii) Mex$5 million for the value of equipment
provided under the long-term equipment leasing with option to buy; (iv) Mex$10
million for ore reserve development loans; (v) Mex$4 million for loans for
permanent (structural) working capital; and (vi) Mex$40 million for construc-
tion of CFM's and FMNM's regional beneficiation plants. In addition, total
financial assistance to a single enterprise, or a group of related enterprises,
would be limited to Mex$50 million (Annexes 3 to 5).
3.08      The maximum amortization period would normally be 8 years (including
up to 2 years of grace) for fixed asset loans, and 3 years for permanent
working capital loans. Maximum terms of equipment lease contracts would be
5 years and may include grace periods of up to six months. Lending terms to
CMF and FMNM for construction of their regional beneficiation plants would be
up to 12 years including 3 years of grace. These limits, which would be
incorporated in the Operating Guidelines of CFM and FMNM for implementing
the Special Program, have been set on the basis of a review of CFM's and
FMNM's past experience, and the expected future financing needs of the target
enterprises. Given the experimental nature of the Special Program, flexibility
would be retained to adjust the maximum amounts and terms of financing in
exceptional cases justified by adequate project cost and cash flow analysis.
The recipients of CFM's and FMNM's fixed asset loans would be required to
finance at least 15% of the total project cost with their own resources,
except that in special cases, this requirement may be waived or relaxed by
CFM or FMNM on a case-by-case basis to take account of the special charact-
eristics of a project and/or client enterprise, provided, however, that the
project's cash flow is still acceptable (Annexes 3 and 4). 1/
1/   This exceptional partial waiver of the 15% rule is likely to be particu-
larly applicable in the case of ejidos financed by FMNM, which may have
no financial resources of their own before starting the mining operations.
This partial waiver is to be applied only in cases where proven mineral
reserves have substantial value to cover for reduction in equity partici-
pation.



- 37 -
Onlending Interest Rates and Leasing Terms
3.09      Client enterprises receiving subloans from CFM or FMNM would have
the option of choosing between peso-denominated and foreign currency
denominated subloans. All peso-denominated subloans made by CFM and FMNM
under the project would bear a floating interest rate (to the final benefi-
ciaries) of between 1.5 and 2.0 percentage points above the index of the average
cost of funds, excluding savings and checking accounts, to Mexican private and mixed
mixed banks (ACF index). 1/   The interest rates would be reviewed by
SEPAFIN and adjusted as necessary, at least semi-annually, to reflect any
movements in the ACF index to the nearest one-quarter of a percentage point.
3.10      Subloans denominated in foreign currencies are expected to be
requested only by the relatively large enterprises within the eligibility
limits. It was confirmed through a letter from the Borrower that onlending
interest rates on dollar denominated subloans, which are expected to account
for the overwhelming majority of subloans made in currencies other than
Mexican pesos, would also be floating and would be at least one percentage
point above the six-month LIBOR rates. Onlending interest rates on subloans
denominated in other foreign currencies would be set with similar margins
above a comparable international market indicator of interest rates for loans
in the respective currencies. The Government and the Bank would review the
interest rates for foreign currency subloans from time to time and this
minimum rate would be adjusted in the light of market conditions.
3.11      The long-term leasing contracts with option to purchase signed by
CFM and FMNM would be denominated in either Mexican pesos or US dollars.
The monthly lease payments and prices for the purchase option would be set
to ensure effective yields consistent with the corresponding interest rates
on subloans.
3.12      CFM's and FMNM's regional beneficiation plants to be built under
the proposed project would be expected to charge 'maquila' fees or margins
between mineral purchase and sales prices sufficient to earn, over their full
life, an internal financial rate of return at least equal to the interest rate
payable by client enterprises on subloans, after allowing for operation and
maintenance expenses of such plants. The charges would be reviewed periodi-
cally and adjusted, if necessary, in order to satisfy this criterion.
Institutional Arrangements and Program Coordination
3.13      In order to coordinate all the activities contemplated under the
proposed SMM development program and to ensure that subprojects meet with the
objectives of the program, a Coordinating Committee has been established
within SEPAFIN, comprised of the Subsecretary of Mines and Energy (to act as
the chairman) and five other members representing the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit, SEPAFIN, CFM, FMNM, CRM and NAFINSA. The Coordinating Committee
has adopted a set of operating regulations governing its activities in connec-
tion with the implementation of the Special Program, specifying the Committee's
coordinating functions, and subproject review and other administrative proce-
dures, in the light of the overall objectives of the Special Program (Annex 5).
1/   See Annex 6, for details of this index.



- 38 -
These operating regulations have been discussed and agreed upon during loan
negotiations. SEPAFIN confirmed through a letter that the Bank would be
promptly notified of any significant changes contemplated in the operating
regulations of the Coordinating Committee and would be given an opportunity
to comiment on such changes.
3.14      According to its operating regulations, the Coordinating Committee
would review in detail all financing requests in excess of Mex$ 10 million,
all subprojects for regional beneficiation plants and all credits to subsi-
diaries and affiliates of CFM or FMNM. It may also review, on a sampling
basis, other projects submitted for financing under the Special Program in
order to monitor and ensure adequate project evaluation by the implementing
agencies. In its review process, the committee would be assisted by a small
secretariat of 3-4 experienced professionals, to be created within SEPAFIN,
reporting directly to the Director General for Analysis of Projects within
that ministry. The secretariat is expected to include a geologist, a mining
engineer, an economist/financial analyst, and possibly an expert on benefi-
ciation plants and equipment. Additional outside specialists would be
contracted whenever necessary--for example, to review subprojects for which
the secretariat might not have the appropriate specialists. Members of the
secretariat would also be available for technical or administrative advice,
if necessary, to CFM, FMNM and CRM concerning the overall program or indivi-
dual subprojects.
Projected Overall Needs and Financing
3.15      Based on demand projections and cost estimates from the three
implementing agencies, during the initial 2-1/2 - 3 years phase of the Special
Program, total financial resources of about Mex$2.46 billion (about US$107
million equivalent) would be required. The expected distribution of the
program resources among the different categories of assistance ('subprograms')
and among the three implementing agencies is summarized in Tables 3.1 and 3.2
below. The estimates of program resources allocated to the various components
are based on (i) projections of demand for the various kinds of assistance,
including technical assistance components, and cost and time schedules for
the construction of regional beneficiation plants; 1/ (ii) the implementing
agencies' plans to increase their staff to process a higher volume of opera-
tions; and (iii) a balance between the amounts of resources allocated to the
different program components. Taking into account contributions of the
sponsors to the individual subprojects, which are expected to cover about 20%
of the total subprojects costs (including fixed assets and working capital),
the total investments supported under this first phase of the Special Program
would amount to about Mex$2.81 billion (about US$122 million equivalent).
The Proposed Bank Loan
3.16      To help finance the proposed Special Program for SMM development as
outlined above, the Mexican authorities requested a Bank loan of US$40 million,
which would be committed in 2 1/2 - 3 years and disbursed in 3 1/2 - 4 years.
1/   Six or seven plants by CFM and three by FMNM based on the expected
demand/need for such services.



- 39 -
The loan would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA) (the government
development bank), acting as the agent of the government. The tentative
allocation of Bank funds among the various components of the project as shown
in Tables 3.1 and 3.2, is based on the disbursement percentages proposed in
para. 3.18, which reflect the approximate foreign exchange content of the
various expenditure categories. 1/ Counterpart local resources required to
complement the proposed Bank loan would be made available from the budgetary
resources of the federal government, at the estimated proportions shown in
Table 3.1. Annex 14, T-23 provides a detailed breakdown, by year and project
component, of the Bank and local resources to be provided under the project.
3.17      The proposed loan of US$40 million would be used to finance:
(i) 130-140 subloans through CFM and FMNM for financing machinery, equipment
and civil works; (ii) 150-200 long-term equipment leases with option to
purchase; 2/ (iii) the construction of about 10 regional beneficiation
plants; and (iv) expansion of the capacity of the project's executing
agencies to provide technical assistance to SMM, through the purchase of
required laboratory equipment by CFM, FMNM and CRM, and the purchase of
exploration equipment by CRM to expand its exploration assistance to SMM
enterprises. The loan would finance about 37% of the total resources to be
made available for the Special Program for SMM development over the commit-
ment period of the loan, and an estimated 30% of the total cost of the
investments supported through the Program. The terminal date for submission
of requests for financing would be June 30, 1983 and the closing date would
be June 30, 1984 (Annex 1).
Disbursement
3.18      Disbursement of the proposed Bank loan would be made to cover up
to 45% of the cost of machinery, equipment and the related spare parts, and
25% of the cost of construction and civil works, including for mine development.
These percentages represent the estimated average foreign exchange content of
the respective expenditure categories. 3/ Only expenditures made no more than
180 days prior to the date of receipt by the Bank of the corresponding finan-
cing requests would be eligible for reimbursement under the proposed loan.
1/   As indicated in the tables, no Bank financing would be provided for
working capital credits and ore reserve development (evaluative explora-
tion) credits, since the proportion of the foreign exchange costs involved
in these categories is very low and could be financed from local resources.
2/   Purchase of equipment for leasing purposes will follow the same rigorous
procedures applied in the purchase of fixed assets by CFM and FMNM.
3/   The disbursement percentage for machinery and equipment is based on he
estimated distribution of the particular categories of machinery and
equipment to be financed among directly imported (5%), off-the-shelf (10%)
and domestically manufactured (85%) goods, and the corresponding esti-
mated foreign exchange contents.



Table 3.1:  ALLOCATION OF PROGRAM RESOURCES AMONG SUBPROGRAMS
(All amounts in millions of Iex$, unless otherwise specifieu)
Total          %                        2
Program       Total       World   Distribution
Financing    Program        Bank    of Bank funds   Government
Subprogram
1. Credits
Fixed Assets                    1,030                        412                          618
Working capital                   103                         _                           103
Ore reserve development            80                         -                            80
Subtotal Credits                  1,213             49         412            45           -ll
2.  Equipment Leasing                     658            27          296           32             362
3.  Regional Beneficiation Plants         354            14          113           12             241
4. Technical Assistance
Laboratory Equipment              131                         59                           72
Exploration Equipment              89                         40                           49
Training, Consultants, etc.        15                         -                            15
Subtotal Technical Assistance    235                10        _9j9           11             13k
TOTAL Mesx                      2,460            100         920          100           1 540
TOTAL US$ equivalnt(illion)  107.0                          40.0
(at 1 us$ - 23.0 Mex$)
PROPORTION OF TOTAL               100%                       37.4%                        62.6%
Table 3.2: ALLOCATION OF PROGRAM RESOURCES AMONG EXECUTING AGENCIES
(All amounts in Millions of Mex5)
Bank                Bank
Total           Financing               X
CFM
(1) Credits
Fixed assets                           785              314                  40.0
Working capital                         79               -                    0
Ore reserve development                 70               -                    n
Subtotal                           934             314                   3336
(2)  Equipment Leasing                          520              234                  45.0
(3)  Regional Beneficiation Plants              238               76                  32.0
(4) Technical Assistance
Laboratory equipment                    69               31                  45,0
Training, etc.                            5               -                    0
Subtotal                            74               31                  41.9
TOTAL                     1,766              655                  37.1
FMNM
(1) Credits
Fixed assets                           245               98                  40.0
Working capital                          24              -                     0
Ore reserve development                  10              -                    0
Subtotal                           279               98                  35.1
(2)  Equipment Leasing                          138               62                  45.0
(3)  Regional Beneficiation Plants              116               37                  32.0
(4) Technical Assistance
Laboratory Equiplment & trataing         9               4                  45.0
TOTAL                        542              201                  37.1
Technical Assistance
Laboratory Equipment                              53              24                  45.0
Exploration Equipment                            89               40                  45.0
Technical Specialists, training, etc.             10                                   0
TOTAL                       152               64                  42.1
OVERALL TOTAL                   2,460              920                  37.4
US5 equivalent (million)         107.0             40.0                37.4



- 40 -
The proposed extension of the Bank's normal 90-day limit under DFC projects
would be justified in view of the complex institutional arrangements involving
three implementing agencies and a two-stage review of subprojects by the indi-
vidual agencies and by the Coordinating Committee of the Special Program.
Retroactive Financing
3.19      Expenditures of up to US$1.5 million made between February 1, 1980
and the date of loan signing would be eligible for financing as part of the
proposed loan, subject to all other conditions as described above. The
expected expenditures prior to the date of loan signing have been reviewed
during loan negotiations and would form an integral part of the efforts being
undertaken under the Special Program.
Channeling of the Resources, and Repayment and Capitalization Arrangements
3.20      Bank resources would be transferred by NAFINSA to the three executing
agencies (CFM, FMNM and CRM) as required and would remain in the respective
institutions permanently. The government would repay the Bank loan and would
also service the interest charges on the loan through NAFINSA (and bear the
associated foreign exchange risk), thus capitalizing CFM, FMNM and CRM as the
Bank loan is disbursed. The resources thus accumulating in the implementing
agencies would be used for purposes similar to those under the SMM develop-
ment project. During the negotiations, it was also confirmed that all the
counterpart resources provided to the three executing agencies for the various
parts of the project would also be retained permanently in the respective
agencies in the form of capital.
3.21      In view of the above arrangements, and given the fact that the
government, rather than the individual executing agencies, would assume the
responsiblity for repayment of the Bank loan, the loan would be repaid accord-
ing to a fixed 17-year amortization schedule including 4 years of grace.
Procurement and Auditing
3.22      A wide variety of domestically produced mining equipment is avail-
able to the Mexican mining sector, much of it at reasonable prices (and
quality) compared with international procurement. Small compressors, for
example, which represent a high proportion of components required by small
mining enterprises, are produced and sold in Mexico and sell for prices that
are only about 5-10% above those for foreign-made compressors of similar
quality. With the exception of drills, most of the main items used by
medium-sized mining firms--such as larger compressors, flotation equipment,
ball mills, pumps, and crushers--are produced and available in Mexico at
prices which are about 10-15% higher than those for similar items produced
abroad. Even the domestically produced drills, which are on the average
25-30% higher in price than imported drills, are expected to become more
competitive as some of the newly established, less competitive, industries
increase their scale of operations and efficiency. 1/
1/ Percentage price differences refer to comparisons with FOB plant prices of
international suppliers.



- 41 -
3.23      Procurement procedures for goods and services financed under the
proposed loan would follow the procedures customary to Bank IDF-type projects,
with the three implementing agencies (CFM, FMNM and CRM) having the responsi-
bility for ensuring the competitiveness, in price and quality, of items
procured and their suitablility for the purpose intended. Subloan contracts
signed by CFM and FMNM with the client enterprises would contain provisions to
ensure satisfactory procurement procedures along these lines. In the case of
goods purchased by the executing agencies for their own account (i.e., for
leasing operations, regional beneficiation plants and laboratory and explora-
tion equipment) in packages of goods and civil works of US$1 million or more,
international competitive bidding according to Bank guidelines would be
required. Individual packages of goods or civil works of US$500,000 or more
would also be subject to international competitive bidding. Local suppliers
woul(d be entitled to a 15 percent margin of preference or the applicable
import duties and taxes, whichever is lower. Packages estimated to be less
than these limits would be procured on the basis of the Government's procure-
ment procedures, which have been reviewed by the Bank and include comparative
price and quality evaluation of at least three bids. Given the relatively
smalL size of the individual items as well as of the total procurement involved
under these components, 1/ the relatively efficient domestic manufacturing
sector of mining equipment, stringent government procedures which ensure
that no public agency shall purchase equipment at prices higher than those
posted by the manufacturers with the government, and the active participation
of tlhe client SMM enterprises in the selection of most pieces of equipment for
leasing, the above procurement procedures are considered adequate to ensure
satisfactory price and quality competitiveness.
3.24      Satisfactory arrangements would be made for full annual audits of
CFM, FMNM and CRM by reputable auditors following accounting principles
acceptable to the Bank. It was confirmed during loan negotiations that the
audits of CFM and FMNM would show separately the financial accounts of the
individual regional beneficiation plants.
Approval Limits
3.25      Prior Bank approval would be required for (i) the first three subloan
proposals for mine development projects and the first three other subloan
proposals processed each calendar year by CFM and by FMNM (that is, a total of
twelve subloans per year); (ii) all subloan proposals involving US$400,000 or more
of Bank resources; (iii) all subloans to enterprises in which CFM and FMNM have a
controlling interest; (iv) the first five equipment leasing proposals in each
calendar year from CFM and from FMNM (that is, a total of 10 per year) requiring
US$50,000 or more in Bank resources; and (v) all financing requests for regional
beneficiation plants. Under these procedures, it is expected that between one-
quarter and one-third of the number of subprojects financed under the proposed
loan, involving 45-50% of the total Bank financing, would be subject to prior
Bank approval.
1/ In comparison with the average sizes of procurement contracts under Mexican
projects and the total procurement of CFM and FMNM.



- 42 -
Project Benefits and Risks
3.26      The project is expected to help significant numbers of SMM enter-
prises to operate efficiently, and develop on an economically viable basis an
important part ^f Mexico's mining resources, whose exploration and development
have received inadequate attention in the past. As many as 300-400 SMM enter-
prises can be expected to benefit directly or indirectly from the proposed
project. Incremental mining output of about US$250-280 million equivalent per
year may be expected to be generated through investments supported under the
program. SMM development is expected to have a large favorable impact on
the development of the potential of the mining sector as a whole, particularly
since SMM enterprises have traditionally been responsible for the discovery
of most of the large mining deposits in Mexico and have provided the base
for the development of large mining companies.
3.27      As many as 14,000-16,000 incremental jobs are expected to be gener-
ated as a result of investments supported through the proposed project, many
of which for members of the low income groups. The median investment cost per
new job created is expected to be of the order of US$7,000 equivalent for
small mining enterprises and US$12,000 equivalent for medium-sized mining
enterprises. Because small and medium sized mines are distributed over a wide
geographical area, the project would also help the development of some of the
least developed regions of Mexico. SMM development would also generate
significant amounts of exports, which in recent years amounted to 40-50% of
the value of mineral production.
3.28      Finally, the project would support CFM, FMNM and CRM in focusing
their activities to promote and support SMM, streamline their operating
policies, improve planning, and strengthen their procedures for project
selection, evaluation and follow-up. Through these it would further the
integrated development of the SMM sector in Mexico.
3.29      The project involves two kinds of risks.  Firstly, given that it
represents a major new effort in the Mexican mining sector, the implementing
agencies may not be able to increase their financial assistance to small and
medium-scale mining enterprises as quickly as forecast because of insufficient
manpower (arising from difficulties in recruiting and training adequate
numbers of professional staff) or other institutional constraints. However,
in view of the steps being taken by the government to prepare the agencies
concerned, the support expected to be provided by the Coordinating Committee
to the implementing agencies and the specific commitments of the agencies in
connection with the project, this risk is considered relatively low. The
second is a market risk: if international prices for minerals should drop
sharply, demand for investment financing under the project might be reduced.
In view of the broad range of minerals mined by the Mexican SMM sector, and of
the generally favorable outlook for most minerals, this risk seems acceptable;
a majority of the SMM projects reviewed in Mexico are likely to be financially
viable even if the world mineral prices were to fall by as much as 30-50% on
the average, from their current level.



- 43 -
IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01         During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained, or understand-
inlgs reached:
(i)  with the Mexican Government and NAFINSA on:
(a) the loan amount and the provision of the required
counterpart resources (para. 3.16); and
(b) arrangements for channeling the proceeds of the Bank
loan and the counterpart resources, repayment of the
Bank loan, capitalization of the executing agencies,
and retroactive financing (paras. 3.19 to 3.21).
(ii) with the Mexican Government, NAFINSA (in its own capacity
and as the trustee for FMNM), CFM and CRM on:
(a) eligible enterprises (para. 3.05), and expenditures
eligible for financing under the Special Program and
under the Bank loan (paras. 3.03, 3.16 and 3.18);
(b) institutional arrangements for implementing the
project (paras. 3.13 and 3.14);
(c) draft operating regulations of the Coordinating Committee
of the Special Program (para. 3.13 and Annex 5);
(d) onlending interest rates, effective yields of rental
contracts, and terms for the various categories of
subprojects, and criteria for fixing the tariffs/margins
on the regional plants; (para. 3.09 to 3.12);
(e)  satisfactory auditing arrangements for CFM, FMNM, and
CR1I (para. 3.24); and
(f) procedures for disbursements of the Bank
loan (para. 3.18).
(iii)  with CFM, NAFINSA acting as the trustee for FMNM, and CRM on:
(a) the allocation of the Bank loan and the counterpart
resources among the different institutions and project
components (paras. 3.15 and 3.16);
(b) draft Operating Guidelines of CFM (para. 2.32) and FMNM
(para. 2.65) for implementing the Special Program;
(c) maximum limits on the amounts and terms of financing
provided for the various subproject categories (paras. 3.07
and 3.08);



- 44 -
(d) subprojects requiring prior Bank approval (para. 3.25);
(e) satisfactory training arrangements for the project
evaluation staff of CFM, FMNM and CRM (paras. 2.26,
2.58 and 2.73); and
(f) satisfactory arrangements for procurement (para. 3.23).
4.02      Formal approval of the Operating Guidelines of CFM and FMNM for
implementing the Special Program, by CFM's board and FMNM's technical committee,
would be special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
4.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$40.0 million with a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace on
conditions as outlined in Chapter III.






-45 -                           ANNEX1
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal Year                  Disbursements in                 Cumulative
and Quarter (Ending Date)                  Quarter                   Disbursements
1980/81
March 31, 1981                          1.0                            1.0
June 30, 1981                           1.5                            2.5
1981/82
September 30, 1981                      2.5                            5.0
December 31, 1981                       2.5                            7.5
March 31, 1982                          3.5                           11.0
June 30, 1982                           3.5                           14.5
1982/83
September 30, 1982                      4.5                          19.0
December 31, 1982                       4.5                          23.5
March 31, 1983                          4.5                          28.0
June 30, 1983 a/                        4.5                          32.5
1983/84
September 30, 1983                      4.0                          36.5
December 31, 1983                       2.0                          38.5
March 31, 1984                          1.0                          39.5
June 30, 1984 b/                        0.5                          40.0
a/ Terminal date for submission of subprojects.
b/ Closing date.
LCPI2
February 1980



- 46 -
M,INEX 2
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Chronology of.Mexican Mining History
Legal and Institutional                         Development of Education and
Development                                    Use of Technology
1532     First mine in Taxco, Guerrero
1535/37  Mint in Mexico
1718     Prohibition to produce mercury
to protect Spanish mines.
1759     Mint in Guanajuato
1777     Foundation of the "Real Tribunal
del Importante Cuerpo de la Miner-
ia" and of the first "Camara Minera"
in Mexico
1783     The King of Spain issues the first   1784 Foundation of the "Real
Mexican Mining Law, the "Reales Or-         Seminario de Mineria"
denanzas para la Direccion, Regi-
men y Gobierno de Importante Cu-       1790 Start of operations of the
erpo de la Mineria"                         Royal Seminary of Mining
First use of mules in the
beneficiation of ores, re-
placing men.
1792 Reorganization of the Royal
Seminary into the "Colegio
de Mineria en Mexico"
1805                   The Mining Tribunal orders
the first steel producing
furnaces to be built
1808     Mints in Durango and in
Zacatecas                              1813 The mining building, latcr
the national school of * ,in-
eering, is inaugurated in Ncxic
1822 First importation of 3team
engines from England for mining
1823     The First Congress of the
Republic allows foreigners
to acquire mining property
1824                   Joint mining ventures with
German and English companies



- 47 -
A.TXFX 2
Picwo 2
1853 Foundation of the "Practical
Mining School" (Escuela Prac-
tica de Minas) in Fresnillo,
Zacatecas
1865/67  Activities of the Scientific
Commission under Maximilian
of Austria
1877 First use of compressed air
for perforation
1884  The Mining Code (Codigo de
Mineria) was issued, a li-
beral law, that resulted in
a number of new minng pro-
jects                            1891  Foundation of the Commission
for Geological Investigation
(predecessor of the Instituto
Geologico)
1909  A new mining law (Ley Minera)
was issued.
Highest level of mining
activity in the history
of Mexico: 31,983 con-
cessions covering 450,371
hectares; 6,987 mines
were initiated. The gold
production reached 41,419
kg that year.
1910-1917                Revolution
1917  Foundation of the Ministry
for Industry, Commerce and
Labor, with its mining and
petroleum departments
1926  Law of the Mining Industry
1930  New Law of the Mining Industry
1939  The Comision de Fo...nto Mi-
nero starts to operate
Up to 1945               Boom in the mining industry,
a result of World War II
1958 Formation of the Consejo de
Recursos no Renovables
1961  New Mexican mining law
"Xexicanization"



- 48 -
TUnEX 2
Pa'Re 3
:1975     New mining law
:1976     Regula:ccns for   plementation
of the law
:1977     New tax law - 9% production tax
for precious, 7% for all other.
mineralsl 4% on 1ron ore and coal.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Guidelines of Comision de Fomento Minero
in Relation to the Special Program
(Draft - Translation)
The purpose of this document is to set forth the operating guidelines
for the developmental activities of Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM) in
relation to the implementation of the Special Complementary Program for Small
and Medium Scale Mining Development (PECAM).
I. Strategy for Development of Small and Medium-Scale Mining (SMM) Development
In furtherance of the Government's policy of encouraging increased
employment, production and productivity in the mining sector, CFM, in
coordination with Fideicomiso Minerales No Metglicos Mexicanos (FMNM) and
Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM), will step up the developmental activities
referred to below to help SMM realize its full potential, through:
(a) the granting of technical and financial assistance, and
(b) the installation or expansion of regional beneficiation
plants and laboratories.
To this end, CFM will continue to expand direct contacts, periodical
seminars and information sessions in order to make more widely known the
opportunities for technical support, credit and other facilities available from
the official mining agencies. In addition, CFM will continue to prepare and
distribute within the sector, brochures on the credit procedures, the appropriate
channels of communication with CRM, FMNM and CFM itself, the services of the
regional beneficiation plants and laboratories and efforts aimed at achieving
access to SMM to financing from credit institutions.
II. Technical Assistance to SMM Enterprises
CFM regards the decentralization of services aimed at promoting the
activities of SMM enterprises as a fundamental element of its operating policy,
and implements it through technical assistance granted by its regional offices
and laboratories.
To this end it will continue to expand its technical support services
for exploration, mining and beneficiation of minerals and on legal, credit,
administrative, marketing and other aspects.
The agency will continue to furnish technical assistance with the
object of encouraging the creation of new mining districts.



50                             ANNEX 3
Page 2
III. Credit Policies
In appraising loan applications, CFM will analyze the feasibility
of the project, basing its study on a production plan supported by satisfactory
quantitative evidence of ore reserves and the related cash-flow projections.
In granting the loans, CFM will require as a minimum the guarantees
prescribed in the Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito (General Law
of Securities and Credit Operations), including, whenever possible, the mining
concession. Fixed assets financed through the credit form part of the collateral.
CFM will seek to have all its clients for fixed asset loans
(refaccionarios) finance part (at least 15%) the cost of their projects using
their own resources, such portion being determined, when appropriate, by means
of an evaluation. As a general principle, it is considered that the proven
economically exploitable reserves of a project justify its full financing.
With respect to interest rates and all other charges on credits, CFM
wi'Ll cooperate with FMNM to ensure uniformity in the cost of credit to SMM
enterprises.
In cases of arrears, interest additional to the annual interest rate
stipulated in the contract will be charged.
The amortization periods of loans made by CFM shall be consistent with
the project's life and the cash-flow projections.
In support of ore-reserve exploration through financing of contracts,
CFM will first consider using the services of CRM as executing agency. If CRM's
work program prevents it from supporting these activities, CFM may finance such
contracts us-ing Drivate consultants or the beneficiaries themselves, in both
cases under CFM1's supervision.
The interest rate on loans for evaluative exploration (ore reserve
development) shall be the same as that for fixed-asset credits.
In the case of risk-sharing contracts for evaluative exploration, CFM
may absorb up to 90% of the cost in case of unsatisfactory results. Such
contracts shall provide that, in case the efforts result in success, the borrower
will pay 'royalties' on the value of production from any deposits discovered
and developed. The level of such royalties will be fixed in conformity with the
provisions of the Law Regulating Article 27 of the Constitution, concerning
mining matters, and will be coordinated with those being used by CRM. In the
event of a mineral deposit discovery, the client enterprise or CFM shall have
the option of adding the costs of the feasibility study to the costs of the
original exploration.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
IV. Project Appraisal Policy
The content of project appraisal is differentiated according to
whether it concerns small or medium-scale mining.
Project appraisals include an adequate evaluation of ore reserves
(classified into "proven", "probable" and "possible" categories) and an
analysis of the technical, administrative, financial, market and economic
aspects of the project, which would depend on the size of the loan or the
value of the equipment lease requested.
Whenever necessary, CFM shall obtain the opinion of an independent
geologist, as part of the project appraisal.
V. Project Supervision and Portfolio Control
CFM will systematically supervise its loans during the period of
execution and operations of the projects.
As part of the periodical supervision visits, CFM gives special
attention to loans that are in arrears or that require technical assistance.
CFM will prepare periodical reports with the object of identifying
problems in projects under execution and will attach thereto its proposals
for corrective action.
CFM will reserve the right to inspect the operations and accounts of
client enterprises, keeping the information obtained confidential at all times.
VI. Strategy for Regional Beneficiation Plants and Laboratories
Comparative evaluation of the geological potential of different
districts will continue to form the basis for locating the regional beneficiation
plants. These analyses are carried out by geological technical staff of CFM,
with the advisory assistance of independent professionals or of experienced
personnel of other mining agencies, as necessary.
CFM shall charge 'maguila' (tolling) fees at each plant sufficient to
cover capital as well as operating costs, which shall be reviewed semi-annually
with a view to adjusting the said charges. The financial records of each
regional plant and laboratory shall be maintained separately.
VII. Coordination of Laboratory Programs
In the development of laboratories, CFM shall take into account the
programs FMNM and of CRM and thereby ensure the fullest collaboration and
efficiency in the laboratory services provided to SMM enterprises.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
VIII. Strategy for Development of Subsidiaries of CFM
CFM will continue to promote the formation of SMM enterprises which,
shall use, as far as possible, their own share capital in preference to equity
participations by CFM.
CFM will continue to participate in the share capital of enterprises
in order to improve their capitalization or financing, particularly in cases
where the mineral to be produced, or the region in which it is located, is of
strategic importance to the State. For this purpose it will follow the
directives given to it by its Board of Directors and the Secretaria de
Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial.
IX. Financial Policy
CFM's financial policy is designed to enable it to meet its financial
obligations and cover its operating costs while preserving the growth of its
operations.
X. Personnel, Recruitment and Training
CFM will continue its policy of developing and training qualified
professionals. Part of this policy is to maintain and offer salaries and other
benefits adequate to attract and retain highly qualified professional staff.
CFM will step up its personnel training programs on such aspects as
project appraisal and supervision and financial analysis.
XI. Procurement Policies
In selecting suppliers of goods and services for projects supported
through credit programs, CFM will seek to ensure that adequate price and quality
comparisons are made.
As part of these procedures, and in conformity with the government
regulations on procurement for public enterprises, in the case of purchases
(including for lease transactions) on its own account or for its subsidiaries,
at least three bids will be obtained from a representative sample of domestic
and, whenever applicable, from foreign suppliers.
XII. Eligibility Criteria Under PECAM Program
Individuals, enterprises or groups of enterprises holding concessions
granted by the Government for mining exploration, extraction or processing, as
the case may be, whose annual production value does not exceed Mex$150 million
and whose processing capacity does not exceed 500 tons/day, taking into account
all the operating units related to the group, are eligible for financing under
the Program.  This limit shall be reviewed and adjusted at half-yearly intervals
on the basis of the movement of the international prices of the main minerals
following procedures described in the annex (see Annex 8 for the adjustment
procedure).



- 53 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 5
XIII. Maximum Amounts and Terms of Financing
The maximum amounts to be made available under each type of
operation shall be the following:
(a) For evaluative exploration (ore reserve development)
loans, up to Mex$10 million;
(b) For the development of new mines, or the expansion
of existing mines, up to Mex$15 million;
(c) For the equipping of new beneficiation plants, or the
expansion of existing plants, up to Mex$30 million;
(d) For working capital loans for mines and beneficiation
plants, up to Mex$4 million;
(e) For the leasing of machinery and equipment with option
to purchase, up to Mex$5 million; and
(f) For the establishment of regional beneficiation plants,
up to Mex$40 million.
The total under the categories enumerated above to any single individual
enterprise or group of enterprises shall be subject to a maximum of Mex$50 million.
The period of amortization and grace for any such credit or credits
shall be set in each case in accordance with the cash flow and other
characteristics of the particular project. The maximum terms shall be: 8 years
including up to 2 years of grace period in the case of fixed asset loans; 3 years
including grace period of up to six months in the case of working capital loans;
and 5 years including up to six months grace period in the case of equipment
leasing.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM-SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Regulations of Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos (FMNM)
in Relation to the Special Program
(Draft - Translation)
The purpose of this document is to set forth the operating guidelines
for the developmental activities of Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos (FMNM) in
relation to the implementation of the Special Complementary Program for Small
and Medium Scale Mining Development (PECAM).
I.  Strategy for Development of Small and Medium-Scale Mining (SMM) Development
In furtherance of the Government's policy of encouraging increased
employment, production and productivity in the mining sector,FMNM, in
coordination with Comisi6n de Fomento Minero (CFM) and Consejo de Recursos
Minerales (CRM), will step up the developmental activities referred to below
to help SMM realize its full potenitial, through:
(a) the granting of technical and financial assistance, and
(b) the installation or expansion of regional beneficiation
plants and laboratories.
To this end, FMNM will continue to expand direct contacts, periodical
seminars and information sessions in order to make more widely known the
opportunities for technical support, credit and other facilities available from
the official mining agencies. In addition, FMNM will continue to prepare and
distribute within the sector, brochures on the credit procedures, the aPpropriate
channels of communication with CRM, CFM and FMNM itself, the services of the
regional beneficiation plants and laboratories and efforts aimed at achieving
access to SMM to financing from credit institutions.
TI. T'echnical Assistance to SMM Enterprises
FMNN regards the decentralization of services aimed at promoting the
activities of SMM enterprises as a fundamental element of its operating policy,
and implements it through technical assistance granted by its regional offices
and laboratories.
To this end it will continue to expand its technical support services
for exploration, mining and beneficiation of minerals and on legal, credit,
administrative, marketing and other aspects.
The agency will continue to furnish technical assistance with the
object of encouraging the creation of new mining districts.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
III. Credit Policies
In appraising loan applications, FMNM will analyze the feasibility
of the project, basing its study on a production plan supported by satisfactory
quantitative evidence of ore reserves and the related cash-flow projections.
In granting the loans, FMNM will require as a minimum the guarantees
prescribed in the Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito 4General Law
of Securities and Credit Operations), including, whenever possible, the mining
concession. Fixed assets financed through the credit form part of the collateral.
FMNM will seek to have all its clients for fixed asset loans
(refaccionarios) finance part (at least 15%) the cost of their projects using
their own resources, such portion being determined, when appropriate, by means
of an evaluation. As a general principle, it is considered that the proven
economically exploitable reserves of a project justify its full financing.
With respect to interest rates and all other charges on credits, FMNM
will cooperate with CFM to ensure uniformity in the cost of credit to SMM
enterprises.
In cases of arrears, interest additional to the annual interest rate
stipulated in the contract will be charged.
The amortization periods of loans made by FMNM shall be consistent with
the project's life and the cash-flow projections.
In support of ore-reserve exploration through financing of contracts,
FMNM willfirst consider using the services of CRM as executing agency. If CRM's
work program prevents it from supporting these activities, FMNM may finance such
contracts using private consultants or the beneficiaries themselves, in both
cases under FMNMA's supervision.
The interest rate on loans for evaluative-exploration (ore reserve
development) shall be the same as that for fixed-asset credits.
In the case of risk-sharing contracts for evaluative exploration,FMNM
may absorb up to 90% of the cost in case of unsatisfactory results. Such
contracts shall provide that, in case the efforts result in success, the borrower
will pay 'royaltiest on the value of production from any deposits discovered
and developed. The level of such royalties will be fixed in conformity with the
provisions of the Law Regulating Article 27 of the Constitution, concerning
mining matters, and will be coordinated with those being used by CRM.  In the
event of a mineral deposit discovery, the client enterprise or FMNM shall have
the option of adding the costs of the feasibility study to the costs of the
original exploration.



56                               ANNEX 4
Page 3
IV. Project Appraisal Policy
The content of project appraisal is differentiated according to
whether it concerns small or medium-scale mining.
Project appraisals include an adequate evaluation of ore reserves
(classified into "proven", "probable" and "possible" categories) and an
analysis of the technical, administrative, financial, market and economic
aspects of the project, which would depend on the size of the loan-or the
value of the equipment lease requested.
Whenever necessary,FMNM shall obtain the opinion of an independent
geologist, as part of the project appraisal.
V. Project Supervision and Portfolio Control
FINM will systematically supervise its loans during the period of
execution and operations of the projects.
As part of the periodical supervision visits, FMNM gives special
attention to loans that are in arrears or that require technical assistance.
FMNM will prepare periodical reports with the object of identifying
problems in projects under execution and will attach thereto its proposals
for corrective action.
FMM will reserve the right to inspect the operations and accounts of
client enterprises, keeping the information obtained confidential at all times.
Subprojects involving financing to eitHos will receive particular attention
in this supervision program, with a view to providing them with the required technical
assistance to improve their operations.
VI. Strategy for Regional Beneficiation Plants and Laboratories
Comparative evaluation of the geological potential of different
districts will continue to form the basis for locating the regional beneficiation
plants. These analyses are carried out by geological technical staff of FMNM,
with the advisory assistance of independent professionals or of experienced
personnel of other mining agencies, as necessary.
FMNM shall charge 'maquila' (tolling) fees at each plant sufficient to
cover capital as well as operating casts, which shall be reviewed semi-annually
with a view to adjusting the said charges. The financial records of each
regional plant and laboratory shall be maintained separately.
VII. Coordination of Laboratory Programs
In the development of laboratories, FMNM shall take into account the
programs CFM and of CRM and thereby ensure the fullest collaboration and
efficiency in the laboratory services provided to SMM enterprises.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
VIII. Stit _gy for Development of Subsidiaries of FMNM
FMNM  will continue to promote the formation of SMM enterprises which,
shall use, as far as possible, their own share capital in preference to equity
participations by FMNM.
FMNM will continue to participate in the share capital of enterprises
in order to improve their capitalization or financing, particularly in cases
where the mineral to be produced, or the region in which it is located, is of
strategic importance to the State.  For this purpose it will follow the
directives given to it by its Technical Committee and the Secretarla de
Patrimonio y Fomento Industrial.
IX.  Financial Policy
FMNM's financial policy is designed to enable it to meet its financial
obligations and cover its operating costs while preserving the growth of its
operations.
X.  Personnel, Recruitment and Trainin8
FMNM will continue its policy of developing and training qualified
professionals. Part of this policy is to maintain and offer salaries and other
benefits adequate to attract and retain highly qualified professional staff.
FMNM will step up its personnel training programs on such aspects as
project appraisal and supervision and financial analysis.
XI.  Procurement Policies
In selecting suppliers of goods and services for projects supported
'through credit programs, FMNMwill seek to ensure that adequate price and quality
comparisons are made.
As part of.these procedures, and in. conformity with the government
regulations on procurement for public enterprises, in the case of purchases
(including for lease transactions) on its own account or for its subsidiaries,
at least three bids will be obtained-from a representative sample of domestic
and, whenever applicable, from foreign suppliers.
XII. Eligibility Criteria Under PECAM Program
Individuals, enterprises or groups of enterprises holding concessions
granted by the Government for mining exploration, extraction or processing, as
the case may be, whose annual production value does not exceed Mex$150 million
and whose processing capacity does not exceed 800 tons/day, taking into account
all the operating units related to the group, are eligible for financing under
the Program.  This limit shall be reviewed and adjusted at half-yearly intervals
on the basis of the movement of the international prices of the main minerals
following procedures described in the annex (see Annex 8 for the adjustment
procedure).



ANNEX 4
- 58 -
Page 5
XIII. Maximum Amounts and Terms of Financing
The maximum amounts to be made available under each type of
operaLtion shall be the following:
(a) For evaluative exploration (ore reserve development)
loans, up to Mex$10 million;
(B) For the development of new mines, or the expansion
6f existing mines, up to Mex$15 million;
(c) For the equipping of new beneficiation plants, or the
expansion of existing plants, up to Mex$30 million;
(d) For working capital loans for mines and beneficiation
plants, up to Mex$4 million;
Ce) For the leasing of machinery and equipment with option
to purchase, up to Mex$5 million; and
(f) For the establishment of regional beneficiation plants,
up to Mex$40 million.
The total under the categories enumerated above to any single individual
enterprise or group of enterprises shall be subject to a maximum of Mex$50 million.
The period of amortization and grace for any such credit or credits
shall be set in each case in accordance with the cash flow and other
characteristics of the particular project. The maximum terms shall be: 8 years
including up to 2 years of grace period in the case of fixed asset loans; 3 years
including grace period of up to six months in the case of working capital loans;
and 5 years including up to six months grace period in the case of equipment
leasiLng.



- 59 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Regulations of the Coordinating Committee of the Special Program
(Draft - Translation)
Section I
The Special Complementary Program for Small- and Medium-Scale Mining
Development (PECAM) has the following objectives:
(a) To foster the expansion of proven mineral reserves by
making credits available for the exploration of deposits
regarded as potentially worthwhile;
(b) To increase mining production through credits for the
development of new, or for the expansion of existing,
small and medium scale mines and enterprises;
(c) To foster the establishment and development of firms
specializing in mining exploration;
(d) To monitor the appropriateness of the country's exploitation
of its mineral resources, through the utilization of
appropriate technology geared to national requirements;
(e) To provide technical assistance to the small- and medium-scale
mining sector for purposes of exploration and sector
development.
Section II
Individuals, enterprises or groups of enterprises
holding concessions granted by the Goverrnment for mining exploration,
extraction and processing, as the case may be, would be eligible for financing
under PECAM, provided that their annual production value, does not exceed
Mex$150 million and whose-plant pr6cessing capacity, including the capacity of
all plants pertaining to the group, does not exceed 500 tons per day in the case
of metallic minerals and 800 tons per day in the case of non-metallic minerals.
The maximum limit on production value shall be reviewed and adjusted at half-yearly
intervals, based on the movement of the international price of a specified basket
of minerals following the procedures annexed (See Annex 8 for the details of the
adjustment procedure).



- 60 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 2
Section III
The Program shall carry out the following operations:
(a) The granting of loans for evaluative exploration (ore
reserve development loans) to increase the quantity of
known mineral reserves and hence the production capacity.
Such loans may be of two types:
- Loans on which repayment shall be independent of
the results obtained from the exploration project;
and
- Loans on which repayment shall be linked to the
success of the exploration project; in case of a
success, a "premium", to be fixed by the Coordinating
Committee, would be payable in addition to the normal
interest rate charged on the loan.
(b) The granting of medium-term fixed asset loans (creditos
refaccionarios) for:
- The development of new mines, or the expansion or
mechanization of existing mines;
- The equipping of new beneficiation plants, or the
expansion or modernization of existing plants.
(c) The granting of working capital loans as complements to the
above fixed asset loans.
(d) The leasing of machinery and equipment with option to
purchase.
(e) The construction and equipping of regional beneficiation
plants for the treatment of ore extracted by small- and medium-
scale mining concerns which do not have their own beneficiation
plants.
(f) The provision of financing to the Consejo de Recursos Minerales
(CRM), Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM) and Fideicomiso
Minerales No Metalicos (FMNM) in order to reinforce their
technical and organizational infrastructure.
(g) The rediscounting of loans made by private banks to support
small- and medium-scale mining enterprises, defined as above.
Section IV
All requests for the granting of credits and equipment leases with
options to purchase under PECAM must be accompanied by the following information:
(a) Mining concession granted by the Government;
(b) Property title or a signed contract with the owner of the
property;



- 61 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 3
(c) Draft contract with the concern that will carry out the
exploration work, as applicable;
(d) Program of exploration, as applicable;
(e) Program of mining, as applicable;
(f) Evaluation of the economic, financial, administrative and
marketing aspects of the project, having the scope and
detail of analysis as prescribed by the Coordinating Committee.
Section V
With respect to regional beneficiation plants, the following requirements
shall need to be met:
(a) Their capacity should not exceed 250 t/day;
(b) Submission of a technical, economic, financial and management
appraisal report on the plant, including an adequate study of
the geological potential and economic viability of the mines
that are to supply mineral to the plant.
Section VI
All loans granted under PECAM shall be subject to the documentation
required by the Ley General de Titulos y Operaciones de Credito, and shall be
backed by collaterals as provided in that law.
Section VII
The maximum amounts to be made available under each type of operation shall
be the following:
(a) For evaluative exploration (ore reserve development) loans,
up to Mex$10 million;
(b) For the development of new mines, or the expansion of existing
mines, up to Mex$15 million;
(c) For the equipping of new beneficiation plants, or the expansion
of existing plants, up to Mex$30 million;
(d)  For working capital loans for mines and beneficiation plants up
to Mex$4 million;
(e) For the leasing of machinery and equipment with option to
purchase, up to Mex$5 million;
(f) For the establishment of regional beneficiation plants, up to
Mex$40 million;
(g) For infrastructure development of the executing agencies, up to
Mex$10 million.



- 62 -                            ANNEX 5
Page 4
The total under the categories enumerated above to any single
individual,enterprise or group of enterprises shall be subject to a maximum
of Mex$50 million.
Section VIII
The period of amortization and grace for any such credit or credits
shall be set in each case in accordance with the cash flow and other
characteristics of the particular project. The maximum terms shall be:
8 years including up to 2 years of grace period in the case of fixed asset
loans; 3 years including grace period of up to six months in the case of
working capital loans; and 5 years including up to six months grace period in
the case of equipment leasing.
Section IX
Interest rates on the loans denominated in pesos shall be fixed using
as a reference a base rate equal to the average cost of funds to the financiera
(investment banking) departments of the private and mixed banks of Mexico
(the ACF index) estimated monthly by Banco de Mexico, rounded to the nearest
quarter of a percentage point.
The initial interest rate applicable to the final beneficiary shall be
the! prevailing base rate of the immediately preceding month plus 1.5 percentage
points and shall be modified once every six months, if necessary.
The interest rates on dollar denominated loans shall be determined from
time to time by the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit).
Section X
Contracts made between the executing agencies of PECAM and the final
beneficiaries shall stipulate the right of the respective agencies to have access
at all times to adequate information on the progress of execution of the project
or program, to inspect or supervise the execution and operation, and to require
submission of borrowers' financial statements certified by external auditors.
Section XI
PECAM shall be directed by a Coordinating Committee, which would be
comprised of one full member and one alternate from each of the following entities:



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional y Fomento Industrial (SEPAFIN)
- Subsecretariat of Mines and Energy
- Director General of Mines
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Comision de Fomento Minero (CFM)
Fideicomiso Minerales No Metalicos (FMNM)
The meetings of the Coordinating Committee shall be chaired by the
Subsecretary of Mines and Energy, or, in his absence, by his alternate.
Section XII
The Coordinating Committee shallbe assisted by a Technical Secretary in
fulfilling its duties. The Director General for Analysis of Mining Operations
and Energy will act as the Technical Secretary and will have staff to support him.
Section XIII
The Technical Committee shall meet as often as circumstances require, but
at least once a month. The Technical Secretary shall make available the agenda
and background documentation at least five days prior to each such meeting.
Section XIV
A quorum shall exist whenever four members are present, provided one of
them is the representative of SEPAFIN. Matters shall be decided by majority of
votes, and in the case of a deadlock the chairman shall have the casting vote.
Section XV
An alternate may attend all meetings; however, when the Committee-member
whom he replaces is also present, he shall have the rifht to address the Committee
but not to vote.
Section XVI
The functions of the Coordinating Committee shall be:
(a) To study and, where appropriate, approve any modification to
these Operating Regulations;
(b) To examine, and where appropriate, approve financing and leasing
operations of small and medium scale enterprises which are submit-
ted for its consideration by the Technical Secretariat, and shall
ensure that such agreements and operations are in keeping with
the Program's objectives and guidelines;



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
(c) To examine and, where appropriate, approve financing for regional
beneficiation plant and technical assistance operations for the
executing agencies which are submitted for its consideration
by the Technical Secretariat* ensuring that they are consistent
with the Program's objectives and guidelines;
(d) To examine, and, where appropriate, approve increases in the
maximum annual production values used for defining small and
medium-scale mining enterprises according to procedures set out
in Section II of these Operating Regulations, on the basis of
proposals prepared by the Technical Secretariat;
(e) To examine and, where appropriate, approve the modifications in
operational and promotional strategy concerning the Program which
may be submitted for its consideration by the executing agencies
to the Technical Secretariat;
(f) To decide determine the currency to be employed in each financing
operation.
Section XVII
The executing agencies shall submit to the Coordinating Committee all the
information that the Committee considers necessary for evaluating the progress
and functioning of the Program.
Section XVIII
The functions of the Technical Secretariat shall be:
(a) To submit for consideration of the Coordinating Committee
applications for financial assistance from the small- and medium-
scale mining enterprises, for regional plants and for technical
assistance to the executing agencies, which have been authorized
by the respective executing agencies;
(b) To submit, in collaboration with the executing agencies, periodic
reports on the progress of the Program including whenever possible
an analysis of operational statistics and project portfolio,
promotional aspects, etc.;
(c) To submit for the consideration of the Coordinating Committee
information on any changes in the value of the "basket of minerals"
for the purpose of the definition under Section II above:
(d) To serve as an informal link with the executing agencies during
the project appraisal process;
(e) To inform the executing agencies in writing about the eligibility
of the projects submitted by the respective agencies for
consideration of the Coordinating Committee;



- 65 -                          ANNEX 5
Page 7
(f) To keep minutes of each and every meeting of the Coordinating
Committee and obtain the signature of the chairman; and
(f) To perform any other duties assigned to it by the Coordinating
Committee.
The procedures for deciding on the financing of operations involving
support for small- and medium-scale mining enterprises, for regional plants and
for technical assistance to the executing agencies are as follows:
(a) In the case of loans of over Mex$10 million to the small- and
medium-scale mining enterprises, and in all cases of
assistance to the executing agencies or their affiliates,
the specific approval of the Coordinating Committee shall
be required.
(b) In operations not covered by (a) above, the financing decisions
will be made by the executing agencies, which will promtply
inform the Coordinating Committee of the characteristics of
such operations; the Coordinating Committee shall,however, have
the option of reviewing selectively a representative sample of
such operations.



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
MEXICO
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Variable Interest Rates and the ACF Index
1.        Since 1974 financial institutions in Mexico have been increasingly
adopting variable interest rate schemes for term lending operations. The
change from fixed rate lending, which had been the practice in the past, came
after inflation had accelerated post-1973 to levels--20% and more p.a.--unknown
in Mexico for twenty years and after Banco de Mexico had raised the maximum
interest rate on deposits by almost 4 percentage points above the 1972 level.
Variable rates were used for the first time on a large long-term loan from a
group of banks and financieras (investment banks) to several large public enter-
prises, where it was agreed that the rate would be set several points above
their average cost of funds and would vary as this base rate varied.
Since that time, the use of variable interest rates has become more generalized
and by 1977 practically no term loans were being made except at variable interest
rates.
2.        The index of the average cost of funds to the financiera (investment
banking) departments of Mexican private and mixed banks (the ACF index) has been
the miost common index used in Mexico as the reference for adjusting interest
rates under the variable rate systems. It is a weighted average, gross of tax, of
interest rates paid on various financial instruments used by the banks to raise
resources including financial bonds, term deposits, certificates of deposit and
promissory notes (whose maturities 'are up to 2 years), but excluding checking and
savings accounts. The index has been redefined in December 1979 to include in
the computation of financial instruments issued by all arms, including the investment
banking, commercial banking and mortgage banking departments, of the banks
rather than just the investment banking departments, but the index continues to
exclude checking and savings accounts.
3.        Banco de Mexico generally looked with favor upon the development of
variable-rate lending, recognizing it as a way of preventing an even more rapid
contraction in term lending activity of the financial system in response to
the uncertainties created by inflation in the past.  Banks favored the principle,
since it could prevent a profit squeeze on deposits accepted at short term and
re-le!nt at longer term. Borrowers accepted the idea, basically because the
alternative would have been a considerably higher fixed rate and because of the
ACF system's similarity to a series of rolled-over short-term loans similar to
variable-rate Eurodollar loans.
4.        Movements in the ACF are determined chiefly by the rates paid on
various classes of deposit instruments and changes in the volume of savings
attra,cted by different instruments. Maximum rates that banks can pay on each
instrument are set by Banco de Mexico to avoid excessive fluctuations in rates
and undesirable large movements in deposits between financial institutions or



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
between instruments with different term characteristics. Nevertheless, through
1972 rates were set high enough to attract substantial real increases in re-
sources and the banking system was growing faster than GDP. During that time,
the ACF, at around 10%, was 5-7 points greater than inflation (see table below).
During 1973-76, the inflationary period leading up to the abandokiment of the
fixed parity of the peso in relation to the US dollar in September 1976, the
ACF rose to only 12% as deposit rates were raised several times but never by
enough to exceed inflation (except for brief periods). Resource mobilization,
consequently, suffered and the financial system shrank when measured in
constant prices.
5.        The new administration has set a policy of maintaining interest rates
which, in relation to inflationary expectations, would permit adequate resource
mobilization. The first step in this policy was taken in May 1977 when interest
rates on the longest term deposits (2 years) were increased from 15.17% to 18.52%
(12.75% to 16% after tax); the ACF reached about 16.25% by the beginning of 1979
and has stabilized around that level during the first two quarters of 1979.
Reflecting the sharply higher interest rates in international markets and the
Increase durlng thv 7lst qiiartpr in the maximum rate  for mne longest term
deposits to 19.52%, the ACF index has increased to 17.5. by the end of 1970.
6.         Over the years, changes in the relative distribution of deposits
according to the term has also affected movement in the ACF. For instance, in late
1976 deposit rates were raised but the ACF did not rise because the public, due
to general uncertainty, shifted a larger portion of its deposits into financial
bonds paying lower rates but withdrawable at sight. On the other hand, the
effect on the ACF of the May 1977 increase, mainly in longer term deposit rates,
was reinforced by a relative shift from shorter to longer term deposit instruments.
7.         If the annual rate of inflation decreases gradually,as expected,from
about 18% in 1979 to international levels by 1982, and the recent rapid growth
of deposits is sustained, the level of ACF over the next few years can be ex-
pected to be relatively stable, with only slow and gradual changes. If, how-
ever, the progress in controlling inflation are less successful, the monetary
authorities could be expected to adjust deposit rates accordingly,



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                Page 3
Deposit Rates, the ACF and Inflation
Average Inflation
Highest Deposit                                   Rate
'Year  Quarter              Rate                  ACF                (Annalizedl/
1971   1                    11.48                10.53               t
2                    11.11               10.41                     5.2
3                    11.11                10.30               ( 
3                    11.11                10.19                 (average for
the year)
1972   1                    10.60                10.03
2                    10.60                 9.97
3                    10.60                 9.91                    5.0
4                    10.60                 9.90                 (average for
the year)
1973   1                    10.60                 9.87               (
2                    10.88                 9.87                   12.0
3                    12.71               10.41                    1.
4                    12(71                10.65                 (average for
12.71   10.65                      ~~~~~the year)
1974   1                    12.78                10.88               (
2                    13.74               11.35                    23.7
4                    14.21                11.88 7               (average for
4   14.21               11.88                     ~~~~~~~~~the year)
1975   1                    14.21                11.86               (
2                    14.21               11.89                    15.1
3                    14.21               11.91
4                    14.21                11.97               (
1976   1                    13.91                11.78
2                    13.91               11.76                t   15.7
3                    14.63                11.74               (
4                    15.17                11.99               (
1977   1                    15.17                11.99               (
2                    16.28                12.59               (   28.9
3                    18.52                13.83               (
4                    18.52                14.30               (
1978   1                    18,52                14.88                    17.6
2                    18.52                15.47                   17.6
3                    18.52                15.67                   16.3
4                    18.52                16.10                   16.1
1379   1                    18.52                16.20                    iSA
2                    16.52                16.27                   17.
3                    18.52                16.62                   17.9
4                    19.52                17.52 2/                17.9
1/ Computed as the percent increment in the-average value of the consumer price index
during the period (year or quarter) over the corresponding period one year earlier.
2/ The ACF index was redefined in December 1979 to take account of the deposits and other
financial instruments issued by all departments (commercial, investment and mortgage
banking departments) of Mexican banks rather than only those of the investment
banking departments (see para. 2 of this Annex). However, the characteristics of the
index remain basically unchanged; the difference in the value of the index as a
result of this redefinition has been minimal (about one-tenth of a percentage point).
LCPI2
January 1980



- 69 -                                  ANNEX 7
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regionel Offices ("Sucursales") and Promotion Offices of CFM and FMNM
A. Locations of CFM's Offices (City and State)
Ensenada, Baja California
Saltillo, Coahuila
Sabinas, Coahuila
Chihuahua, Chihuahua
Parral, Chihuahua
Durango, Durango
Guanacevi, Durango
Chilpancingo, Guerrero
Guadalajara, Jalisco
Morelia, Michoacan
Altamirano, Michoacan
Tepic, Nayarit
Oaxaca, Oaxaca
Puebla, Puebla
Queretaro, Queretaro
San Luls Posoti, San Luls Potosi
Culiacan, Sinaloa
Hermosillo, Sonora
Zacatecas, Zacatecas
Tlalpujahua, Michoacan
B. Locations of FMNM's Offices (City and State)
Existing
Puebla, Puebla
Oaxaca, Oaxaca
Iguala, Guerrero
Torreon, Coahuila
Hermosillo, Sonora
Projected (for 1980-81)
Leon, Guanajuato
Ensenada, Baja California Norte
Chihuahua, Chihuahua
Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas
Mazatlan, Sonora
San Luis Potosi, San Luis Potosi
Tuxtla Gutierrez, Chiapas
LCPI2
January 1980



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
System for Periodic Adjustment of Maximum Size Limit for Eligible SMM
Enterprises
1.        The maximum limit of Mex$150,000,000 specified for the total value
of production for the purposes of defining medium and small scale mining
(SISM) enterprises was based on the size structure of mining enterprises and
average mineral prices prevailing in mid-1979. However, as mineral prices
fluctuate, the values of production of individual enterprises that are "small"
or "medium" (from the viewpoints of technological sophistication and physical
capacity) may vary considerably over time. In order to take account of this,
the above maximum limit on production value would be reviewed and adjusted once
every six months to reflect changes in the average international price of
minerals. For this purpose, a basket of seven of the most important minerals
produced in Mexico (silver, gold, lead, copper, zinc, barite and fluorspar) has
been constructed, with the tonnages of the individual minerals being proportional
to their respective volumes of production during 1978 (see table below) and
prices as of mid-1979.
Volume of
Components of the        production in 1978         Price quotation to be used
Mineral Basket               (Metric tons)                     (Source)
Silver                         1,579.4                 Handy L. Harman
Gold                                6.3                Handy L. Harman
Lead                         170,533.0                 U.S. producer
Copper                        87,186.0                U.S. producer
Zinc                         244,892.0                 Prime Western U.S.
Baritel/                     231,485.0                 F.O.B. Gulf
Fluorspar                    959,784.0                 F.O.B. Gulf
2.        The maximum limit on the production value would be updated at the
end of each six-month period by multiplying the initial maximum value limit by
the ratio of the average international price per ton of the above basket of
minerals over the latest six-month period to the average international price
per ton of the same basket in the first six-month period of 1979.
1/ Barite dry ground, drilling, 83-93% BAS04 and 3-12% Fe.



- 71 -                            ANNEX 9
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
International Reference Prices for Mexico's Main Minerals
Antimony                          U.S. "Lode Star Laredo" price less
transport and supply costs.
Arsenic                           Published price from "Metals Week"
as published.
Bismuth                           Published price from "Metals Week".
Cadmium                           Published price from "Metals Week".
Copper                            Average of previous month's U.S. producer
prices. When L.M.E. 1/ equal or less
than U.S. producer, otherwise L.M.E.
Sold                              L.M.E. price plus US 10 cents per troy
ounce.
Silver                            Average of "Comex first position" and
L.M.E. price, less 0.55%.
Lead.                             The domestic price is fixed according
to a formula based on L.M.E. and New York
prices, and the metal shipments of the
previous week.
Zinc                              "Prime Western" price, equivalent to
average international prices of the
previous week, less 5%.
Other metallic &                  e.g. Sulphuric acid, coal, coke, etc. -
non-metallics                    established by government authorities.
e.g. Barite - established by government
but now close to international prices
1/ London Metals Exchange price.



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE-MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Comisi6n de Fomento Minero
Director                                                o
General
Francisco Aparicio VarelaA
General
Manager
Manuel Toron Varela
l                       Te~~~~~~~~chnical                            .Directorlo 
Legal-Administrative                                     Director                                     Subsidiaries and
Director                                           Victor Villa J.                                     Affiliates
Francisco Casasus Sordo                                                                                Alfonso_ Fradz Qfn 17
Legal       Administrative   Promotion       Beneficiation    Projects       Credit       Laboratory   Operations   Financial
Department      Department      Department        Plants        Denartment   Department   Department   Evaluation   Evaluation
Armand zafra   Abel Rodriguez   Javier Lara    Department        Sergio          Arturo        Homero      Department   Department
Zavala   IJavier Perera   Lizcano         .Garcia A.      Monjardin   Enriqez         Gabriel
I I  -J                         '~~~~~~~Valdez     Gorvea
18    (18)    18        (18)     43   (75)       14   (122)       11   (19)   3  (13)        52  (263)      16 (21)      11  (11)
1/ Figures represent number of professionals currently working in each unit, and figures in parentheses, total professionals
proposed.
LCPI2
October, 1979
I-
0



MEXICO: SIAIL AND jE    L O P SCALE MINING IEFELOMNT PROJECT
Organi-ation Chart of the Fideitomiso de Minerales No Metalico. Mexicanos l;
(FNmm)              -
Technical and Funds
Disbureement Committee
Chairman: Fernendo Hirriart Bslderama
Director General
Moies lColtenitk ToFber
T.chnic.1 Sub-direct.r                                                                      |Fi...i.  Sub_directo
Ubald. Alarcon S.ntana                                                       3-~~~~~~~~~~~~Jrge M4edellin Ortes
| Operationa Manager   |                               Exploratio nenagec                             Planning Manager           Finonce & Credit Manager                            Administration Manager
Julio diernandee                                    Ubaldo  Al.rcon Felix                             Tomae Mikloc                 Antonio Buiz Ortiz                               Rene Gomez Rodrtgueo
|  19  (65)                                       77 (20)                                       (21)                                3)                                        1 (52
MNten          -reginal project   certln w               rogi e-ch      Gei o    a        e      a         P     n v. alation eonoi                 Credi     ontroper ee                          mnltratiie        urc far 198
1/  Numbers represent professionals currently working in each unit and numbers in parenthests reprenent total professionals for 1960.



ORGANIZATION CHART
OF THE CONSEJO DE RECURSOS MINERALES
Di 6pr    .-.ircor 
Wo,ad Bank - 20266



-75                             ANNEX 13
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
Organization Chart of Subsecretariat of Mines and Energy
Comisio'n de' Fomento
Minero
Dir. Francisco Aparicio V.
uI    Consejo de Recursos
II          Minerales
Mines and Energy             Dir. Guillermo Salas
Fernando Hiriart B.
Balderama
l   Fideicomiso de Minerales
No Metalicos
Dir.Moises Kolteniuk Toyber
.~~~~~~~~~~~~
Director General        Director General      Director General       National Commission
Analysis of Operations         of Mines             of Energy              on  Energy
Javier Casas Guzman        Jesus Corrales
LCPI2
October 1979



\
\\
-



- 76 -
ANNEX 14
SUPPLEMENTARY TABLES AND CHARTS
I






-77-                            ANNEX 14
T-1
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-1;  Evolution of Production frQm the Mining Sector, 1965-78
(Mex$ millions)
Year         Total                Metals               Non-metals
I965        4,768            3,778      79.2%         990      20.8%
1966        5,052            3 ,909    77.4%        1 143      22.6%
1967        5,512            3,910      70.9%       1 602       29.1%
1968        6,191            4 ,439    71.7%        1 752      28.3%
1969        6,737            4 ,932    73.2%        1 805       26.8%
1970        7,433            5,759      77.5%       1 674      22.5%
1971        6,706  -4-,753              70.9%      1 953       29.1%
1972        7,171            5,251      73.2%       1 920       26.8%
1973        9,107       *    6,733      73.9%       2 374       26.1%
1974       13,268           10,516      79.3%       2 752      20.7%
1975       13,128            9,263      70.6%       3 865      29.4%
1976       16,785           12,381      73.8%       4 404       26.2%
1977       25,200           17,640      70  %       7 560      30  7%
1978       24,163            18,708     77  %       5 455       23  %
Source:  Annual Statistics of Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM).



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-2: Production, Exports and Imports of Metallic Minerals
(1978)
Production                           Exports                        Imports
Quantity         Value         % of         Quantity         Value         Quantity          Value
Mex$ '000       Total          Kg          Mex$ '000           K           Mex$ '000
Precious Metals
Gold a/                   6,283          896,156         5             -              -                -              -
Silver a/            1,579,393        6,238,180         33           941,868      3,069,284
Platinum a/               -                                                                            2             1,166
Subtotal                            7,134,336         38                        3,069.284                          1,166
Industrial Metals            Tons                                         Tons                            Tons
Aluminum                 -                 -                               5               5          42,460    1,131,094
Antimony             2,457               126,941                       5,255         74,627                          -
Arsenic              4,730                43,309                       2,802         28,743
Berilium b/              -                 -                            -               -                  3           615
Bismuth b/             978                96,957                         187         21,095              470            98
Cadmium b/           1,894               165,922                         759         78,768              952           306
Cobalt                  -                  -                               8          2,087               56        22,092      1
Copper              87,186             2,669,116        12             1,529         78,614           22,102       908,150      s
Chrome                                     -                               4              48          50,786       124,300      X
Iron             3,556,109             2,289,337        12            23,771        242,927          762,133    1,600,836
Lead               170,533             2,400,838        13            86,921      1,432,934              281         3,268
Magnesium                -                 -                                8            146           2,297       107,692
Manganese          188,340               473,760                     198,509        275,909           37,395        59,929
Mercury                  76                7,785                         216          15,654             416 b/        160
Molybdemium              11                2,639                        -               -                774       109,837
Metal                    22                2,189                            2            332           3,111       303,941
Pateadium                -                   -                           -             -                  17 b/      4,655
Selenium                80                44,848                          30         15,296              548 b/        160
Tin                     73                20,744                          62             377           3,825       426,162
Tungsten                234               76,736                         437         64,804               24        16,479
Titanium                 -                 -                              -            -              65,516        47,384
Zinc               244,892             3,152,929        17           230,186      2,271,308              111         1,935
Other                   -                  -                              88         17,366               -          -
Subtotal                          11,514,050                                    4,621,040                     4,869,003  A
Total Metallic Minerals         18,708,386         100                        7,690,324                     6,000,000
Source:   Annual Statistical Report of CRM, 1978.



- 79 -                                           ANNEX 14
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                    T-3
T-3: Production, Exports and Imports of Non-Metallic Minerals
(1e78)
Production                             Exports                                 Imports
Value                                 Value                                   Value
Tons      X     ex$.'000              Tons           MexS '000         .. ns                 Mex$ '000
Abrasives                                                           30                  64              1,298             15,432
Alumina                                                            -                 -                108,489           -475,142
Alabastre                                                        1,943              4,583
Asbestos                                                           155                 978             60,087            822,884
Ashfalts                                                           995              3,622
Balast                                                           7,806                 861
Barite                  231,485             172,791            98,227              44,105                  542             1,566
Bauxite                                                                                                50,302            157,691
Benlonite                33,795               3,379                 23                 140              4,522             18,066
Blocdite                127,710              31,928
Borax                                                                                                     429              1,88S
Calcite                  19,753               2,173                                                     2,612              5,301
Celestite                33,169               6,426            37,243               8,629
Clays                    67,985               2,040                574              1,324              17,761            188,097
Criolite                                                                                                   55              1,521
Coal                    154,806              23,995             1,022              14,699             184,423            286,671
Coke                 2,490,923           1,407,371                -                   -               192,459            582,369
Diatmite                 22,452               2,694              2,762             10,589                    4                33
Dolomite                249,243              14,955                502                 874                  74               208
Feldspar                127,554              16,528                357                 184                752              1,570
Fluorite                959,784.         1,544,654            709,705           1,184,400                 -                  -
Fullers Earths           39,958               3,996            14,558              60,769                 -                  -
Graphite                 52,264              47,270            47,164              56,258                 164              2,881
Gypsum                1,757,870              79,104           535,305             101,477              24,859             16,814
Kaolin                   45,442               3,635                 53                 117             55,550            128,105
Limestone             1,480,767              22,212              1,380               1,303                 -                 -
Vagnesite                23,085               8,772                237               l,no4              4,392             16,764
Marble                    1,269                 292              1,324               7,W0l               4,772            21,16R
Mica                        401                 401                 10                  76                  96            14,932
Nejeline Sienite                                                                                           542             1,462
Perlite                   8,191                 410              5,053             17,184                  -                 -
Pirofilite                                                                                                  80               229
Ponaz Stone                                                                                                 22                247
Phosphoritae            322,076             173,157              1,021                 743              1,349            846,577
Polash                                                                                                133,166            187,541
Ouartz                      -                   -                  339                 294              1,518              6,333
Salt                                                        4,289,206             711,953               1,378              3,055
Silica                  532,209               3,635             18,413             47,780             319,230            131,954
Sulfur                1,817,685           1,805,058         1,235,065           1,472,028                  111            11,402
Talc                      2,639                 761                213                 302            129,131            123,358
Vermiculite                 -                   -                  -                   -                   608             4,184
Whiterite                   --                                     -                   -                 1,163                 54
Wollastomite              5,653              1,018                 460                 649
Zirconium                   -                   -                  -                   -                4,720             21,749
Precious & Semi-precious
Stones                                                          7,613             66,329              68,606              1,649
TOTAL VALUE                      5,454,905                              3,824,127                              4,098,885
Source:   Annual Statistical Report of CRM, 1978.



-80 -
ANNEX 14
T-4
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-4- Distribution of Mining'Procuction by Enterprise Size
(1978)
Five Lar      _                     ~~~~~~ADvroximate Value of- toduction
Fiv  Largest Mining Groups or EnterDrises        AurxmtVaeo-  octn
Industrias Penoles
Industrial Minero Mexico               )  Individual gross sales ranging
Compania Minera Fresnillo              )  from 1.5 to 8.0 billion.
Minera San Francisco del Oro              (Total net production estimated at
Cia, Minera Cananea                        about Mex$12.5 billion)
Other Large Mining Groups or Enterprises
Meg. Min. Sta. Maria                         285 million
Minerales Nacionales de M.                   309
Cooperativa de Guanajuato                    232   '
Ciaminera Autlan                             400
San Luis Potosi                             656
Real de Monte y Pachuca                      614
La Domincia (DuDont)                         122
Las Cueras (Noranda)                         230
Border Line Mining Companies 1/
Fluorita de Mexico                           159 million
Barita Santa Rosa                            155   "
Medium Sized Mining Groups or Enterprises
Tayahua                                      128 million
Natividad                                     98   Vs
Buena Noche                                 109
Guadalupe                                    42
San Miguel                                   91
Victoria Eugenia                              87   "
Sombrerete                                  107
Macocosac                                    150
Minera Met Mexicana                           62
Rosario Mexico                              144   "
Comronfort                                    14
Santa Rosalia                                 35   "
Macobar                                       80
Bentonita de Mexico                           58
1/ Borderline between 'medium' and 'large'.
Source: Direcci6n General de Minas, SEPAFIN.



- 81 -                              ANNEX 14
T-5
MEXICO:  SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
T-5: Share of Small and Medium Scale Mining (SMM) In The Production of
Various Minerals
(1978)
Estimated value of
SMM Production                   Percent of Total
(Mex$ million)                       Production
Silver                          1,990                                  32
Fluorspar                         600                                  39
Lead                              445                                  19
Gold                              420                                  47
Zinc                              365                                  12
Copper                            320                                  12
Barite                             175                                100
Coal                              165                                  11
Phosphorite                        160                                 92
Tungsten                           75                                100
Cadmium                            70                                 43
Graphite                           50                                100
Iron                               45                                  2
Manganese                           40                                  9
Tin                                 20                                100
Dolomite                            15                                100
Other                             250                                  12
TOTAL                5,205                                 22
Source:   Data of CFM and Direcci6n General de Minas, SEPAFIN, 1978,



)%EXICO SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-6   CFM - Summary of Past and Projected Approvals of
Financing to Small and Medium Scale Mining, 1975-82
(Mex$ million)
Actual                    Estimated            Pro_1ected
Type of Financing                                  1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982
Advance. and pignoraciones 1/                      68 5       81 3      105 4      233 8     293 5      385.5      500.4      646 5
Equipment leases with oDtion to
purchase                                          19 3       29 0       47 3      58 5       85.9      125 0      162 3      220.6
Short-term Equipment Leases                         0.7        1 0        1 0        1 5       1.9        2 5        3 2        4 2
Fixed Asset Credits                                26 5       24 9       18 7       36 7     141.8      184.1      238 9      210 1
Ore Reserve Development Credits
Risk-sharing Credits                               -          -          -         0.9       1.0        1 3        1.7        2 Z
Secured Credits                                    _-                                         -        27.5       38 9       45 9
Permanent working capital Loans 2/                   _          _                                         9.2       23 9       31.0
Emergency Loans (Mutuosl3/                           -         0 2        2 0        4.0       5 3        6 9        8 9       11 b
TOTAL                                 115 0      136.4      1744       425=4     530 4      742=0      978.2   1,262 1
1/ 'Advanceslare made against ores or concentrates already delivered to custom plants or smelters, pignoracones are
advances made against ores or concentrates not yet delivered
2/ For 1975-79 credits for this purpose were neglible, and are included in Fixed Asset Credits category foi those vears,
3/ Made in small amounts without collateral
LCPI2
October  1979                                                                                                                      a
>4



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-7:    CEM - Summary of Regional Reneficiation Plants
Number     No. of  iNumber      Estimated Gross
REGIONAL PLANTS  I/                                                               of       *ioe                 Annual Production
REGONA  1/ Start-up                                 Capacity Employees  Deliv.
(Location and State)          Date            Process                    Tons/Day   at        Crude  Fmplo ees   (in US$ million) 2/
Plant     Ore       Mines
In Operation
Parrilla (Durango)             1979       Flotation                      120       49        9       214                6.8
Cuahtemoc (Chihuahua)          1976       Flotation                      100       36        7        86                5.2
Patronato Parral (Chihuahua) 1963         Flotation & Cyanidation        300       80       19       329               13.2
El Coco (Sinaloa)              1979 Jul   Flotation                      100       42       13       148                4.1
La Minita (Sinaloa)            1979 Jun   Flotation                      140       42       14       149                 6.5
Guanacevi (Durango)            1976 Oct   Flotation                      250      110       31       313               10.7
Pattonato de Zacatecas         1964       Flotation & Cyanidation        400       60        9       200                10.6
(Zacatecas)
TOTAL                                                1,410      419     102      1,439               47.1
Under Construction
Santa Rita  (Zacatecas)        1979 Nov   Flotation 6 Leaching           200       60        1        50                4.9
San Bernabe  (Durango)         1980 Sep   Flotation                      100       42       24       145                 3.8
Hermosillo  (Sonora)           1979 Oct   Flotation                      150       45       18       141                 8.5
Ocampo  (Chihuahua)            1980       Flotation                      100       42        9        62                 4.9
Pinzan Morado  (Guerrero)    1979 Oct   Flotation                        150       49        6        50                 3.5
Nueva Mercurio  (Zacatecas)  1979         Flotation                      150       58        4        40                 5.0
850     296       62       488                30.6
Projected
Choix (Sinaloa)               1980        Flotation                      100       42        8        84                 3.8
Badiraguato  (Sinaloa)         1980       Flotation                      100       42        7        90                 3.8
Julimes (Chihuahua)            1981       Flotation                      250       42        9        41                 6.5
Guadalupe y Calvo (Chihuahua)1980         Flotation                      100       42       11        50                 5.0
Chalchihuites  (Zacatecas)   1981         Flotation                      100       42       23       150                 4.7
650     220       58        415               23.8
TOTAL                                                2 910      935     222      2,342
1/  See map in Annex 14, C-1 for locations of regional beneficiation plants.
2/  At average prices of October, 1979
LCPI2, October 1979



- 84 -
ANNEX 14
T-8
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-8: CFM - Equity Participation in Subsidiaries and Affiliates, 1978-79
As of December 31, 1978
Operating CoLmpanies                                            % Equity Participation                   Total Equity          Share Capital
(Mex$'000)            (Mex$'000)
1.   Cia. de Real del Monte y Pachuca S.A.                                100.0                           298,500                246,000
2.   Macocc.zac, S.A.                                                     100.0                            34,511                  4,500
3.   Exportadora e Importadora de Minerales, S.A. de C.V.                  99.7                              6,679                 5,000
4.   Zincamfex, S.A.                                                       97.5                            179,089               221,325
5.   Roca Fosforiea Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.                                 92.3                           351,500                375,500
6.   Cia. Minera Santa Rosalia, S.A.                                       72.7                             17,402                70,750
7.   Azufrera Panamericana, S.A.                                           55.3                           561,906                460,000
8.   Sedemex, S.A. de C.V.                                                 65.8                              3,085                 3,000
9.   Cia. Explotadora del Istmo, S.A.                                      51.0                           325,351                270,000
10.  Exportadora de Sal, S.A.                                             51.0                            258,227                186,875
11.  Naviera Baja Bulk Carriers, S.A.                                      50.0                            33,196                     23 1/
12.  Transportadora de Sal S.A. (subs. of Exportadora de Sal)              51.0                            34,511                 20,000
13.  Refractarios Hidalgo, S.A. (subs. of Zincamex)                       83.0                             69,037                 75,000
14.  Fosforitas Mexicanas, S.A. (subs. of Zincamex/CFM)                    65.8                             8,927                 15,000
15.  Cia. Miinera Comonfort, S.A.                                         45.2                                 741                12,999
16.  Refractarios Mexicanos                                                33.3                           154,023                100,000
17.  Impulsora Minera de Angangueo, S.A. de C.V.                           33.3                            49,299                  4,500
18.  Explomin, S.A. de C.V. (start-up 1980)                                33.0                            70 ,750                70,750 2/
19.  Miners Lampazos, S.A. de C.V.                                         32.0                            60,883                 12,250
20.  Barrenas de Acero y Aguces, S.A.                                      31.0                            10,585                 11,800
21.  Asesoria Tecnica Industrial, S.A. de C.V.                             20.0                             4,237                  3,000
22.  <uimica Fluor, S.A. de C.V.                                           17.0                           724,466                399,125
23.  Exmex, S.A. de C.V.                                                   15.0                           (13,954)                 7,500
24.  Cia. Minera Cedros, S.A. de C.V.                                      15.0                            51,753                 10,000
25.  Cia. Minera de Cananea, S.A.                                          13.6                         1,213,946              1,200,000
26.  Minera Carbonifera de Rio Escondido, S.A. (start-up 1980)             12.0                            77, 240                77,240
27.  Cia. Minera Autlan, S.A. de C.V.                                       6.3                           811,000                330,000
28.  Mexicana de Cobre, S.A. (start-up 1979)                                6.0                           300,000                300,000
29.  Consorcio Minero Benito Juarez Pena Colorada, S.A.                     4.8                         1,022,399                624,817
wouipanies wi_z. gswcraons in Transition during 1979
1.   Cia. Minera Corzo, S.A. de C.V. 3/
2.   Cia. Culprifera La Verde, S.A. 4/
3.   Impulsora Minera e Industrial de Baja California, S.A. 5/
Companies L:iquidated or Absorbed into Existing Company tn-operation during 1979
1.   Jalumexc, S.A. de C.V.
2.   Estudios Mineros Japon-Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
3.   Comercial Carbonera, S.A.                                               Liquidated
4.   Minerales Submarinos Mexicanos, S.A.
5.   Cia. Minera La Pinuela, S.A.                                        _
6.   Azufres Nacionales Mexicanos, S.A. de C.V.                          -
7.   Azufres Mozalar, S.A. de C.V.                                           Absorbed by Azufrera Panamericana, S.A.
1/  Retained earnings and reserves were capitalized for December 31, 1979,  projections increasing share capital to about
Mex$34 million.
2/  Explomin operated in the past under the name of Cia. Real de Angeles.  Operations were suspended and now under CFM
this operation will get on-stream during 1980.
3/  Mine was closed, but is expected to be rehabilitated in view of the increase in silver prices (share capital of
Mex$3.8 million)
4/  Joint-venture with Lyttoii Minerals Ltd. (Canada).  Mex$60 million were spent in exploration of a copper mine, but project
was shelved due to poor ore grade. Project is now being re-examined due to improvement in copper prices.
3/ This company provides transportation facilities for Cia. Minera Santa Rosalia, S.A. (share capital of idex$2.l million
total equity as of uecember 31, 1978, amounts to Mex$147,000). Company is planned to be liquidated during 1980.
Januarv 19e-



- 85 -                             ANNEX 14
T-9
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-9: CFM - Technical Assistance Provided to Mines and Concentration Plants,
1977-79
1977          1978           1979
(Jan.-Aug.)
No. of Times Advice Provided on:
Identification of minerals                 2,831          3,035          3,723
Calculation of Pro-formas                  2,152          2,440          2,482
Transportation                             1,155            703            898
Mineral Exploitation                         953          1,127          1,060
Metallurgical problems                       478            644            618
Other problems                             2,897          3,390          2,917
Total                           10,466         11,339         11,698
No. of Times Sites Visited for:
Mineral exploitation                         855            969            761
Geological studies                           566            700            558
Metallurgical problems                       514            490            453
Economic or operational problems             327            454            447
Other problems                             1,682          1,579          1,192
Total                            3,944          4,192          3,411
LCPI2
October 1979



-86 -                       AN~NEX 14
T-10
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-10: CFM - Analysis of Financial Assistance Operations Outstanding 1/
for Small and Medium Scale Mining Enterprises
(As of December 31, 1978)
No. of              Amount
Credits      %     (Mex$'000)       %
1.   By Amount of Credit (Mex$'000)
Up     to        50.0                           150     26.0       3,594.9      1.0
50.1  "       100.0                           73      12.0       5,140.9      2.0
100.1  "       200.0                          103      18.0      15,391.4      5.0
200.1          500.0                          143      24.0      46,369.3    14.0
500.1  "    1,000.0                            51       9.0      34,188.9    11.0
1,000.1  "    2,000.0                             30      5.0      44,488.2    13.0
2,000.1  "    5,000.0                             27      4.0      78,408.3    24.0
5,000.1 and   over                                11      2.0      97,335.8    30.0
TOTAL                    588    100.0    324,917.7   100.0
2.  By Type of Operation
"Refaccionarios"                                93      16.0    201,863.5    62.0
Long Term Lease                                 352     60.0    112,287.1    35.0
Short-term Lease                                 73     12.0       3,308.4      1.0
"Mutuos"                                        38       7.0       5,898.0      2.0
Working Capital                                  32      5.0       1,560.7       -
TOTAL                    588    100.0    324,917.7   100.0
3.  By Amount of Crude Ore Mined
Up     to        50.0  tpd.                     509     87.0    211,022.8    65.0
50.1   "       100.0                            35      6.0      22,780.6      7.0
100.1   "       250.0   "                        42      7.0      73,710.8    23.0
250.1   "       500.0   "                         2       -       17,403.5      5,0
TOTAL                    588    100.0    324,317.7   100.0
1, *t  q11e of Finr  (wMeX  'fnor) 21
Up      to   5,000.0                            470     80.0    139,136.2    43.0
5,000.1  "   10,000.0                             38      6.0      38,206.1    12.0
10,000.1  "   20,000.0                             51      9.0      75,234.4    23.0
20,000.1  "   50,QOO.0                             16       3.0     40,753.4    13.0
50,000.1  "  100,000.0                              6       1.0     15,567.0      4.0
100,000.1  "  150,000.0                              7       1.0     16,020.6      5.0
TOTAL                     588    100.0    324,917.7   100.0
5.  By Type of Project  3/
New Project                                   292     50.0      91,440.6    28.0
Expansion                                     296     50.0    233,477.1    72.0
TOTAL                           100.0    324,917.7   100.0
6.  By Zones  4/
Zone I                                       249      42.0      86,518.8    27.0
Zone II                                      316      54.0    222,319.3    68.0
Zone III-A                                    13       2.0      10,291.5      3.0
Zone III-B                                    10       2.0       5,788.1      2.0
Rest of Mexico                               588    100.0    324,917.7   100.0
1/  Excluding 'anticipos' and 'pignoraciones.'
2/  Based on sales as per latest annual report before loan was approved.
3/  New project includes restoration of old mines not currently operating and expansion considers
mines already in operation.
4/  Following the new decentralization Law of 1978.
LCPI2
October 1979



- R7 -                         ANNEX 14
T-11
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-11: CFM - Size Structure of Fixed Asset Credits and Long-term
Equipment Leasing Operations (as of December 31, 1978)
No. of              Amount
Credits     %      Mex$'000)       %
1. Fixed Asset Credits
(Ammount of Credit in Mex$'000)
Up     to       50.0                            2      2.0          55.9       -
50.1  "      100.0                            4       4.0         293.7      _
100.1  "      200.0                             5      5.0         752.9      -
200.1  "      500.0                           20      22.0       6,386.9     3.0
500.1  "    1,000.0                           18      13.0       9,088.1      5.0
1,000.1  "    2,000.0                            18     19.0      26,395.9    13.0
2,000.1  "    5,000.0                            21     23.0      61,554.1    31.0
5,000.1  "    Over                               11     12.0      97,336.0    48.0
TOTAL              93    100.0                  100.0
2. Long-term Equipment Leasing
(Value of the Lease Contract in
Mex$'000)
Up     to    -50.0                             73    21.0        1,959.6    2.0
50.1  "     100.0                             42    12.0        2,941.0    3.0
100.1  "     200.0                             61    17.0        9,223.7    8.0
200.1  "     500.0                            114    32.0       38,692.3   34.0
500.1  "   1,000.0                             44    13.0       24,524.0   22.0
1,000.1  " 2,000.0                               12      3.0      18,092.3   16.0
2,000.1  "   2,000o0                              6      2.0      16,854.2   15.0
5,000.1  and Over
TOTAL                    352   100.0      112,287.1  100.0
*__   ==         flfl        *_ Sf
LCPI2
October 1979



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-12; CFM - Analysis of Arrears and Reschedulinga in
Loan Portfolio as of June 30, 1979 4/
Number of           Principal        Principal          Principal in      Distribution
Credits       %    Disbursed        Oustanding             Arrears        of Arrears
Amount in    z    Amount in    %        over 3 mos.
(Mex$)             (Mex$)                  %
A.  Current (including loans with            469     61.5   378,192.1   332,441.4    74.8
arrears of less than 3 months)
B. Loans with arrears of over 3 months
3 - 6 months                           149      19.6    54,614.5    45,761.5    10.3   19,144.9   4.3             53.9
6 -12 months                            96      12.6    64,560.4    54,428.4    12.2    7,700.2   1.7             21.7
12 -24 months                            44       5.8    13.417.0    11,011.3       2.5    7,681.8   1.7           21.6
More than 24 months                      4       0.5      1,187.6      1,057.6      0.2    1,013.3   2.3           2.8
Total Arrears over 3 months         293      38.5   133,779.5   112,258.8    25.2   35,540.2   8.0            100.0         X
C.  Total-Current and in Arrears             762    100.0   511,971.6   444,700.2   100.0
D.  Of which Rescheduled during 1979           3              11,511.3      9,773.8      2.2
1/ Excluding 'Anticipos" and 'pogroraciones' (ore advances) which are short-term ore advances and very rarely are
associated with any arrears problems.
LCPI2
October, 1979
,i3



- 89 -                                          ANNEX 14
T-13
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-13: CFM - Past and Projected Balance Sheets, 1978-82
(Millions of MexS as of December 31 of the Years)
Audited                                     Projected
1977          1978           1979           1980           1981         1982
ASSETS
Current
Cash, In Banks and Negotiable
Instruments                                            48.6           52.5           56.0          56.0            70.0        65.0
Accounts Receivable (Net of Provisions)                100.2          189.3          215.0         220.0           270.0       330.0
Short-term Credit Receivables                           34.5           65.8           98.0         234.0           302.0       370.0
Due from Subsidiaries and Affiliates                   142.9           42.6           50.0          60.0            70.0        80.0
Other Short-term assets                                 26.4          228.3           21.0          20.0            30.0        40.0
Subtotal                                         352.6          638.5          440.0         590.0           732.0      885.0
Loan and Equitv Portfolio                                 37.0           73.5           76.0         124.0           192.0       295.0
Loans                                                   50.9          174.4          286.0         397.0           524.0       678.0
Equity Investments (in Subsidiaries
and Affiliates)                                     1,158.3        1,925.1        2,865.0       3,735.0         4,755.0    5,895.0
Subtotal                                       1,208.2        2,099.5       3,201.0       4,192.0          5,349.0    6,653.0
Fixed Assets
Plant, Equipment, Other                                231.6          319.3          807.0       1,627.0         1,981.0    2,354.0
Machinery and Equipment Leased                          70.5           89.4          159.0         229.0           290.0       370.0
Laboratory Equipment                                     0.9            1.3            2.0           9.0            15.0        20.0
Less Accumulated Depreciation                        (86.3)        (104.3)        (114.0)       (164.0)         (306.0)    (365.0)
Subtotal                                         216.7          305.7          854.0         170.1         1,972.0    2,379.0
Other Assets                                              59.8           48.7           24.0          35.0            38.0        42.0
Total Assets                                   1,874.3        3,165.9        4,469.0       6,582.0         8,213.0   10,174.0
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current
Credits from Suppliers                                18.8           25.7           33.0          33.0            50.0        50.0
Loans from NAFINSA                                    16.9           13.6           20.0          25.0            30.0        35.0
Other current liabilities                             82.0          112.0           78.0          73.0           106.0       180.0
117.7          151.3          131.0         131.0           186.0       265.0
Long-term Liabilities (Incl.)
Resources under Special Program)                        33.8           80.4           91.0         226.0           614.0       850.0
Deferred Liabilities                                       60.6           95.2           84.0        105.0            150.0      200.0
Total Liabilities                                212.1          326.9          175.0         371.0           764.0    1,050.0
Equity and Earnings
Share Capital                                      1,311.0        2,643.7        2,844.0       4,180.0         6,085.0    7,286.0
Retained Earnings                                    351.2          195.3        1,319.0       1,900.0         1,128.0    1,591.0
Subtotal                                       1,662.2        2,839.0        4,163.0       6,080.0         7,263.0    8,860.0
TOTAL                                          1,874.3        3,165.9        4,469.0       6,582.0         8,213.0   10,174.0
LCPI2
October 1979



- 90 -
ANNEX 14
T-14
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-14:  CFM - Audited Income Statements,1977-78
(in millions of Mex$)
Audited
1977          1978
INCOME
Interest on Loans                             2.0          11.9
Equipment Leasing                             0.4          12.5
Dividends from Equity Investments            31.0         147.8
Income From Laboratory                        2.4           3.2
Sales of Mineral Concentrates                29.3          47.1
Production Subsidies                         10.5           0.6
Processing Fees from Beneficiation
Plants                                     20.5          24.0
Sales of Coal                                22.4          92.6
Internas de Azufre                           66.5           -
Other Income                                 20.0          48.5
TOTAL                                205.0          388.0
EXPENSES
Salaries and Administrative                  53.5          91.2
Direct Technical Assistance                  14.5          17.5
Exploration and Research                      0.5           0.8
Financial Expenses                            6.7           7.4
Mines and Beneficiation plants
(Operating Expenses)                         76.6         101.2
Laboratory (operating expenses)                             0.5
Depreciation                                  3.9           6.2
Cost of Coal Sales                           17.2          79.1
Selling Expenses                              0.9           1.1
Other                                         6.2           3.3
TOTAL                                180.0         308.3
OPERATING INCOME EXCLUDING ROYALTIES, Etc.  25.0             79.7
ROYALTIES, Commissions, etc.                   70.8         112.0
Subsidies from Federal Gov't                  255.5           4.1
NET INCOME                               351.2         195.4
LCPI2
October 1979



MEXICO:  SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-15:  FMNM - Summary of Past and Projected Financing to SMM, 1976-82
(in thousands of Mexican pesos)
Type of Financing 1/                  Actual                      Estimated                 Projected
1976         1977          1978         1979          1980          1981          1982
Fixed Asset Credits        20,018           277        4,140        30,900       40,000        70,000        85,000
Equipment Leases with
Option to Purchase           -             -            -            9,000       25,000        45,000        55,000
Permanent Working Capital  3,849            990        3,895        15,000       11,000        16,000        22,000
Industrial Mortgage 2/       -             -            -             -          28,600        48,800        65,600
Other Credits 3/                                                                   7,200        9,000        13,000
TOTAL                23,867        1,267         8,035       54,900       111,800       188,800       240,600
1/   Historical data include credits to subsidiaries, however, projected financing accounts only for credit
to third parties excluding subsidiaries.
2/   Industrial Mortgage consists of a credit for purchase of equipment, machinery and civil construction
with full guarantee, i.e., mortgageoperations.
3/   Other Credits consider operations which were not developed in the past, like. e.g., ore evaluation,
are reserve development credits, advances and "pignoraciones".
I-n
43 B



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-16: PMNM - Summary of Existing and Projected Regional Beneficiation Plants
No. of Mines dlvg. crude ore                                                         Estimated Gross
No. on Payroll          Planned to be operated by                     No. on Payroll       Minerals         Annual Production 2/
Regional Plants             Start-up Date            Process           Capacity         at Plant            Ejido       Private      FMNMM        Total        at Mines          treated          (in USS thousands)
Locations (Statec) 1/
Plants with tolling
Arrangements 3/
Puebla                      November 1980       Milling and clas-       100 TPD             20                 3           1            _           4              60          Talc, Calcite,            1,400
sifying                                                                                                                        Gypsum, Barite.
Jalisco                     October 1981        Milling and clas-       100 TPD             20                 1           4            -           5              70          Barite                    2,600
sifying
Durango                     April 1983          Cutting and
polishing              500 m2/day           70                1            6            1           8             80           Marble                    4,800
Plants with Purchasing
Arrangemnts 4/
Veracruz                    February 1981       Milling and clas-        70 TPD             40                10           -            -           10            150          Kaolin                    1,200
sifying
Sonora                      July 1982           Centrifugacion           30 TPD             70                -            3            2           5              60          Fiber Glass
Total                                                                                220                15          14             3          32            420
1/    See Annex 14, C-1 for locations of regio-al beneficiation plants.  FMNM has no regional beneficiation plant presently in operation or under construction, all those plants presented in the
above table were projected for 1980/83.
2/    Average prices of October 1979.
3/    Plants with tolling arrangements ("maquila" charges) to deliver treated ore back to miner for sale or FMNM subsidiaries will handle marketing for miners.
4/    Plants with purchasing arragements to purchase crude ore from miner at stipulated prices for marketing.                                                                                                            N



MEXICO:  SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT           1/
T-17: FMNM - Equity Participation in Subsidiaries (As at June 30, 1979)
(Mex$'000)
Projected
Subsidiaries                    Start-up Date         Total       Invested      Share                Shareholders               %
Investment   To Date      Capital
SONOCAL, S.A. de C.V.             September 77      143,801       104,210      82,300      FMNM                              100.0
Minerales No Metalicos
de Guerrero, S.A. de C.V.       September 78       39,162        38,387       23,250    FMNM                                81.0
Promotora Industrial del
Balsas, S.A. de C.V.              15.5
State of Guerrero                  1.9
Refractarios Hidalgo, S.A.          0.8
Zincamex, S.A.                     0.8
Marmoles del Valle del
Mezquital, S.A. de C.V.         November 76        49,700        28,365       39,000    FMNM                               100.0    w
Grafito de Mexico,S.A. de C.V.  In Construction
December 79        55,276        51,158       37,000    FMNM                                89.2
Comunidad San Francisco
Telix Tlahuaca ('Ejido)           10.8
Barita de Sonora, S.A. de C.V. In Construction
January 80        120,000        40,267       62,000    FMNM                               100.0
1/ At present, there are no companies in which FMNM holds a minority equity participation.
LCPI2
October, 1979
x4



-       1            ~                                     ,co00
0f ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ o oc-cLc.H                            0'a
= ~ ~    ~    ~    0       0,' _0 3,   00 .000c0o0  O  . ,X
.. v O = 000    HO                          H   - -Oo0oOOO
-          ,N              oO      OX O   *0,  0    001 000  00 0'   0
-                 .00        H oO Oo _   HOrO       n, 0.   _ =0   u0 000
0    0 :          -0       0-0        0-0       0- OoOI .:n          > '
r1       '-:  0      0-0-'    0-0          0> -0    0- 000
0    (0  O.            '1         00'         00        00*0 *'                     0 
0   0         0         00       '10            0      0.0                -
0 .                     0        -/ c                      * 0             0.
0.0 w    fO                                                                                              0, S 
0t  3    '=    o -                      I>       =,
_3'       0                                                                                      a
0                                                                                 Hc           a
0.   0                                                                           0            0    0l  w0, _ ~ x 
0   30           (O0 0  n _-| o|U         r        
0,i  0                                                                                         O,       ' r
0    0                                                                          '1            n0     a
0L  0C                                                                          00             0 
0                 ,= ~                                                          0(01>
0m                 S          -I          I                            00,
0W                                                                                         2  WS rD Q    tDDt.   
0                                                                                          0-  0        D=r   
0I-                                                                                  0. -_ '-         0D   
01     0i                                                                                                 D00-Dn    
~~ 86   ~ ~    ~ ~           (                   "



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVFLOPMENT PROJECT
T-19: FMNM - Analysis of Arrears and Reschedulings in Credit Portfolio as
of June 30, 1979
(in Mex$ thousands)
Number of             Principal         Principal          Principal in         Distribution
Credits       %     Disbursed         Outstanding            Arrears            of Arrears
Amount in         "  Amount in    %       over  3 months
(M4ex$)              (Mex$)         __%
FIXED ASSETS CREDITS
A.   Current (including loans with            5         45.5    31,109.0          26,531.4    92.4
Arrears of less than 3 months)
B.   Loans with Arrears of Over 3 Months
3  -  6 months 
6  - 12 months                         1          9.1      1,108.6            246.1      0.9      246.1    0.9            28.1
12  - 24 months                         2         18.2         885.0           787.7      2.7      295.3    1.0            33.7
More than 24 months                      1          9.1        9783.1          892.9       3.1      334.8    1.2           38.2
Total Arrears Over 3 Months         4         36.4      2,972.7          1,926.7      6.7      876.2    3.1           100.0
C.   Loans Rescheduled                        2         18.1      1,413.9            260.8      0.9
D.   Total (A+B+C.)                          11        100.0    35,49;.6          28,718.9   100.0
WORRING CAPITAL CREDITS                                                                                                                                     %.0
A.   Current (including loans with
Arrears of less than 3 Months)         3         30.0      9,933.7          9,933.7    81.0
B.   Loans with Arrears of Over 3 Months
3  -  6 months                         1         10.0        300.0            300.0      2.5      300.0    2.5            12.9
6  - 12 months                         3         30.0         '11.0           255.3      2.1      255.3    2.1            11.0
12  - 24 months                         3         30.0      4,052.0         1,772.9    14.4   1,772.9   14.4               76.1
More than 24 months
Total Arrears Over 3 Months        7         70.0      4,863.0          2,328.2    19.0   2,328.2   19.0            100.L
C.   Loans Rescheduled                        -           -        -                  -          -        -         -             -
D.   Total (A+B+C)                           10        100.0    14,796.7          12,261.9   100.0
LCPI2
October, 1979
I.-



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-20: FMNM - Analysis of Arrears and Reschedulings in
Consolidated Credit Portfolio as of June 30, 1979
(in Mex$ Thousand)
Number of            Principal        Principal            Principal in        Distribution
Credits       %     Disbursed        Outstanding             Arrears           of Arrears
Amount in        &   Amount in        %    Over 3 Months
(Mex$)               (Mex$)
A.   Current (including loans with   1/   8            38.1    41,042.7         36,465.1    89.0
Arrears of less than 3 months) -
B.   Loans with Arrears of Over 3 months
3  -  6 months                       -           _          -                 _                       -                 -
6  - 12 months                       2          9.5      1,408.6           546.1      1.3      546.1                   1.3
12  - 24 months                        5        23.8      1,397.0         1,043.0       2.6     550.6                    1.3
More than 24 months                    4        19.1      5,030.1          2,665.8      6.5   2,107.7                    5.2   6
Total Arrears Over 3 Months   11           52.4      7,835.7         4,254.9    10.4   3,204.4                     7.8
C.   Loans Rescheduled 2/                    2          9.5     1,413.9            260.8      0.6
D.   Total (A+B+C)                          21         100     50,292.3         40,980.8   100.0
LCPI2
October, 1979
x



-97                                INNEX  14
T-2 1
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-21: pWM - Audited and Projected Balance Sheets, 1977-81
(in Mex$ million)
Audited                         Projected
1977     1978         1979      1980      1981      1982
ASSETS
Current
Cash and Banks                        3.2       1.0          2.7       0.5       0.7      0.8
Negotiable Investments               12.6       6.8         15.1      10.3      12.4     15.4
Accounts Receivable                   9.7      17.5          6.9       8.0      21.7     35.0
Sub-Total                        25.5      25.3         24.7     18.8      34.8      51.2
Portfolio Investments
Loans                                20.2      25.7         67.1    135.9    273.7    405.3
Equity Investments
(in subsidiaries)                  151.0    151.1         322.4    524.0    746.0  1,001.9
Sub-Total                       171.2    176.8         389.5    659.9  1,019.7  1,407.2
Fixed Assets
In Transit                            4.1       3.2          -         -        -         -
Fixed Asset (gross)                   5.6      10.4         48.5      96.5    148.9    207.4
Depreciation                          (17)    (3.1)        (14.0)   (29.4)   (53.5)   (83.9)
Sub-Total                         8.0      10.5         34.5     67.1      95.4    123.5
Projects in Development                  4.8     19.1         72.1    139.0    212.0    100.2
Others                                   0.4      0.6          0.7       1.0       1.1       1.5
Total Assets                    209.9    232.3         521.5    884.8  1,363.0  1,683.6
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current Liabilities                      3.9      8.6         13.7       7.9      21.7     54.2
Long-Term Liabilities (incl.
Resources under special program).   -           -            -        42.5    117.6    179.8
Deferred Liabilities                     2.9      3.4          -         -         -         -
Total Liabilities                 6.8      12.0         13.7     50.4    139.3    234.0
Equity                                203.1    220.3         507.8    834.4  1,223.7  1,449.6
TOTAL                           209.9    232.3         521.5    884.8  1,363.0  1,683.6
LCPI2



- 98 -
ANNEX 14
T-22
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-22: FMNM - Audited and Projected Income Statements, 1977-82
Audited                  Projected
1977   1978      1979   1980   1981   1982
Income 1/
Interest on Loans                               3.5    2.5       6.8   11.8   27.2   46.0
Interest on Marketable Securities               0.2    1.5       1.0    1.5    1.5    2.0
Technical Service                               -      -         3.0    5.1    6.8    8.9
Leasing & Rental                                0.1    0.5       0.5    3.0    9.9   17.1
l'otal                                    3.8    4.5       11.3   21.4   45.4   74.0
Expenses
Financial Expenses                              -      -         -       3.8    9.9   16.8
Salaries and Personnel Expenses               10.8   12.6       15.0   29.7   37.1   46.4
Other Administrative Expenses                   4.6    5.8       6.0   12.3   15.4   19.2
Denreciation                                    0.8    1.4      10.9   15.6   24.2   30.6
Total                                    16.2   19.8       31.9   61.4   86.6  113.0
Net Expenses Covered                          (12.4) (15.3)   (20.6) (40.0) (41.2) (39.0)
Through Budget or from
Net Equity
1/ Dividends of subsidiaries were conservatively not projected by FMNM, assuming
that they are all reinvested.
LCPI2



MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
T-23: Estimated Distribution of Commitments of Resources by Program Component and by Year
Year 1                             Year 2                          Year 3 (Partial)                                   TOTAL
Total           Bank               Total            Bank                Total            Bank                Total             Bank              % Bank
Financing        Financing          Financing         Financing          Financing        Financing           Financing         Financing          Financing
CFM
(l) Credits
Fixed assets                                      200              80                   263             105                322               129                785               314                40.0
Working capital                                    20              -                     26              -                   33               -                  79                -                  0
Ore reserve development                            20              -                     20              -                   30               -                  70                -                  0
Subtotal                                   240              80                   309             105                 385              129                934               314                33.6
(2) Equipment Leasing                                      131              59                   167              75                222               100               520                234               44.0
(3) Regional Beneficiation Plants                           62              20                    79              25                 97                31               238                 76                32.0
(4) Technical Assistance
Laboratory equipment                               33              15                    25              11                  11                5                 69                31                45.0
Training, consultants, etc.                         2              -                      2              -                    1               -                   5                _                  0
Subtotal                                     35              15                    27              11                  12                5                 74                 31               41.9
TOTAL                                   468             174                   582             216                716               265             1,766                655               37.1
FMNM
(1) Credits
Fixed assets                                            70              28                    80              32                 95                38               245                 98               40.0
Working capital                                          7              -                      8              -                  10                -                 24                 -                 0
Ore reserve development                                                                        5             _                    5                -                 10                 -                 0          1
Subtotal                                       77             28                    93               32                110               38                279                 98               35.1       `0
(2) Equipment Leasing                                       36              16                    44              20                 58                26               138                 62               45.0
(3) Regional Beneficiation Plants                           41              13                    41              13                  34               11               116                 37                32.0
(4) Technical Assistance
Laboratory equipment & training                    -               -                      4               2                   5                2                  9                 4               45.0
TOTAL                                 154               57                  181              67                 207                77               542               201                37.1
CRM
Technical Assistance
Laboratory equipment                               13               6                    27              12                 13                 6                53                 24               45.0
Exploration Equipment                                               9                    33              15                 36                16                89                 40               45.0
Technical Specialists, training, e4c.               4                                    4               0                   2                0                 10                                   0
TOTAL                                   37             15                    64               27                 51               22                152                 64               42.1
GRAND TOTAL                            2,460                920               37.4
LCPI2
lanuary 1980



- 100 -                             ANNEX 15
MEXICO: SMALL AND MEDIUM SCALE MINING DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. On the mining sector
1. Mexico: Mining Sector, Consultant's Report written by Mr. Wolfgang E.Benze,
March 1979
2. Report of the Mining Sector Review Mission, prepared by Messrs. Kaupisch (IPD)
Mill and Benze (Consultants)
3. "La Produccion de Compresores En Mexico"1, Report No. 2 of the NAFINSA-UNIDO
Capital Goods Project, published by NAFINSA-UNIDO, Mexico, 1979
4. 1974 Industrial Census Statistics, published by Direcci6n General de
Estad'stica, Mexico and its 'Reglamento'
5. Mining Law of 1975
6. Several Maps, showing locations of the principal mineral deposits,
beneficiation plants and smelters, published by Comision de Fomento
Minero, 1977
B. On the Implementing Agencies
1. Memoria Sexenal 1970-1976, published by Comision de Fomento Minero, 1977
2. Operating Regulations of the Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos
C. On the Project
1. 'Documento Basico de Programa Especial Complementaria de Apoyo a la
Pequefia y Mediana Minera (PECAM) (Basic Document of the Special
Complementary Program for Small and Medium Mining).
2. Report on the Proposed Small and Medium Mining Development Project,
Consultant's report prepared by Mr. William Hill, June 1979.
3.  Estimation of Foreign Exhcnage Content of the Various Project Components,
Mission analyses, September-October 1979.
LCPI2



Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2     . .C,'tOQ
Q it .. S== C . .   ! t iX .. t X 0N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2
;  dL  t  0  ay    2      R         L)              z   t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  
0  0-  =1      2         < =  <1G  r;/!'                T                Det@s~~222  - 
00    //   *[   {' 05 tf  0     0\00   5                 2Z  2 LC  Q 2 9L   z'   _'2  2
I-/   -                                                   t O  - j O < 5 <1 s m  >, <  s a     tJ~2 2 
L ;;0-- 3'; ----                                   <                                                        j - w~'



