iR,NT S  LOAN NUMBER 1820 ME
Project Agreement
(Small- and Medium-Scale
Mining Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CONSEJO DE RECURSOS MINERALES
Dated                             , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1820 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      aa4,tI                   , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSIUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and CONSEJO DE RECURSOS MINERALES (herein-
after called CRM), established pursuant to a law of the Guarantor
issued on December 31, 1955.
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million dollars
($40,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that, inter alia, CRM agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS CRM, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part C of the Project;
Management and Operations of CRM
Section 2.01. CRM shall carry out Part C of the Project,
described in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, and conduct its
operations and affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate economic, financial and investment
standards and practices, and with experienced personnel.
Section 2.02. CRM shall enter into the contractual arrange-
ments with the Borrower referred to in Section 4.01 (c) of the


﻿-2-
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CRM
shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrange-
ments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for Parts C.1
and C.2 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) CRM undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods for Part
C of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
transferred to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by CRM to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CRM shall
cause all goods and services for Part C of the Project financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for such Part of the Project.
Section 2.05. CRM shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of Part C of the Project, to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to it by the
Borrower and to disclose their use in Part C of the Project.
Section 2.06. CRM shall operate and maintain, or cause to be
operated and maintained, all the facilities included in Part C of
the Project, and shall, promptly as needed, make, or cause to be
made, all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accor-
dance with sound appropriate practices.
Section 2.07. CRM shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. CRM shall maintain, or cause to be maintained,
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently


﻿-3-
maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of CRM.
Section 3.02. CRM shall: (i) have an audit, satisfactory to
the Bank, made of the accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
of CRM for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent and
qualified auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
CRM and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and CRM shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purpos-s of the Loan will be accomplished. To that
end, the Bank and CRM shall from time to time, at the request of
either party, exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the performance
by CRM of its obligations under this Agreement, the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of CRM and other matters
relating to the purpose of the Loan.
(b) CRM shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures of
the proceeds of the Loan transferred to it by the Borrower and
Part C of the Project.
(c) CRM shall cooperate fully with the Guarantor in the
preparation of the report required under Section 3.06 of the
Guarantee Agreement.
Section 4.02. CRM shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
.the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance
by CRM of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 4.03. CRM shall enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effec-
tive.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of CRM thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-5-
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For CRM:
Consejo de Recursos Minerales
Ave. Niffos Heroes 139 Esq. Dr. Navarro
Mexico, D.F.
Telex:
1775690DUIAME
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of or by CRM may be taken or executed by
its Director General, or by such other person or persons as its
Director General shall designate in writing, and CRM shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin  merica and the Caribbean
CONSEJO DE RECURSOS MINERALES
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
for Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and4rks to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CRM shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for .the goods and works in question. CRM shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
supplied goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
domestically manufactured or supplied goods, offered in such bid;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection
with the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in
connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation of the
bids; and (iii) the cost to CRM of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installai.ion shall be included.
4.   Account will be taken of the availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts in the territory of the Guarantor for
imported goods.


﻿-7-
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Mexico and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group k: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿-8-
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Any single contract for goods and civil works estimated to
cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent or any contract for goods or
civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent may be
procured on the basis of the Guarantor's ordinary procurement
procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
l   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to any contract for goods and civil works
estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more or any contract
for goods or civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more;
(a) Before bids are invited, CRM shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request in
consultation with CRM. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued
to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CRM
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the reasons of the intended
award, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform CRM and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-9-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to sending
to the Bank the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
CRM shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to sending to the Bank the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform CRM and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L2      day of j   ., 1910.
FOR SECRETARY


