                                     People's Republicof Bangladesh

                                 Post-FloodRecovery Assistance Program
                   ProposedAmendments to Five Development Credit Agreements


 A.      Background

 1.      Overview of the Floods. Bangladesh, one of the world's most vulnerable countries to
natural disasters, experienced devastating floods between July and September 2004 that caused
 almost 800 deaths and significant damage to housing, vital infrastructure, and the agriculture sector.
The main wave of flooding started in early July, when heavy monsoon rains swelled the waters of
the Meghna River. By the time the waters began to recede inearly August, approximately 38 percent
of Bangladesh, includingDhaka, had been inundated. In September, a localized monsoon depression
brought additional flooding in some of the already-affected areas and new flooding in the southwest
and central parts of the country.

2.       Government Response. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) did a commendable job in
responding to the flood emergency and assisting the affected population. It rapidly organized
emergency rescue and relief operations, opened emergency shelters and deployed medical teams.
The Government also distributed seeds, provided cash grants and roofing material, and accelerated
the Vulnerable Group Feeding (VGF) program. To help restore the livelihood of affected families,
the Government quickly started a number of programs, including food-for-work and cash-for-work
schemes,

3.       Community, NGO and International Response. Affected communities rapidly started to
repair and rebuild their housing and to find ways to restore their livelihoods. Non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) provided food, health supplies and services, water, and other basic necessities
to thousands of families throughout the country. BRAC, one of the largest national NGOs, has
created two loan programs, and the Bangladesh Red Crescent Society helped reconstruct 1,000
homes and provided agricultural inputs, such as seeds, to 30,000 rural families.

4.      UN agencies effectively supported the Government's relief efforts. In addition, the UN
Disaster Management Team (UNDMT) and the UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination
( W A C ) team, which i s directly under the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
(OCHA), were timely deployed. The UN also launched a Flash Appeal, raising US$76 million for
immediate rehabilitation needs.' The Local Consultative Group (LCG) in Bangladesh established a
Disaster and Emergency Response (DER) sub-group, which helped coordinate the emergency
response of donors and international agencies and conducted a rapid damage and needs assessment.
To assist in the recovery effort, the UN Development Program (UNDP) deployed a team from its
Bureau of Crisis Prevention and Recovery (BCPR). Several bilateral donors, including U SAID,
AUSAID, the Government of Norway, DFID, CIDA, SIDA, JICA, and the EUcontributed resources
for post-flood relief programs, which were mostly channeled through NGOs.

5.      Bank Response. Responding to the Government's request for assistance, the World Bank
established a cross-sectoral Flood Response Team, which jointly with the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), carried out in September 2004 an assessment of damage and needs related to the floods, and
helped formulate a recovery program. Each institution also discussed with the Government the ways

' Thisamount includes contributions from governments, NGOs, international agencies and private sector. According to
  OCHA, contributions to the 2004 floods inBangladeshtotaledUS$101million, including the FlashAppeal.

                                                      2


 inwhich assistance would be phased and financed. The assessment, which was carried out in close
 collaboration with GOB, included field visits to a sample o f affected districts and consultation with
 NGOs, donors, academics, and the private sector. The joint ADB-World Bank Report (circulated
 separately) was shared in draft with the Government in mid-November 2004, and finalized in
 January 2005 after receiving Government comments. This report includes detailed social, economic,
 environmental and sector-specific assessments.

 6.       The overall post-flood Bank assistance has been agreed with GOB on the basis o f the
 damage and needs assessment. The initial program, detailed below, will be supported through the
 reallocation o f existing credits funds, following OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance). Bank
 assistance i s underpinned by a long-term and comprehensive hazard risk management approach,
 buildingupon and directly supporting (a) national capacity for immediate post-disaster response and
 recovery, and long-term multi-hazard risk management; (b) donor initiatives developed over the
 years to complement government and civil society's efforts; and (c) Bank experience in supporting
 post-disaster recovery and hazardmanagement inBangladesh and inother counties.

 Social, Environmental,andEconomicImpact of the Floods

 7.       Preliminary estimates indicate that the total impact o f the floods, including asset and output
 losses, was about US$2.3 billion, constituting 4 percent o f GDP. Of this total, about US$1.35 billion
 correspond to lost assets and US$930 million to lost outputs. The country suffered the most damage
 inhousing, transport infrastructure, schools and education centers, individual and community water
 and sanitation facilities, as well as crops, fisheries, and livestock. Public sector accounts for 43
percent o f asset losses. Most o f the output losses were experienced by the private sector, due
primarily to the impact o f the flood on the agriculture sector.

 8.       Social Impact.Nationwide, 36 millionpeople (about 25 percent o f the population) across 39
districts were affected by the floods. Households living in areas o f northeast Bangladesh near major
rivers experienced the longest and generally the most severe floods. Women and children were
particularly vulnerable during the floods, facing, among others, challenges to ensure their physical
security in urban shelters and adequate nutrition. Almost 900,000 families were made homeless and
over 3 million more suffered damages to their houses. Two million acres o f agricultural land were
affected. In relative terms, the overall incidence o f diarrheal disease following the flood shows a
declining trend (compared to 1998). However, urban slum dwellers living in poorly-drained areas
suffered from long periods o f standing water that increased the risk o f diarrheal disease, especially
among children. Flood waters also reduced income and employment opportunities o f many
households, who, to a great extent, resorted to informal loans at high interest rates to cope with the
emergency. More specifically, about 2 million workers, including the rural poor, farmers, day
laborers, rickshaw pullers, small traders, and fishermen, lost work for an average o f 40 days. Factory
workers and day laborers suffered income losses due to disruption o f industrial activities in many
districts.

9.       EnvironmentalImpact.The floods exacerbated, and often triggered riverbank erosion, soil
erosion, water logging, and water contamination that increased health risks. Riverbank erosion and
soil erosion were exacerbated, especially along major rivers. Water logging, which was often
contaminated, contributed to health risks, particularly inthe urbanized flood-prone areas.

10.      Economic Impact. Bangladesh's economy has become more resilient to the effects o f
floods, as a result inpart o f consistently sound fiscal and macroeconomic performance. Inaddition to
the flood impact, however, the country faces in FY05 the initial effects of the phasing out of the
Multi-Fiber Arrangement (MFA). Under these circumstances, Bangladesh is not expected to

                                                       3


 increase, or even maintain the GDP growth rate o f 5.5 percent achieved in FY04. On the positive
 side, the GDP growth rate will likely fall a few points only, to about 5.2 percent. Importantly,
 delayed Aman rice planting and flood-induced setbacks in other food crops have resulted in higher
 inflation. The balance o f payments position may marginally deteriorate, but Bangladesh will be able
 to absorb the related pressure on foreign exchange reserves due to a relatively comfortable reserve
 position and its floating exchange rate regime.

 11.      On the other hand, the budget deficit in FY05 is likely to expand significantly. The relief
 effort, expansion infood-assisted safety nets, repairing damage to public property, and the impact o f
 floods on economic growth are likely to put pressure on both public expenditure and tax revenues.
 The overall budget deficit can be expected to rise from 3.2 percent o f GDP inFY04 to 4.7 percent in
 FY05, incontrast to the pre-flood target o f 4.3 percent.

 Recovery and Financing Needs

 12.      The projected financing needs o fthe public sector relatedto rehabilitationandreconstruction
 o f physical infrastructure range between US$670 and US$715 million, depending on the level o f
 improved standards that are applied during implementation. Financial resources, which are more
 difficult to estimate, are also needed to help the poor and vulnerable recover from the floods, and
 ensure speedy recovery o f the agriculture sector.

 13.     Itis estimated that GOB hasreallocatedTk 24 billionor US$410 million(about 7 percent of
total) from the revenue budget to ensure livelihood restoration, agriculture rehabilitation, and rapid
repair o f critical infrastructure and facilities. Some o f the activities undertaken include
implementation o f a comprehensive agriculture rehabilitation program to assist farmers with
recovery o f losses through provision o f free seed, seedlings and fertilizer, as well as provision o f
cash grants and microcredit to affected families. It i s thus critical to ensure that commodities and
goods requiredfor quick recovery are available inthe country.

 14.     Importantly, the resources redirected by GOB from the revenue budget to implement
unexpected immediate rehabilitation needs have reduced the funds allocated for operations and
maintenance (O&M) o f infrastructure and other assets. Specifically, nine line ministries redirected
Tk12.45 billion (about US$210 million) from their FY05 allocations for regular O&M to carry out
repair and immediate rehabilitation o f the damaged facilities and infrastructure. It i s necessary to
helpclose this gap within this fiscal year, as expeditiously as possible, inorder to ensure sustainable
recovery, which requires ensuring continued maintenance o f existing assets in addition to
reconstruction o f critical infrastructure and facilities to improvedhazard-resistant standards.

B.       The ProposedPost-FloodRecovery Approach and Program

15.      The proposed recovery program takes into consideration short-term rehabilitation, medium-
term reconstruction and recovery, and long-term, multi-hazard risk management needs o f the
country. The initial program (up to 24 months) will be financed through the reallocation o f US$200
million from the proceeds o f five Credits, as proposed in the Memorandum o f the President. These
include: Post-Literacy and Continuing Education Project (Cr. 3467-BD); Female Secondary School
Assistance Project I1(Cr. 3614-BD); Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (Cr. 2995-
BD); Municipal Services Project (Cr. 3177-BD); and Fourth Fisheries Project (Cr. 3276-BD). The
Credits were selected because they faced imminent cancellations and/or had savings (see Annex 5
for a brief description o fthese credits). About 77 percent o f total reallocation amount will come from
PSIDP. The respective Development Credit Agreements (DCAs) for these Credits will be amended

                                                    4


 to add a component, or components inthe case o f PSIDP, covering activities to be carried out under
 the proposedprogram and to allow Credit proceeds to be used to fundthese activities.

  16.    As part of its overall assistance, the Bank also plans to support medium-term
 reconstruction and long-term hazard risk management. In relation to floods, the Bank is
 currently completing a Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy Paper and plans to finance the
 Water Management Improvement Project (WMIP) this fiscal year. The Strategy Paper took into
 account the National Water Management Plan (NWMP), which was prepared with Bank assistance
 and adopted by GOB in 2004. Moreover, in consultation with stakeholders, the Strategy Paper has
 helped identify priority issues related to water and flood management and potential areas for Bank
 support in the medium term. IDA lending under WMP will total US$101 million after a new
 component (US$20 million) for medium-term reconstruction of flood management infrastructure
 was added in response to the 2004 floods. WMIP i s designed to improve water resources
 management, reduce loss of life and property due to floods, and improve agricultural production. In
 addition to physical investments, WMIP will promote participatory water management through water
 management organizations (WMOs), improve operations and maintenance (O&M) to ensure
 sustainable flood management, and strengthen the two key water sector institutions, the Bangladesh
 Water Development Board(BWDB) and the Water Resources Planning Organization (WARPO).

 17.     Moreover, the Bank i s considering financing a Disaster Management Project (indicative
 lending o f about US$30 million), possibly inearly FY07,buildingupon the current efforts supported
by UNDP and DFID, as well as other development partners. This project could help, inter alia,
integrate hazard risk reduction into development planning; update the risk and vulnerability profile
o f Bangladesh; enhance the reliability o f early warnings and weather forecasts; upgrade the
emergency communication system; improve the enforcement process o f buildingcodes and land use
planning and activities that exacerbate flooding; and explore the use o f financial risk management
measures to mitigate financial and economic impacts of catastrophic risks. At the same time, the
Bank will continue to explore opportunities to help address regional water issues, particularly
sharing o f information on rainfall and river flows.

 18.     As agreed, the Bank's program is complemented by assistance from ADB, which has
provided US$180 million, including U S $ l 3 million grant from the Government of Netherlands,
through an emergency assistance loan covering rural infrastructure, roads, railways, water
management infrastructure, and municipal infrastructure. In the medium term, ADB will likely
finance a second phase o f the Secondary Towns Integrated Flood Protection Project (US$80
million).

19.     Rationalefor Bank Intervention. Inline with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and
CAS Progress Report, as well as Bangladesh's interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP),
the proposed program will finance activities consistent with long-term disaster risk management,
which i s critical to sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction. The initial program will
directly support flood-resistant infrastructure rehabilitation, livelihood revival and vulnerability
reduction.

20.     Lessons Learned. The Bank has accumulated significant experience in supporting post-
disaster recovery. This experience indicates, at the general level, that sustainable recovery not only
requires timely implementation o f rehabilitation and reconstruction activities, but also preparation o f
a program that places these activities properly within the longer-term goal o f reducing overall
disaster vulnerability, and approaches them as development activities. Moreover, as cross-country
experience also shows, achieving this objective requires government commitment and community
and private sector involvement. In the medium-term, in a vulnerable country such as Bangladesh,

                                                              5


  multi-hazard risk mitigation should be mainstreamed through the CAS and sector strategies, and
  through regular operations.

  21.      The successof emergency assistance depends on how fast sustainable results are obtained on
  the ground. Effective implementation o fpost-disaster assistance activities i s therefore critical. Inthis
  respect, the Bank has learnedthe following lessons:

                 Emergency recovery operations should have a simple design, takmg into consideration
                local implementation capacity and the fact that this capacity may be hindered in the
                 aftermath o f a disaster.
                Effective and simple implementation arrangements should be put inplace.
                Whenever possible, experienced and properly staffed implementing agencies should be
                relieduponto ensure smooth progress.
                These agencies should be empowered to take decisions in a timely manner, and to be
                able to access funds with as minimum bureaucratic requirements as possible while
                maintaining acceptable fiduciary controls,
                Complex multi-sectoral operations requiring major central oversight and protracted
                decision-making processes shouldbe avoided.
                Short-term rehabilitation activities should be implemented separately from medium to
                long-term hazard reduction activities and institutional capacity building, since these
                require additional preparation - often with inputs from international experts and
                technical studies - and longer implementation period, and are therefore better addressed
                through regular operations and AAA.
                Close management attention and adequate resources for supervision should be provided.
                Operation and maintenance (O&M) should be maintained at satisfactory levels during
                rehabilitation and reconstruction, and adequate O&M funding should be ensured
                afterwards.

  22.     ProgramObjective.The program objective is to support the speedy recovery of the country
  and o f the affected population, particularly the poor and vulnerable, while emphasizing disaster
  vulnerability reduction over the long-term.

  23.     ProgramDescription. Total program cost is estimated at US$233.09 million, of which the
  Bank will finance US$200 million or about 86 percent. Program components are summarized below
  (see Table A, and Annex 1and Annex 3 for further details). Outcomes and outputs for the Program
  are described inAnnex 2.

  (a)     Livelihood Restoration(US%lO million) consisting o f a micro-credit program to deliver
          about 400,000 loans to disaster-affected households through the Palli Karma Sahayak
          Foundation (PKSF), the apex financing organization o f the microfinance sector, and its
          Partner Organizations (POs). The POs constitute a wide network of over 200 NGOs
          providing microfinance services across Bangladesh. Credit will be providedinconcessionary
          terms, which the recipient can use for post-disaster rehabilitation needs, including
          consumption, related to the 2004 floods, the monga lean season' and other major disasters,
          should they occur. The program will be'appropriately ring-fenced and targeted to avoid any
          deleterious impact on the sustainability o f the microfinance system inBangladesh.



* The mongu
~~




              lean season generally occurs between October and November in the Northwest of the country. This is a period
   preceding the December rice harvest when j o b opportunities are scarce and food stocks are low.

                                                              6


 (b)       Infrastructure Rehabilitation(US$178.09 million) including urban and rural roads and
           bridges, primary and secondary schools - emphasizing dual use as emergency shelters,
           municipal infrastructure, flood proofing o f all rehabilitation (especially water and sanitation
           facilities), and fish farms. In addition to ensuring reconstruction o f vital assets, the program
           will promote the use o fhazard-resistant standards and adequate O&M arrangements.

 (c)       Quick Disbursing Support (US45 million) to help finance critically needed imports to
           ensure successful rehabilitation of affected population, infrastructure reconstruction, and
           economic recovery. The component will cover eligible imports based on a positive list for
           which payments were made after July 1,2004, the date o f the onset of severe f l ~ o d i n g . ~

           TableA -ProgramCost andIDA Financingby Component
    1Component                                  Program                Bank        Source ofE inkFinancinn
    I                                             cost             Financing        PSIDP      Other Credits
    ,                                                                           n Equivalent

   '
   I
   I (a) LivelihoodRestoration                           10.0               10.0         10.0
   j

     (b) InfrastructureRehabilitation                 178.09               145.0         99.0

   j
   j (c) Quick DisbursingSupport                      45.00                 45.0         45.0
   I

     TotalAssistance inUS$ M                         233.09                200.0        154.0           46.0



 C.       ProgramImplementation

 24.      ProgramOrganization and Management. To ensure rapid and effective implementation,
 the initial program will support sectors where the Bank is currently financing regular investments,
 and each concerned line ministryand department will be accountable for its respective infrastructure
 rehabilitation sub-component. Actual implementation will thus be assigned to existing project
 management units (PMUs) or project coordination units (PCUs) under these ministries, with the
 exception o f secondary school rehabilitation that will be implemented by the Education Engineering
Department (EED) in the Ministry o f Education (MOE). EED has been implementing projects
 financed by other donors, including ADB, and will be supported in this case by a qualified
consulting firm and by the existing financial management unit o f the IDA-financed FSSAP 11.
Importantly, a substantial part o f the program will be implemented by the Local Government
Engineering Department (LGED), which i s considered an "island o f excellence" in Bangladesh. As
noted above, the livelihoodrestorationprogram will be implemented by PKSF, with which the Bank
has a long and successful relationship, and PKSF's Partner organization^.^ The quick disbursing
component will be implemented by the Bangladesh Bank on a reimbursementbasis against eligible
imports.     Bangladesh Bank has the required experience to ensure speedy disbursement and
compliance with fiduciary requirements.

25.       Implementation Plan. Implementation plans have been agreed for all relevant sub-
components. These plans include preliminary details o f works and costs, project implementation

  The Bank successfully providedthis type o f support after the 1998 floods.
  IDA has financedthree projectsrelatedto microfinanceinBangladesh, all ofwhich havebeenimplementedby PKSF

                                                    7


 arrangements, as well as financial management arrangements and procurement plans. The
 implementationplans may be reviewed and updatedperiodically, inagreement with the Bank.

 ProcurementArrangements

 26.      All procurement o fgoods, works and consultants shall be undertaken inaccordance with the
 Procurement Guidelines of the World Bank, including: "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
 Credits" and "Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" as stipulated in
 the Development Credit Agreements (DCAs) for the respective projects. In the case of imported
 goods and commodities under the quick disbursing component, procurement would be limited to
 eligible public and private sector imports included in the positive list and from countries that are
 eligible under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

 27.      The major portion of the infrastructure rehabilitation comprises works, including supply of
 furniture, and some consulting services to support implementation. Most works contracts are small in
 value and scattered throughout the country, which would be procured using national competitive
 bidding (NCB) procedures. Due to the emergency nature of the reconstruction program and the
 related need to minimize the time required to engage consultants, consulting services contracts will
 be procured using single-source selection method. Contracts may be awarded to consultants already
 engaged by the implementing agencies for their ongoing works. The terms o f reference and draft
 contracts for consulting services will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Irrespective o f value,
 the first two contracts for works, including fmiture, under EED will be subject to prior review by
 the Bank. Ingeneral, however, contracts below the threshold o f US$200,000 will be subject to post-
review. Furtherdetails on procurement arrangements are provided inAnnex 4.

FinancialManagementArrangements

28.       A financial management assessment was carried out o fthe PMUs that will beresponsible for
the Post-Flood Recovery Assistance Program, under the projects that are currently under
implementation. The capacities o f the PMUs are found adequate for carrying out the additional work
represented by the Program's activities. The PMUs will operate separate special accounts under
PSIDP and other Credits, as detailed below, and maintain separate books and records, prepare
financial statements, periodic Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the Program's components
and have their financial statements audited. Simplified FMRs will be submitted 45 days after each
quarter, showing receipts, uses and balances o f funds by IDA and GOB sources. Uses o f funds will
bereportedby disbursement sub-categories.

DisbursementArrangements

29,      To implement the livelihood restoration component, the Bank funds o f US$10 million will
be utilized by PKSF on a reimbursement basis over a period o f 24 months from the date o f
effectiveness, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Each o f the participating POs will receive funds from PKSF prior to the annual Monga lean season
and/or duringnatural disasters. (See Annex 3 for details).

30.      To ensure separate reporting for the Program's infrastructure rehabilitation component,
while keeping reporting simple, the GOB, under all Credits except MSP (Cr. 3177-BD), will follow
traditional disbursements and claim reimbursements against eligible expenditure. Accordingly, the
standard disbursement percentages (SDPs) will generally apply: civil works, including furniture, 80
percent; consultant services, 100 percent (net o f taxes); goods, 100 percent o f foreign expenditures
for equipment and materials; 100 percent o f local expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment and

                                                      8


 materials; 80 percent o f local expenditures for other items procured locally. Disbursements will be
 made against Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for all contracts below the prior review limits o f the
 individual credits, as revised for the Program, including those contracts for employment o f
 consultant costing less than $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals. See Annex 4 for specific
 disbursement arrangements under each sub-component.

 31.      For quick disbursingsupport, the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) will authorize the Bangladesh
 Bank, which will use import documents of eligible items from both the private and public sectors to
 request reimbursements. The World Bank will finance 100 percent o f the foreign exchange costs o f
 eligible imports as per the positive list detailed inTable 2 of Annex 1. Reimbursement applications
 will be submitted by the Bangladesh Bank against full documents for individual imports costing
 US$3.0 million or above. Below this limit, all reimbursement claims should be based on Statement
 o f Expenditures (SOEs).

 32.      Special Accounts. Implementation arrangements require that several agencies have a
 separate special account under PSIDP, while a few others will draw funds from two different credits
 to implement their respective sub-component under the program. Specifically, five new special
 accounts will be opened under PSIDP for the PMUs implementing rehabilitation o f primary roads,
 secondary roads, municipal infrastructure, primary schools and secondary schools. To ensure quick
utilization of post-flood assistance resources, the allocation inthe special account under FSSAP will
be increased. Moreover, a new Special Account will be opened under PLCE Credit with initial
deposit o f US$1.4 million to utilize US$14millionreallocated for primary school rehabilitation. This
special account will be operated by LGED, which will implement the program. (see Table 3 -
Provisions for Special Accounts, inAnnex 4).

33.      No special accounts will be required for the recovery loan program and the quick disbursing
component. Inthe first case, PKSF will disburse funds to POs from its own resources and then seek
reimbursement from IDA. No special account will be required for BangladeshBank since IDA funds
will be disbursed on a reimbursement basis. Bangladesh Bank will forward the specimen signatures
o f the authorizedpersons to IDA through ERD (MOF).

34.      Audits. The program to be implemented by PKSFwill be audited by a private auditor to be
appointed by PKSF at its cost. A Project Agreement will reflect this arrangement. The audit o f the
quick disbursingsupport component will be carried out by the existingprivate auditor o f Bangladesh
Bank at its own cost. Under the PSIDP credit, the existing audit covenant requires separate private
auditors' reports for two implementing agencies, namely Infrastructure Development Company
Limited (IDCOL) and Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IIFC). As such, the Credit
agreement will be amended to include the requirement of an additional consolidated audit report to
be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year for the post-flood rehabilitation
activities. This consolidated report will include the audit findings of the five different public sector
units implementing the infrastructure rehabilitation components under PSIDP. The Comptroller and
Auditor General would be accepted by IDA as Independent Auditor. All the agencies operating the
Special Accounts related to infrastructure rehabilitation will be required to maintain separate books
for their respective expenditures and prepare quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and
annual financial statements.

35.      Annual audit on the other Credits from which funds have beenreallocatedwill be carried out
under the existing audit covenant o f each credit. The audit report for each o f these credits will cover
all the activities o f the project, with special exposure on post-flood rehabilitation component. Inthe
case o f primary school rehabilitation financed under PLCE, however, the new Special Account
operated by LGED will require a separate financial statement, while the audit report will be a

                                                       9


 consolidated one covering the two implementing agencies under the project. Understandingwith the
 auditors will be reached at the entry meetings prior to commencement o f the respective audits to
 ensure special exposure onthe post-flood rehabilitation component.

 Environmentaland Social Safeguards Policies

 36.      In view o f the emergency nature of the Program (processed under OP 8.50), and the
 proposed areas for Bank financing, a full-fledged Environmental Assessment was not carried out.
 This is in accordance with the provisions o f OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment). Nevertheless, a
 rapid environmental assessment was undertaken as part o f the damage and needs assessment
 exercise.

 37.     The potential environmental impacts of the program are low since it only supports
 rehabilitation and reconstruction o f damaged infrastructure and school facilities, and no new, major
 construction i s anticipated. The Bank i s financing projects in the sectors supported under the
 program - primary and secondary road networks, municipal infrastructure, and primary and
 secondary schools - which have adequate environmental and social assessments. Moreover, the
 program will be implemented through the PMUs implementing these projects, and thus have the
 necessary experience inmeeting the Bank's social and environmental safeguards requirements.

 38.      Reconstruction work under the Program i s not expected to have adverse social impacts.
 Land acquisition and resettlement are not foreseen during this initial stage. The rehabilitation o f
 infrastructure will be conducted on the basis o f the environmental and resettlement framework
 already agreed within the projects; therefore, the same principles, mitigation measures and
 compensation package would apply. These principles would also apply if land acquisition becomes
 unavoidable.

 39.     Ensuringcompliance will also befacilitated bythe fact that the Bankteams that are currently
 supervising the regular projects under each of the sectors supported by the Post-Flood Recovery
Assistance Program would also be supervising the components or sub-components under the
Program.

D.       ProgramBenefits andRisks

40.      Benefits. The Program's benefits would come through the restoration of basic needs,
rehabilitation o f infrastructure, and recovery o f livelihoods. The Program will build on the relief and
recovery measures already initiated by the Government, and will complement assistance providedby
the Asian Development Bank, various agencies of the United Nations, non-governmental
organizations, and the private sector.      The credit line will help families avoid costly informal
borrowings, and will strengthen their coping ability after disasters. The infrastructure rehabilitation
and housing construction program will generate employment, while the rehabilitation o f schools with
emphasis on dual use as adequate emergency shelters will help improve disaster preparedness and
response. The dissemination o f infomation and adoption of flood-resistant construction will reduce
future damage to assets as well as productionlosses.

41.      Risks. Although the program is supporting sectors where experienced PMUs exist and
smooth implementation i s expected, slow disbursement pace o f investment credits, reflecting weak
implementation capacity, i s an ongoing concern in Bangladesh. In this respect, program
implementation arrangements have been kept as simple as possible, maintaining decision-making
and accountability at the level o f the line ministry and implementing agency or department.

                                                    10


Moreover, post-flood rehabilitation activities will be closely monitored, relying heavily on country
office staff.

42.      Governance issues, especially potential opportunities for misappropriation o f resources or
politicization o f recovery assistance, are of concern during the implementation o f emergency
recovery programs. To mitigate this risk, close follow up i s planned, emphasizing due diligence in
procurement and independent audits, coupled with periodic reviews o f Program accounts, statements
o f expenditure, and close monitoring o f the targeting of investments.

43.      Bangladesh was fortunate to escape the brunt o f the recent Asia Tsunami disaster, but it i s a
vulnerable country and another disaster could occur at any time. This would not only derail the
reconstruction program, but would also set back the recovery of the poor and the country at large. It
i s thus critical to ensure that program implementation advances as fast as possible, while making
sure that mitigationmeasures are taken into account and fiduciary responsibilities are met.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        11


                                                                                                                                                                                                   Annex 1
                                                                                                                                                                                  ProgramDescription

                                                                                                Table 1-ProgramCost andIDA Financingby Component

 Activity I Sector                                                                                                                                     Program                                                                                      Source of IDAFinancing
                                                                                                                                                                  Cost                            I Fi:Eing                                       I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PSIDP                                       Other                               Credit Name
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Credits
                                                                                                                                                                                                    3% Million                                      luivalent

 1.LivelihoodRestoration
 RecoveryLoanProgram                                                                                                                                             10.00                                               10.0                                       10.0                                            --

 2. Infrastructure Rehabilitation
 Primary RoadNetwork                                                                                                                                            40.00                                               32.0                                       32.0                                             --
 Secondary RoadNetwork                                                                                                                                          31.25                                               25.0                                       25.0                                             --
 MunicipalInfrastructure                                                                                                                                        30.33                                               26.0                                        11.0                                      15.0                         MunicipalServices
 Fisheries                                                                                                                                                        2.35                                                2.0                                              0                                   2.0                         FourthFisheries
 Primary Schools                                                                                                                                               49.38                                               40.0                                       26.0                                        14.0                         Post-Lit& Cont. Educ
 Secondary Schools                                                                                                                                             24.78                                               20.0                                           5.0                                    15.0                          Female Sec. School
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Assistance I1

 ................................................................................................................................................                                                   ..............................................  ........................................  ........................................  ......................................................................................................
 Sub-Total inUS$m (1+2)                                                                                                                                     188.09                                 ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                155.0                                      109.0                                        46.0


 3. Quick Disbursing Support                                                                                                                                  45.00                                               45.0                                        45.0
 .................................................................................................................................................  .............................................   ..............................................
 Sub-Total inUS%mf31                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            __
                                                                                                                                                    ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                              45.00                                 ..............................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  45.0                              ......................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              45.0                           ........................................

 Total inUS$m(1+2+3)                                                                                                                                       233.09                                              200.0                                       154.0                                        46.0



Overview

As shown in Table 1, rehabilitation of primary and secondary road rehabilitation will be financed
exclusively with PSIDP funds. For financing o f rehabilitation activities related to municipal
infiastructure and primary and secondary schools, funds will come from two sources: an existing
project inthe respective sector and PSIDP. Funds for the recovery loan program will also come from
PSIDP, as i s the case with the provision o f quick disbursing support. Outcomes and outputs for the
Program are summarized inAnnex 2.

Component 1-LivelihoodRestoration(TotalCost: US$lO.O million)

PKSF will administer the micro-credit program through the Disaster Management Fund(DMF), and
its Partner Organizations (POs) will provide the loans to eligible families. Specifically, the program
consists o f a credit line o f US$lO millionto provide about 400,000 loans to poor households affected
by natural disasters and/or by the annual lean Mongu season. Average loans of about Tk 1,500 will
be provided to eligible beneficiaries for rehabilitation needs. Recovered funds will be available for

                                                   12


lending in successive years. This component will be financed with funds from PSIDP. (See further
details inAnnex 3).

Component 2 -InfrastructureRehabilitation(TotalCost:US$178.09 million)

         PrimaryRoadNetwork(US$40 million).
         The existing PMU o f Third Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) will
         implement this sub-component, which includes rehabilitation and reconstruction o f 575 km
         o f roads and 300 meters o f bridges and culverts. Bank financing o f US$32 million for this
         sub-component will come from PSIDP.

         SecondaryRoadNetwork(US$31.25 million)
         The existing P M U of Rural Transport Improvement Project (RTIP) will implement the
         activities under this sub-component, which include rehabilitation o f 1,700 km o f Upazila
         roads, including rehabilitation and reconstruction o f bridges and culverts, and 13 growth
         center markets. Bank financing o f US$25 million for this sub-component will come from
         PSIDP.

         MunicipalInfrastructure(US$30.33 million)
         The existing P M U o f Municipal Services Project (MSP) will implement the activities under
         this sub-component, which has two sources of funds: US$15 millionreallocated under MSP,
         and US$11 million under PSIDP. The sub-component includesrehabilitation o f 1,350 kmof
         urban roads, 1,125 meters o f bridges and culverts, and 42 km o f drainage in 119
        municipalities.

        PrimarySchools (US$49.38 million)
        Implementation o f this component will be carried out by LGED as per arrangements agreed
        between the Ministry o f Primary and Mass Education (MOPME) and LGED.The Bank will
        provide US$40 million to support rehabilitation activities, including repairs to 17,000
        schools and reconstruction o f 918 fully damaged schools to be used as flood shelters in the
        future, as well as provision o f furniture. Bank financing will come from two sources: Post
        Literacy and Continuing Education Project (US$14 million) and PSIDP (US$26 million).

        Secondary Schools (US$24.78 million)
        This sub-component will be implemented by the Education Engineering Department (EED)
        under the Ministry o f Education (MOE). The Bank will provide US$20 million to help
        finance the construction of 181two-storied schools / flood shelters, vertical extension o f 179
        schools providing a first floor, and sinking o f 360 tubewells (of 37 mm o f diameter), as well
        as supply o f furniture to 360 schools. Funds will come from two sources: Female Secondary
        School Assistance I1Project (US$15 million) and PSIDP (US$5 million).

        Fisheries(US$2.35 million)
        The Bank will support rehabilitation o f 31flood-affected fish farms under the Department of
        Fisheries (DOF), Ministry o f Fisheries and Livestock. This sub-component will be
        implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in DOF, using US$2.0 million
       reallocatedunder the FourthFisheriesProject.

                                                13


Component3 -QuickDisbursingSupport (TotalCost:US$45 million)

An amount of US$45 million has been reallocated from PSIDP to provide quick disbursingsupport
to finance eligible imports Erom a positive list of items (see Table 2) which have been urgently
neededby the public and private sector for rehabilitation and reconstruction. The component will be
implementedby the BangladeshBank on a reimbursementbasis.


Table 2 -PositiveList ofItems

Food Grains

EdibleOil

Fertilizer

Seeds

Agriculture equipment and inputs

Cement and other construction materials

Industrial machinery, spareparts and raw materials

Petroleum and Fuel Products


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14


                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Annex 2
                                                                                                                                                                       ProgramOutcomes and Outputs


  ProgramObjective                                                                                                          To support the speedy recovery o f the country and o f the affected population,
~

                                                                                                                           particularly the poor and vulnerable, while emphasizing vulnerability reduction over
                                                                                                                           the long term

  Outcomes                                                                                                                  Sub-component Agency                                                                                                                      LineMinistryI                                                                             Output by Sub-component
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Institution

 ..................................................................................................................................................................................................
 LivelihoodRestoration                                                                                                                                                                                ..........................................................  ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
 Chronic indebtedness                                                                                                IMicro-credit                                                                       POS                                                          PKSF                                                                                     About 400,000 loans provided
 reduced after disasters;                                                                                                  Program                                                                                                                                                                                                                             by POs to poor and vulnerable
 coping mechanisms o f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         households
 beneficiaries strengthened                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
 InfrastructureRehabilitation
    Infrastructure and                                                                                                     Primary Road                                                                  RHD                                                          Communication                                                                            Rehabilitation and
 facilities reconstructed                                                                                                  Network                                                                                                                                                                                                                             reconstruction o f 575 kmo f
 with improved standards;                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      roads and 300 meter o fbridges
 emergency shelter                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and culverts.
 capacity and quality                                                                                                      Secondary Road                                                                LGED                                                        Local Gov., RD                                                                            Rehabilitation o f 1,700 kmo f
 improved                                                                                                                  Network                                                                                                                                   & Cooperatives                                                                            Upazila roads and 13 growth

                                                                                                                          ...........................................................................  ....................................................                                                                                                   ....................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               center markets
                                                                                                                           Municipal                                                                    LGED                                                         Local Gov., RD                                                                            Rehabilitationo f 1,350 kmo f
                                                                                                                           Infrastructure                                                                                                                            & Cooperatives                                                                            urbanroads, 1,125 meters o f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               bridges and culverts, and 42
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               kmofdrainage in 119

                                                                                                                                                                                                       .....................................................         ...........................................................................               municipalities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               .................................................................................................................................
                                                                                                                          Primary Schools                                                               LGED.                                                        Primary and                                                                               Repairs to 17,000 schools and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mass Education                                                                            recinstructioi o f 918 i                                                                                           ~               y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               damaged schools, as well as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               provision o f firniture
                                                                                                                           Secondary                                                                    EED                                                          Education                                                                                 Construction o f 181two-story
                                                                                                                           Schools                                                                                                                                                                                                                             schools / flood shelters,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               vertical extension o f 179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               schools providing a first floor,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               sinking o f 360 tubewells, and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              provision o f furniture to 360
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               schools
                                                                                                                          Fisheries                                                                    DOF                                                          Fisheries and                                                                              Repair and rehabilitationo f 31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Livestock                                                                                  fishfarms
 Quick DisbursingSupport
 Availability o f critical                                                                                         I      Financing o f                                                              I Bangladesh                                                I  Financeand                                                                          I     ~ ~ $ million to support               4 5
 inputsfor rehabilitation                                                                                                 imports                                                                      Bank                                                         Planning                                                                                   financing o f eligible imports
 andreconstruction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             included inpositive list
 ensured                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       disbursed ina timely and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              efficient manner


                                                           15


                                                       Annex 3
                                              LivelihoodRestoration

 1.        Objective. The objective is to provide quick financial assistance to poor families to help
 them cope and recover from disasters based on a financial instrument with concessionary lending
 terms and minimal bureaucratic requirements. Specifically, the component will help prevent poor
 households affected by disasters from selling advance labor, becoming indebted to unscrupulous
 money lenders, and having to sale valuable assets on a distressed basis, and enable them to smooth
 out consumption, which will also help mitigate long-term nutritional consequences o f disasters and
 ensure speedy recovery.

 2.       The above objective will be achieved through the use o f PKSF and its Partner Organizations
 (POs), which have a proven track record of delivering microcredit services on a sustainable basis to
the poor, including under programs financed by the World Bank. An alternative and preferable
 solution to implement this component would have been a cash grant facility outside the micro-credit
 system, but there is no adequate institutional mechanism inthe country to manage such aprogram. In
the special context of Bangladesh, because o f the strength, soundness and experience o f the
 country's micro-credit system, it was decided, in consultation with the POs, that a second best
 alternative would be to establish a small ring-fenced and targeted concessionary credit program.'
PKSF would closely monitor the implementation o f the program and take corrective action if
problems arise or ifthe program i s not achieving its objectives.

3.        OperationalPlan. GOB will utilize the services of PKSF, the country's apex microfinance
agency with which the Bank has a long and successful partnership, as the administrator and financial
intermediary to manage IDA proceeds, monitor lending and recovery performance, and exercise due
diligence in the use and application o f the proceeds. PKSFmanagement will provide regular reports
on the program to its existing Governing Board, composed of representatives from the Government,
private sector and civil society.

4.        The Bank will provide GOB the initial capital for the program to be administered through
the Disaster Management Fund (DMF) of PKSF, which will be operated as a revolving facility.
PKSF will on-lend the funds to its network o f Partner Organizations (POs) in the designated
vulnerable areas, for lending to eligible beneficiaries. PKSF operates its microcredit financing
through over 200 POs who have extensive grass roots contacts with communities. The POs will
assess the needs o f the affected or vulnerable persons, and provide loans for post-disaster
rehabilitation, in accordance with agreed guidelines and terms and conditions.

5.        The initial capital is estimated to be adequate to provide about 400,000 loans, at an average
loan size of Taka 1,500 each. As such, the loan will be o f a small size relative to regular micro-credit
loans, which usually range from Tk 6,000 to 7,000. Annual interest rates are not expected to exceed
4 percent and the typical loan term will be between 12 to 24 months. Further details will be defined
ina Subsidiary LoanAgreement betweenPKSF andPOs, satisfactory to IDA.The programwill only
be activated as a response to disasters, and limited to (i) prone areas; (ii)
                                                                    flood                     perennially distressed
areas; (iii)river-erosion affected areas; (iv) Char lands; and (v) marginal areas, such as the area
affected by Monga annually.




 The design o f the component also takes into consideration lessons from successful experiences, in Bangladesh and other
  countries, of emergency loans provided after disasters. These experiences have shown that, with the appropriate
  safeguards and social mobilization, emergency loans do not have an adverse impact on normal micro-credit programs.

                                                    16


 6.       The POs will be the vehicle to identify, andmake loans to beneficiaries for activities eligible
 for support (see below). These POs will use'their knowledge, experience and good grassroots
 contacts with communities to assess requirements and repayment capacity. POs will also assess the
 needs, verify eligibility criteria, explain the terms and conditions of the loans to beneficiaries,
 conclude the loan documents, and set inmotion the loan recovery procedure. This program will be in
 addition to the POs regular micro-credit operations that are designed for income generation
 activities. Through their social mobilizationactivities, the POs will ensure that the credit culture they
 have strivedto promote i s maintained.

 7.       Flow of Funds. The Bank will make available to GOB US$10 million to be channeled
through the Disaster Management Fund (DMF) operated by PKSF. Accordingly, there will be no
need for a special account for PKSF. PKSF will on-lend the funds to POs charging an interest rate of
 about 0.5 percent. POs will be selected according to their location invulnerable regions on the basis
o f a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA. POs will on-lend the funds to beneficiaries, and
recover the funds, which will be remitted back to PKSF for deployment insubsequent years.

 8.       Eligibility Criteriafor Use of DMF. The program will support post-disaster rehabilitation
needs o f affected households. Eligible activities include, inter alia, repair o f houses, sinking or
replacing tubewells, repair or replacement o f latrines, and other post-disaster needs, including
consumption. The latter i s critical to mitigate long-term nutritional consequences o f disasters,
minimize health risks related to lack o f adequate nutrition, and ensure quick recovery o f vulnerable
householdmembers.

9.        Disbursement of Funds to PKSF. The Bank fund of US$10 million will be disbursed to
PKSF on reimbursement basis over a period o f 24 months. Each PO will receive funds from PKSF
according to the criteria discussed above and specified in the subsidiary loan agreement. Following
the passing of funds to individual POs, and submission of a reimbursement application with
appropriate documents, the Bank will disburse the funds to PKSF.

10.      Responsibilities of Financial Intermediary. The responsibilities o f the PKSF are to: (a)
on-lend the funds to the eligible Partner Organizations (POs), which are part o f its network for
managing microcredit funds, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement; (b) decide on the POs that are
eligible to receive DMF allocations, and the amounts o f funds to be disbursedto the POs each year,
based on their experience and any criteria that PKSF will develop; (c) maintain a separate account
for operations o f the DMF; (d) cause all POs to maintain separate accounts o f receipts, lending and
loan recovery performance; (e) monitor on-lending activities by POs to ensure conformity with
lending criteria; (f) monitor repayment performance andtake necessary action to ensure that POs
maintain a satisfactory recovery performance; (g) submit semi-annual progress reports o f the
operations o f the DMF to GOB and the World Bank; (h) submit to the World Bank annually audited
financial statements, includingthe opinion o f the auditors, no later than six months after end of the
financial year; and (i) the PKSFBoard appraised of developments conceming the DMF.
                       keep

11.      Responsibilities of POs. The POs will recover the loans and remit the recovered funds to
PKSF, based on the terms o f their subsidiary loan agreement. The POs will be responsible for
recording disbursement o f loans given to poor and vulnerable clients and the recoveries, and for
reporting these to PKSF.

12.      As noted, PKSF will prepare a consolidated report, indicating activities o f each PO. Both
PKSF and POs will be answerable to audit queries.

                                                    17


                                                 Annex 4
                           ProcurementandDisbursementArrangements

 A.       GeneralProcurementArrangements

 1.       All procurement o f goods, works and consultants services shall be undertaken inaccordance
 with the Procurement Guidelines of the World Bank, including: "Procurement under IBRD Loans
 and IDA Credits" and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" as
 stipulated inthe respective Development Credit Agreements (DCAs) for the projects.

 2.       Considering the varied size and scattered nature o f works, most o f the civil works contracts
 and contracts for procurement o f goods may be procured following national competitive bidding
 (NCB) procedures. Contracts estimated at less than US$20,000 equivalent, including sinking o f
 tubewells, may be procured by obtaining at least three (3) quotations from qualified contractors.
 Goods estimated to cost less than US$20,000 equivalent may be procured following national
 shopping procedures. Inview o f the urgency for selecting consultants to minimize time, consultants
 may be selected following single-source selectionprocedures.

 3.       Accordingly, works, including furniture, to be financed through the reallocation under the
 five Credits supporting the Post-Flood Recovery Assistance Program may be procured following
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and by obtaining at least three (3) quotations from qualified
 contractors for contracts estimated at less than $20,000 each. The Credits include: Post-Literacy and
 Continuing Education Project (Cr. 3467-BD), Female Secondary School Assistance Project I1(Cr.
 3614-BD); Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project (Cr. 2995-BD); Municipal Services
Project (Cr. 3177-BD); and FourthFisheries Project (Cr. 3276-BD).

4.       Each contract for civil works, including furniture, estimated to cost the equivalent o f
US$200,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Irrespective o f value, the first two
contracts procured by EED will also be subjected to prior review. Each contract for consulting firms
estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more and for contracts for individual consultants,
if any, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. All other contracts will be subject to post review.

5.       Except for PSIDP, the improvement o f NCB procedures has already been incorporated into
the respective DCAs. Inthe case o f MSP, this was done through a side letter. Inthe case o f PSIDP,
the criteria for improvement o f N C B procedures will be incorporatedinto the legal agreement.

6.       In the case of imported goods and commodities under the quick disbursing component,
procurement would be limited to eligible public and private sector imports included in the positive
list and from countries that are eligible under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

B.       GeneralFinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

7.       As indicated inTable 3, five new Special Accounts will be opened under PSIDP to support
implementation of the infrastructure rehabilitation component. Accordingly, funds from PSIDP will
flow to a separate Special Account to be operated by the Project Director (PD) of each o f the PMUs
receiving financing from PSIDP. Inthe case o f PLCE, a new Special Account will be opened, to be
accessed by LGED. The concerned PD will be responsible for the actual disbursements, and for
maintaining accounts and records, claiming replenishments, and financial reporting and external
auditing. Under the Program, traditional disbursement method will be applicable for all activities

                                                    18


funded under PSIDP and other Credits. However, report based disbursement will be used for
activities funded through MSP under Cr. 3177-BD. Since PKSF and BangladeshBank will withdraw
funds from IDA on a reimbursement basis against eligible expenditures, no special accounts are
required for these agencies.

8.       Simplified Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be submitted by each agency that
would disburse funds for the Program, showing receipts, uses and balances o f funds by IDA and
GOB sources. Use of funds will be shown by disbursement sub-categories by all agencies except
Bangladesh Bank, which will show its use o f funds by items o f the positive list. Amendments to
DCAs will reflect such arrangements.


                              Table 3 -Provisions for SpecialAccounts

IiiIDA CreditNo.                        ImplementingAgency              Amount to beReallocated        ,
'                                                                       (US%millionequivalent)        1
                                                                                                      !
   2995-BD (PSIDP)                   PKSF                                     Not required
                                     RHD(PMU, 3rdRRMP)                            3.20
                                     LGED (PMU, RTIP)                             2.50                !I
                                     LGED (PMU, MSP)                               1.10               I

i                                    LGED (PIU, Primary)                          2.60
                                     EEDFSSAP                                     0.50
~




i                                                                                                     ~
i                                    BangladeshBank                           Notrequired
                                                                                                      ~



1                                                                                                     i
1  3614-BD(FSSAP 11)                 EEDFSSAP                          Allocation Increasedby 1.5     j
                                                                                                      ~




i 3467-BD (PLCE)                                                                                      i
                                     LGED(PIU, Primary)                           1.40




C.      DetailedProcurement,FinancialManagement andDisbursementArrangements for
        the InfrastructureRehabilitationComponent

9.      PrimaryRoads(Roads and HighwaysDepartment)
        Procurement. Civil works and Consultant services
        (a) In view o f the scattered nature o f the works, civil works will be grouped into packages
            suitable for national competitive bidding. Bids for civil works will be invited from a list
            o f pre-qualified contractors, who have demonstrated satisfactory performance under the
            ongoing RRMP111.
        (b) In order to minimize the time required for engaging new consultants, single-source
            selection method will be used to select two (2) independent consulting firms already
            working on the ongoing project (RRMP 111). Each contract has an estimated cost o f
            about US$1.25 million.

        Financial Management and Disbursements.The P M U will operate a separate special account
        under PSIDP and maintain the books and records, prepare financial statements, prepare
        periodic FMRs, and have the financial statements audited. Amendments to D C A for PSIDP
        Credit will reflect such arrangements.    '

                                                19



10.    Secondary RoadsandBridges (Local Government EngineeringDepartment)
       Procurement. Civil works and Consultant services
       (a) Inview of the scattered nature of the works, civil works will be grouped into packages
           suitable for national competitive bidding. About 41 NCB contracts packages with about
            195 slices are anticipated and they would be grouped in a manner to be attractive to
           both large and small contractors, following the `slice and package' method.
      (b) In order to minimize the time required for engaging new consultants, single-source
           selection method will be used to select two (2) consulting firms already working on the
           ongoing project (RTIP). Eachcontract has an estimated cost o f about US$500,000.

      Financial Management and Disbursements. The PMUwill operate a separate special account
      under PSIDP and maintain the books and records, prepare financial statements, prepare
      periodic FMRs, and have the financial statements audited. Amendments to DCA for PSIDP
      Creditwill reflect such arrangements. All post-flood assistance activities' records, books and
      accounts would be clearly separated from those o f the ongoing RTIP.

11.   MunicipalInfrastructure(Local Government EngineeringDepartment)
      Procurement. Civil works and Consultant services
      (a)  In view of the scattered nature of the works, civil works will be grouped into packages
           suitable for national competitive bidding. About 400 contracts have been tentatively
           identified. They would be grouped ina manner to be attractive to both large and small
           contractors, following the `slice and package' method. However, some very small
           works contracts equivalent to US$20,000 or less may be procured by obtaining at least
           three (3) quotations from qualified contractors.
      (b) In order to minimize the time required for engaging new consultants, single-source
           selection method will be used to select consultants already engaged under the ongoing
           MSP project. The total value o f consultant services contracts i s estimated to be US$l.O
           million.

    Financial Management and Disbursements. The P M U will (i)      manage the activities under the
    reallocated amount (US$15 million) from the existing MSP special account through FMR-
    based disbursements; and (ii)    operate a separate special account under PSIDP, and will
    maintain the books and records, prepare financial statements and periodic FMRs, and have the
    annual financial statements audited. Amendments to DCA for PSIDP Credit will reflect such
    arrangements. Existing financial covenants under MSP Credit would ensure accounting,
    reporting through PMRs and auditing o f all activities under the Credit, including the post-
    flood rehabilitation component.

12.   PrimaryEducation(Local GovernmentEngineeringDepartment).
      Procurement. Civil works, FurnitureProcurement and Consulting Services
      (a) All contracts for civil works as well as supply of furniture under this component will be
          relatively small invalue and scattered throughout the country. 17,918 contracts for civil
          works as well as furniture supply under this sub-component will be awarded following
          NCB method. However, some very small contracts for works and furniture equivalent
          to US$20,000 or less for each contract may be procured by obtaining at least three (3)
          quotations from qualified contractors.
      (b) Since LGED will implement the procurement activities on behalf o f the Directorate of
          Primary Education (DPE) with its own staff, it will charge about US$0.99 million as
          professional fees. MOPME and LGED will sign an MOU with terms and conditions
          satisfactory to the Bank.

                                                  20



    Financial Management and Disbursements. LGED will implement the activities through two
    separate Special Accounts (one under PLCE and a new one under PSIDP), one for each Credit
    and will maintain separate books and records, prepare separate financial statements and
    periodic FMRs, and have the financial statements audited for funds to be used from each
    Credit. Amendments to DCAs for both Credits will reflect such arrangements. Existing
    financial covenants under PLCE Credit will ensure auditing for all activities under the Credit,
    includingpost-flood rehabilitation component.

13.   SecondaryEducation(EducationEngineeringDepartment,MOE)
      Procurement. Civil works, FurnitureProcurement, and Consulting Services
      (a) All the civil works as well as supply o f furniture under this component will be relatively
           small in value and scattered throughout the country. The 360 contracts for civil works
           as well as furniture supply under this sub-component will be awarded following NCB
           method. However, some very small contracts for works and furniture equivalent to
           US$20,000 or less for each contract may be procured by obtaining at least three (3)
           quotations from qualified contractors.
      (b) Inorder to minimize the time required for engaging new consultants, a consulting firm
           will be selected using single-source method from the firms already working with the
           Education Engineering Department (EED) to assist with design, preparation o f bidding
           documents, bid evaluation, construction supervision and contract management. The
           total value o f the consultant contract is estimated at US$l-19million.

      Financial Management and Disbursements. EED will submit their approved bills to FSSAP,
      which will operate the two Special Accounts, and be responsible for carrying out the
      payments, maintain separate books and records, prepare separate financial statements and
      periodic FMRs, and have the financial statements audited for funds to be used from each
      Credit. Amendments to DCAs for PSIDP Credit will reflect such arrangements. Financial
      covenants under FSSAP Credit will ensure accounting, reporting through PMRs and auditing
      for all activities under the Credit, includingthe post-flood rehabilitation component.

14.  Fisheries (Departmentof Fisheries, DOF)
     Procurement. Civil works and Consulting Services
     (a) All the civil works for rehabilitation o f 31 fish farms will be done through national
           competitive bidding and by obtaining at least three (3) quotations from qualified
           contractors for contracts estimatedat less than US$20,000 equivalent.
     (b) In order to minimize the time required for engaging new consultants, the consulting
           firmalready working inthe project will be selected usingsingle-source methodto assist
          the Department o f Fisheries in design, construction supervision and management, at an
          estimatedcost o f US$O.lO million.

     Financial Management and Disbursements. DOF will use the existing Special Account
     operated by the Project Coordinating Director o f the PCU, and will maintain accounts and
     records, prepare and submit withdrawal applications, financial statements and periodical
     Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs), and have the financial statements audited for funds
     usedthrough the reallocation. Financial covenants under Fourth Fisheries Credit will ensure
     accounting, reporting through PMRs, and auditing for all activities under the Credit,
     includingthe post-flood rehabilitation component.

                                                   21


D.       Detailed Procurement, Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements for
         the QuickDisbursingComponent

 15.     Procurement would be limited to eligible public and private sector imports included in the
positive list and from countries that are eligible under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. No more
than 50 percent o f the Credit would be used inthe aggregate for the import o f any single item on the
positive list. To ensure that transactioncosts are manageable, public sector import contracts valued at
less than US$50,000 and private sector import contracts at less than US$20,000 would be ineligible
for financing under the program.

16.      Commodities, such a food grains, fertilizer, and fuel, may be procured under the Program by
both the public andprivate sector through established international commodity markets, or simplified
procedures consistent with the Bank's procurement guidelines.

17.     Goods other than commodities procured by both the public and private sector would follow
simplifiedinternational competitive bidding. For contracts bypublic sector agencies valued less than
US$3.0 million, international shopping procedures would be acceptable. In the case o f the private
sector, contracts below US$5.O million may be procured through established commercial practices.

18.     Prior review by the Bank will be applicable for imports costing at or above US$3.O million
and US$5.0 millionfor public and private sector respectively.

19.     Financial Management and Disbursements.            The Bangladesh Bank will submit fully
documented reimbursement requests for individual import costing US$3.O million or more. Below
the threshold, reimbursement claims shall be, submitted on Statement o f Expenditures (SOE).
Bangladesh Bank will maintain the books and records, prepare financial statements, periodic FMRs,
and have the financial statements audited by its private auditor. Amendments to D C A for PSIDP
Credit will reflect such arrangements.


                                                    22


                                                 Annex 5
                                    Description of Ongoing Projects


 Female Secondary School Assistance Project II(FSSAP)

                                                                            BoardApproval: 03/12/2002
                                                                                          Age: 2.8 years
                                                                Reallocatedto the Program: US$lS.O m
                                                   Fundsleft for Regular Project Activities: US$81.7 m

 Project Development Objective:
 Improve the quality of, and girls' access to, secondary education in rural areas o f Bangladesh,
 through sustaining improved gender equity, adding activities and incentives to improve quality o f
 education in participating schools, and improving both the management capacity of the Ministry o f
 Education (MOE) and monitoring and accountability mechanisms at the community level.

 Impact of Reallocation:
 The reallocation of US$lS.O million equivalent is from savings due to SDR appreciation.            The
 reallocation will not have any impact on the project objectives or activities, which remain the same
 as originally planned.



Municipal Services Project (MSP)

                                                                            Board Approval: 03/16/1999
                                                                                          Age: 5.8 years
                                                                Reallocatedto the Program: US$lS.O m
                                                   Fundsleft for Regular Project Activities: US$69.6 m

Project Development Objective:
To improve urban environment, infrastructure and services, and, to that end, to: (a) strengthen the
institutional capacity o f selected municipalities and city corporations; (b) improve resource
allocation and fiscal discipline; and (c) support governmental efforts to reduce urbanpoverty and
improve the environmental conditions o furban communities.

Impact of Reallocation:
Project development objectives have not been significantly affected by the reallocation. The Bank
helped finance municipal infrastructure rehabilitation through MSP after the 1998 and 2000 floods.
The reallocation o f US$lS.O million equivalent will support works that fall within the scope o f the
project's development objectives. Decision on the reallocation amount took into account the
estimated requirements for urban infiastructure sub-projects in municipalities to be funded by the
Bangladesh Municipal Development Fund(BMDF) created under the project, and for the completion
of ongoing works in the three Chittagong Hill Tracts towns executed by LGED. Project
implementation was affected, inter alia, by delays in getting BMDF off the ground, but good
progress has beenmade recently. Specific actions have been agreed to upgrade current unsatisfactory
project ratings.

                                                             23


 Post-Literacyand ContinuingEducation(PLCE)

                                                                                        BoardApproval: 02/27/2001
                                                                                                        Age: 3.8 years
                                                                             Reallocatedto the Program: US$14.0m
                                                           FundsLeft for Regular Project Activities: US$29.7 m
 ProjectDevelopmentObjective:
 Support the neo-literate inmaintaining literacy skills and providing s h l l s training to strengthentheir
 capacities to earn income and improve their standard of living.

 ImpactofReallocation:
 The reallocation o f US$14.0 million equivalent will have no negative impact on achieving project
 development objectives, although its scope and impact will be less than initially envisaged. The
 reallocation will support rehabilitation o f primary school facilities which will allow GOB to continue
 pursuingits goal o f increasing education access and improvingeducation quality. Specific phases of
 post-literacy and continuing education courses have been planned until project closure in line with
 funds available following the reallocation.


 PrivateSector InfrastructureDevelopmentProject(PSIDP)

                                                                                        BoardApproval: 10/28/1997
                                                                                                        Age: 7.2 years
                                                                           Reallocated to the Program: US$154.0 m
                                                             Fundsleft for Regular ProjectActivities: US$2.9 m

ProjectDevelopmentObjective:
To assist in the development o f a modem and efficient infrastructure system in Bangladesh by
promoting private sector participation, inter alia, in the investment, operation, ownership and
maintenance o f infrastructure facilities.

ImpactofReallocation:
Progress on the main project component (financing for private participation) has been unsatisfactory
for several months before the floods due to the continued lack o f viable subprojectsn6The
expectation that a large and fairly advanced infrastructure power investment would come on board
during 2004 did not materialize. Under these circumstances, a reallocation o f most o f the
undisbursed credit funds (US$154.0 million or almost 97 percent of total) was agreed with the
Government. The original project development objective and project scope have thus changed due to
the reallocation. The Credit will now be instrumental to meet the objective o f the Post-Flood
Recovery Assistant Program, by supporting the rehabilitation of roads, schools and municipal
infrastructure. No funds have been left for financing o f private sector initiatives, but the Bank will
continue to support the Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center (IIFC) createdunder the project.
This would include IIFC's assistance to the new Private Infrastructure Committee (PICOM) in
making operational the recent Private Sector Infrastructure Guidelines (PSIG).




  The Infrastructure Development Company Limited (IDCOL), created under the project, extended one loan o f US$80
  million from the PSIDP fund in 2001 to the AES Meghnaghat power station. Main reasons for the lack o f sub-projects
  include the unexpected downtum in the international market for private infrastructure, slower than expected progress on
  legal and regulatory reform, and deficiencies inthe design o f the project.

                                                   24


Fourth Fisheries Proiect

                                                                          Board Approval: 07/20/1999
                                                                                         Age: 5.5 years
                                                                Reallocated to the Program: US$2.0 m
                                                   Funds left for Regular Project Activities: USS8.7 m
Project Development Objective:
To support sustainable growthinand equitable distribution of the benefits generated from increased
fish and shrimpproduction for domestic consumption andexports.

Impact of Reallocation:
Scope, aim and priorities o f the project have evolved through a series o f reviews to address problems
duringproject implementation, which has improved inthe past months. To respondto the post-flood
needs, credit savings of about US$2.0 million have been reallocated to carry out rehabilitation o f
flood-damaged fish farms. The reallocation i s expected to enhance project impact since the
rehabilitated fish farms will be used mainly to produce improved broodstock and training o f private
sector fish farm operators on improved fish seeds. Previous to the floods, the Bank had agreed to a
selective extension o f the Credit up to June 30, 2006, and the remaining amount will be used to
continue carrying out project activities.


                                       25


                               Flood ResponseTeam

Team Leaders       Mohinder Mudahar        Economic Adviser, SASAR
                   Enrique Pantoja         Sr Country Officer, SACBA
Country Unit       Farhana T. Sonia        Operations Analyst, SACBD
                   Kamla Pariadhaven       Sr Country ProgramAssistant, SACBA
Agriculture / RD   Paul Dorosh             Sr Rural Development Economist, SASAR
                   S.A.M.Rafiquzzaman      IrrigationEngineer, SASAR
                   S. P. KhanTandra        Program Assistant, SACBD
F.Management       Burhanuddin Ahmed       Sr Financial Management Specialist, SASFM
                   MohammadSayeed          Disbursement Officer, SASFM
Procurement       AminulHaque              Sr Procurement Specialist, SASPS
HumanDev.          Qaiser Khan             LeadHuman Development Spec., SASHD
                  Raphael A. Cortez        Sr Economist, SASHD
Infrastructure &  Zahed H.Khan             Sr Urb. Specialist, SASEI
Energy            M.Iqbal                  Sr Energy Specialist, SASEI
                  Fabio Galli              Sr Financial Analyst, SASEI
                  Mitsuyoshi Asada         Sr Transport Specialist, SASEI
                  Mohi U.Z. Quazi          Sr Transport Engineer, SASEI
                  Sultana Reefat           Project Analyst, SASEI
                  Raihan Elahi             Financial Analyst, SASEI
Disaster          Christoph Pusch          Sr Urban Specialist, SASEI
Management        Jelena Pantelic          Sr Operations Officer, SECPS
                  Zoe Elena Trohanis       Knowledge Management Analyst, TUDHM
Water             KarinKemper              Sr Water Resources Specialist, SASES
                  Khawaja Minnatullah      Sr Water & Sanitation Specialist, EWDSA
                  A.D.C.Godavitame         Consultant
SocialDevelopment Nilufar Ahmad            Sr Social Scientist, SASES
PSD &             G.M.KhurshidAlam         Sr Private Sector Dev. Specialist, SASFP
Microfinance      Marc Dutz                Sr Private Sector Dev. Specialist SASFP
                  Shamsuddin Ahmad         Sr Financial Sector Specialist, SASFP
                  Hassan Zaman             Sr Economist, SASPR
Macroeconomy      Zahid Hussain           Sr Economist, SASPR
                  Joyce Mormita Das       Program Assistant, SACBD
ExternalRelations Subrata Dhar            Sr Communications Officer, SAREX
Legal             Kishor Uprety           Sr Counsel, LEGMS

                                      Bangladesh
                       Post-Flood RecoveryAssistanceProgram


Acronyms andAbbreviations

AAA            Analytical and Advisory Activities
ADB            Asian Development Bank
AUSAID         Australian Aid
BCPR           Bureauo f Crisis Prevention and Recovery
BRAC           BangladeshRural Advancement Committee (NGO)
BWDB           BangladeshWater Development Board
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA           CanadianInternational Development Agency
DER            Disaster Emergency Response (an LCG sub-group)
DFID           Department for International Development (U.K.)
DMF            Disaster Management Fund(PKSF)
DOF            Department o f Fisheries
DPE            Directorate o fPrimary Education
EED            Education Engineering Department
ERD            Economic Relations Division, Ministry of Finance and Planning
EU             EuropeanUnion
FMR            Financial MonitoringReport
FSSAP-I1       Female Secondary School Assistance Project I1
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GOB            Government o f Bangladesh
IDA            International Development Association
IDCOL          Infrastructure Development Company Limited
IIFC           Infrastructure Investment Facilitation Center
I-PRSP         InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
JICA           Japan International CooperationAgency
LCG            Local Consultative Group
LGED           Local Government Engineering Department
MFA            Multi-Fiber Arrangement
MOE            MinistryofEducation
MOF            MinistryofFinance
MOPME          MinistryofPrimary andMass Education
MSP            Municipal Services Project
N C B          National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NWMP           NationalWater Management Plan
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
OCHA           Office for the Coordination o f Humanitarian Affairs
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PD             Project Director
PICOM          Private Infrastructure Committee
PIU            Project ImplementationUnit
PKSF           Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation
PLCE           Post Literacy and Continuing Education
PMR            Project Monitoring Report
PMU            Project Management Unit

                                            11



Acronyms and Abbreviations(Cont'd)

PO              Partner Organization o f PKSF
PSIDP           Private Sector Infrastructure Development Project
PSIG            Private Sector Infrastructure Guidelines
RHD             Roads and Highways Department
RRMP-I11        ThirdRoadRehabilitation andMaintenance Project
RTP             Rural Transport Improvement Project
SDP             Standard DisbursementPercentage
SIDA            SwedishIntemational DevelopmentAuthority
SOE             Statement o f Expenditure
UNDAC           UNDisaster Assessment andCoordination
UNDMT           UNDisasterManagementTeam
UNDP            UNDevelopmentProgram
USAID           United States Agency for Intemational Development
VGF             Vulnerable Group Feeding
WARP0           Water Resources Planning Organization
WMIP            Water Management Improvement Project
WMO             Water Management Organization

