                   Document of

                 The World Bank




                                           Report No: ICR0000925




IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IDA-36140-BD)




                      ON A

                     CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 96.4 MILLION
        (US$ 120.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                     TO THE

      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                     FOR A

FEMALE SECONDARY SCHOOL ASSISTANCE PROJECT II




                December 26, 2008

          Human Development Sector Unit
                 South Asia Region

                                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                                       (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2008)


                                                Currency Unit = Taka
                                               1.00 Taka = US$0.0144
                                                 US$ 1.00 = Tk 70


                                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                                   July 1- June 30


                                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AD         Assistant Director                             M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
ADB        Asian Development Bank                         MIS        Management Information System
ADP        Annual Development Programme                   MoE        Ministry of Education
BANBEIS    Bangladesh Bureau of Education Information     MoF        Ministry of Finance
           and Statistics
BBS        Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics                MPO        Monthly Pay Order
B. Ed      Bachelor of Education                          MTR        Mid-Term Review
BISE       Board of Intermediate and Secondary            MTRT       Mobile Training Resource Team
           Education
DD         Deputy Director                                NCTB       National Curriculum and Textbook Board
DEO        District Education Officer                     NTRCA      Non-government Teachers Recruitment
                                                                     and Certification Authority
DfID       Department for International Development       PAD        Project Appraisal Document
DG         Director General                               PCT        Procurement Core Team
DPHE       Department of Public Health and Engineering    PIP        Project Implementation Plan
DPP        Development Project Proposal                   PMU        Program Monitoring Unit
DSHE       Directorate of Secondary and Higher            POU        Project Operations Unit
           Education
ESDSC      Education Sector Development Support Credit    PPST       Pro-poor Self Targeting pilot
FMS        Financial Management System                    PPT        Project Preparation Team
FSSAP      Female Secondary School Assistance Project     PTA        Parent-Teacher Association
FY         Fiscal Year                                    SEQAEP     Secondary Education Quality and Access
                                                                     Enhancement Project
GDP        Gross Domestic Product                         SMC        School Management Committee
GoB        Government of Bangladesh                       SSC        Secondary School Certificate
HIES       Household Income Expenditure Survey            TDP        Tribal Development Plan
HSC        Higher Secondary Certificate                   UPO        Upazila Project Office
IDA        International Development Association          USEO       Upazila Secondary Education Officer



Vice President:         Isabel Guerrero
Country Director:       Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:         Amit Dar
Project Team Leader:    Irajen Appasamy
ICR Team Leader:        Sofia Shakil




                                                       - ii -

                                                              Bangladesh
                                Female Secondary School Assistance Project II




                                                             CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..........................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes..........................................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome....................................................................................14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................................14
6. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................................................16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......................................17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................................................18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..............................................................................................................19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................................................25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.........................................27
Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results..............................................................................29
Annex 6. Borrower's Assessment ............................................................................................................30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents..................................................................................................40

MAP IBRD 36681




                                                                   - iii -

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Female Secondary
Country:                Bangladesh              Project Name:         School Assistance
                                                                      Project-II
Project ID:             P044876                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-36140
ICR Date:               12/29/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:             GOB
Original Total
                        XDR 96.4M               Disbursed Amount:     XDR 70.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education (MOE)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/12/2001    Effectiveness:          05/01/2002        05/01/2002
Appraisal:             06/25/2001    Restructuring(s):                         03/30/2005
Approval:              03/12/2002    Mid-term Review:        07/01/2004        10/21/2004
                                     Closing:                12/31/2006        06/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     Moderately


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                        (QEA):              Unsatisfactory
Problem Project at any                       Quality of
                          No                                     Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                               Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             9                  9
Other social services                                       22                  22
Secondary education                                         59                  59
Tertiary education                                          10                  10


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                          Primary            Primary
Gender                                                     Primary            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                          Primary          Secondary
Social safety nets                                         Primary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Xian Zhu                       Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:           Amit Dar                       Charles C. Griffin
                                                         Ana Maria Parchuc de Jeria
Project Team Leader:      Irajen Appasamy
                                                         Figueroa
ICR Team Leader:          Sofia Shakil
ICR Primary Author:       Sofia Shakil



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Improve the quality of, and girls access to, secondary education in rural areas of
Bangladesh, through sustaining improved gender equity, adding activities and incentives
to improve the quality of education in participating schools, and improving both the
management capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and monitoring and
accountability mechanisms at the community level.




                                            ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Develoment Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Quality - Increase in % of girls and boys taking and passing the SSC exam
Value
quantitative or 38%                         43%                               63%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The percentage of girls and boys passing the SSC has steadily increased,

achievement)    however the number of girls and boys taking the SSC has declined slightly.

Indicator 2 :   Quality - Awards for best performing girls in Class VIII and IX
Value
quantitative or 0                           55,960 (MTR rev.)                 62,360
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target established at MTR exceeded.
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Quality - Awards for girls who made the most improvement in learning
                achievement
Value
quantitative or 0                           55,960 (MTR rev.)                 60,711
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Target established at MTR exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Access - Increase in girls' enrollment
Value
quantitative or 1,000,000                   1,200,000                         1,176,614
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments        There was a trend in 2004-06 of decline in secondary girls' enrollment across the
(incl. %        country, but the project managed to reverse this trend in the project upazillas,
achievement)    and maintained an increase.
Indicator 5 :   Girls' enrollment as a percentage of total enrollment in project upazilas
Value
quantitative or 56%                         57%                               57%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments        Gender parity ratio not only maintained, but improved.



                                                 iii

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :   Access - No. of girls receiving stipends
Value
quantitative or 931,102                     950,000-1,000,000                 723,980
Qualitative)                                (MTR rev.)

Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Because of more stringent monitoring against eligibility criteria, the number of

achievement)    girls' receiving stipends has declined.

Indicator 7 :   Access - Disadvantaged girls supported by the Family Attractiveness Program
                (FAP)
Value
quantitative or -                           800 girls (MTR                    760
Qualitative)                                rev.)

Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        95% achievement of target set at MTR.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                 approval         Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Quality - No. of subject teachers trained
Value
(quantitative   -                           25,000 (MTR rev.)                 23,484
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        94% achievement - shortfall due to non availability of subject teachers.
achievement)
                Management, Monitoring and Accountability - periodic studies carried out on
Indicator 2 :   female education issues to inform planning of future investments in female
                education
                                            Periodic studies
Value                                       carried out,
(quantitative   -                           including Impact                  Several studies

or Qualitative)                             Evaluation Study                  carried out.

                                            carried out
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    06/30/2008                        06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        Two performance audits completed, and a study on comparison between MTRT

achievement)    visited institutions and other FSSAP II institutions completed, among others.

Indicator 3 :   Management, Monitoring and Accountability - Establishment of integrated MIS
                database on all female stipends programs



                                                 iv

                                                                           Integrated MIS

Value                                     Integrated MIS                   database

(quantitative  -                          database                         established, not

or Qualitative)                           established                      fully operational
                                                                           due to technical
                                                                           reasons.
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  06/30/2008                       06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       Databases from the other stipend projects could not be converted into Oracle.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Management, Monitoring and Accountability - Establishment of integrated MIS
               database on all female stipends programs
Value                                     Integrated MIS
(quantitative  -                          database
or Qualitative)                           established
Date achieved 12/31/2001                  06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                        IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     07/19/2002          Satisfactory            Highly Satisfactory                21.34
  2     12/23/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    27.22
  3     06/09/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    33.06
  4     11/17/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    34.02
  5     05/16/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    39.97
  6     11/16/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    45.11
  7     05/13/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  51.88
  8     11/02/2005    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  58.16
  9     04/26/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  63.01
  10    07/10/2006          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    67.84
  11    01/24/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  80.57
  12    07/26/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  85.61
  13    01/29/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    92.75
  14    06/27/2008          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   101.14



H. Restructuring (if any)

 Restructuring     Board        ISR Ratings at     Amount        Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)      Approved      Restructuring Disbursed at            Key Changes Made




                                               v

                              DO       IP
   03/30/2005           Y       S       S          49.66



If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                           Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                          Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                     Satisfactory



I. Disbursement Profile




                                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 1991, Bangladesh had a population of about 111 million, with only about one third of the adult population, and
just about one fourth of the female population, being literate. Girls' enrollment in secondary education was only
33%. Poverty, early marriage and other inter-related social and cultural factors were the main impediments for
the girls to continue their education. Against this backdrop, the Government of Bangladesh (GoB) embarked on a
female school assistance program in 1994 to expand access to girls in secondary education in rural areas. Based
on the program's success, GoB decided to continue the stipend program for a second phase, the Female
Secondary School Assistance Project II (FSSAPII) in 2002 using the same geographical targeting approach under
FSSAP. In addition, FSSAPII made provision for introducing targeting through a pilot but only gradually in light
of prevailing political economy constraints. At FSSAPII appraisal in 2001, Bangladesh had a population of about
130 million, of which about 36 percent was below the poverty line, and only 40 percent of the adult population
was literate. The Gross National Income per capita was about US$370.

The overarching objective of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2001 was to help Bangladesh realize its
aspiration of reducing poverty substantially within one generation. The CAS supported Government plans and
policies reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002), which envisaged poverty alleviation as its overriding
objective. One of the key strategies to attain this objective was to consolidate gains in human development and to
support initiatives to address the next generation of development challenges in education, health and nutrition.

In the education sector, the major issues were: (a) low education quality and low internal efficiency; (b) weak
relevance of the curriculum; (c) low learning achievements; (d) inadequate facilities; (e) inadequate teacher
training and academic supervision; (f) geographic and gender inequities; and (g) weak management, lack of
accountability and distorted incentives.

In line with both CAS and sectoral goals, FSSAPII was designed to address the issues relating to: (a) improving
secondary education quality through: (i) teacher education, training and support; (ii) student and school
performance incentives; and (iii) greater community involvement in school quality issues; (b) expanding and
sustaining access for girls in rural areas through (i) continuing the FSSAP girls' stipend and tuition assistance
programs; and (ii) additional outreach in rural areas; and (c) improving management, monitoring and
accountability, with focus at the school level. It is to be noted that in parallel MoE (with support from
development partners such as the Asian Development Bank and IDA) embarked on secondary education reforms
in key areas such as teacher development, curriculum and textbook development, examinations systems, school
management and supervision, incentives for improving education quality, and institutional capacity-building.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective was to improve the quality of, and girls' access to, secondary education in
rural areas of Bangladesh, through sustaining improved gender equity, adding activities and incentives to improve
the quality of education in participating schools, and improving both the management capacity of the Ministry of
Education (MoE) and monitoring and accountability mechanisms at the community level.

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), progress towards achievement of the project development
objectives was to be measured by:

·   Percentage of girls and boys taking and passing the SSC examinations;
·   No. of awards for best performing girls in Class VIII and IX;
·   No. of awards for girls who made the most improvement in learning achievement;
·   Girls' enrollment;


                                                           - 1 -

·   Girls' enrollment as a percentage of total enrollment in project upazilas;
·   No. of girls receiving stipends;
·   No. of disadvantaged girls supported by the Family Attractiveness Program (FAP);
·   No. of subject teachers trained;
·   No. of periodic studies carried out on female education issues to inform planning of future investments in
    female education; and
·   Establishment of integrated MIS database on all female stipends programs.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objective was not revised. The following key indicators were revised at the Mid-Term
Review (MTR) to reflect more realistic figures than appraisal estimates: (a) targets for awards for best
performing girls in Class III and IX, and for most improved students were revised realistically from 64,800 to
55,960; (b) the enrollment figure of 1.45 million girls was revised to 1.2 million, given the overly optimistic
appraisal estimate; (c) similarly, the number of girls receiving stipends was revised from 1.2 million to 0.95-1
million; (d) estimated girl-years under the Family Attractiveness program was converted to 800 girls; (e) the
target for the number of teachers undergoing subject training was revised from 26,800 to 25,000 because of
teacher vacancies and ineligibility.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project were: (i) students, teachers, head teachers in secondary education, with
particular emphasis on secondary school girls in 121 upazilas1; (ii) parents and communities; (iii) Ministry of
Education (MoE) officials at central and upazila levels; and (iii) education professionals in teacher training
institutions. The financial, educational and social benefits of providing stipends to girls and tuition to institutions
encouraged parents to retain girls in school, and sit in SSC examinations, and institutions to attract more girls.
This has enabled more girls to attend secondary institutions. Further, the outreach programs benefited poor and
disadvantaged girls and boys by making it possible for these students to attend junior secondary schools in areas
where no such schools existed before. Performance incentives contributed to improve student and school
performance, as evident from increased pass rates in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations.
Capacity-building has strengthened the services and accountability of institutional beneficiaries, including:
Upazila Secondary Education Officers (USEO) in 121 upazilas; 6,666 FSSAPII educational institutions; and
Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) as well MoE officials.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of three components, with a total cost of US$144.6 million: (1) Improving the Quality of
Secondary Education ($12.67 million); (2) Increasing Access and Retention of Girls ($118.72 million); and (3)
Strengthening Management, Accountability and Monitoring ($12.23 million).

    (a) Improving the Quality of Secondary Education (US$12.67 million)

The expected outcomes were: (a) improving student learning; (b) attracting more girls to schools; and (c)
increasing junior secondary school completion and SSC pass rates. These were to be achieved by:

    ·    increasing SSC examinations (grade 10) pass rates for girls;
    ·    training 26,800 teachers and 3,350 head teachers;
    ·    providing: (i) 860 excellence awards to institutions; (ii) 64,800 best performance awards and 64,800
         improved performance awards to students; and (iii) 240 fellowships to girls to become teachers;


1FSSAPII covered 119 upazilas, which became 121 upazilas due to split of two upazilas.


                                                               - 2 -

    ·   orienting about 21,000 stakeholders on education quality; and
    ·   installing about 2,000 tube-wells; constructing 2,000 latrines, and testing existing and new tube-wells for
        arsenic contamination.

    (b) Increasing Access and Retention of Girls (US$118.72 million)

The intended outcomes of increased secondary school access and retention of girls were to be achieved by
providing stipends to girls and tuition the educational institutions they enroll in, and piloting of outreach activities
(New School Program, Family Attractiveness Program, and Pro-Poor Self-Targeting). Key project activities
included:

    ·   increasing girls' enrollment in project educational institutions (Gross Enrollment Ratio to 57 percent);
    ·   implementing simplified procedures for stipends and tuition authorization and disbursement;
    ·   providing about 6.3 million girl-years of stipends (about 1,450,000 girls);
    ·   establishing 60 new outreach schools;
    ·   supporting 2,400 disadvantaged students with stipends at a higher rate; and
    ·   piloting a pro-poor self-targeting scheme

    (c) Strengthening Management, Accountability and Monitoring (US$13.23 million)

The expected outcomes of: (i) improved capacity to plan, manage and monitor quality female education
programs; (ii) reduced irregularities and wastage; and (iii) decreased fragmentation of foreign assistance, were to
be achieved by:

     ·  establishing, operationalizing and maintaining a Program Monitoring Unit (PMU) within the DSHE and
        Project Operations Unit (POU);
    ·   providing international training (80 person-months) and in-country training (88 person-months) in areas
        such as educational development, school management, targeting, management, finance, and information
        technology;
    ·   strengthening project management and field capacity to deliver services and strengthening school level
        accountability;
    ·   establishing an integrated MIS database, including all female education stipends programs;
    ·   increasing DSHE's capacity to monitor all its female education stipend programs; and
    ·   conducting studies, including: (i) periodic comparative analyses; (ii) third-party auditing; (iii)
        monitoring; and (iv) impact evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components

The original components were not formally revised. However, funds earmarked for cancellation at MTR was
provided to rehabilitate flood-damaged schools under a Post-Flood Recovery Assistance Program (see Section 1.7
below), under part Z of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement. It is to be noted that a separate ICR
will cover school rehabilitation under Part Z of the Project (similarly treated by GOB under a separate
Development Project Proposal). Since FSSAPII was only providing funding from the Credit, supervision and
implementation support was provided under the Post-Flood Recovery Assistance Program.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

Given the nature of component activities (many of them through piloting), by mid-term the project faced vast
challenges, two of the most critical ones being the need to seek GoB approval for much required changes, which
took more than eight months to materialize, and to re-build the project management team in view of sudden
departures of key experienced staff, which equally took a long time. Other significant changes are described
below.


                                                         - 3 -

Project Extension. The project was extended twice. The original project closing date of December 31, 2006 was
extended first to December 31, 2007 in order to enable GoB to complete the piloting of innovative activities such
as pro-poor self-targeting (PPST) scheme, Mobile Training Resource Team (MTRT) pilot, and the SSC incentives
scheme (introduced during the MTR). The second extension of the closing date to June 30, 2008 was granted
following GoB's request for IDA support to allow continuity in its stipend programs in project upazilas until the
formulation of a new operation.

Amendments. The following amendments were made to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA): (a) a
country portfolio restructuring through a legal amendment in March 2005 led to the re-allocation from the Credit
of SDR9.68 million equivalent (earmarked for cancellation at MTR) for the support of the Post-Flood Recovery
Assistance Program (Board Document No. IDA/R2005-0021), towards the rehabilitation of flood-damaged
secondary schools; (b) in February 2006, the inclusion of boys enrolled in project upazilas in the pro-poor self-
targeting pilot; and (c) the inclusion of sub-categories of expenditure under the Stipends and Tuition Category
(Schedule 1 to the DCA) for: (i) Academic Year 2007 (on June 26, 2007); and (ii) the first semester of Academic
Year 2008 (on November 8, 2007).

Cancellation. Following the MTR, in view of: (i) the substantial appreciation of the SDR vis-à-vis the US
dollar, and the Taka devaluation; and (ii) the lower number of beneficiary girls receiving stipends than anticipated
at appraisal (see Section 3.2 below), a cancellation of SDR21.4 million was made in August 2005.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis to support FSSAPII was sound. Project design was guided by the following: (a) the Fifth
Five-Year Plan (1997-2002), which provided priorities to improve education quality, and educational
management capacity, and to provide free tuition and stipend to unmarried girl students, especially in rural areas,
and to strengthen school management; (b) GoB's national education policy adopted in January 2001, which
emphasized strategies to improve education quality and rationalize the provision and management of secondary
education; (c) the Bangladesh Education Sector Review (World Bank 2000), which identified critical issues and
reform options in secondary education; (d) in-depth technical studies on the FSSAP implementation experience
focusing on secondary education quality, expansion of access for girls to secondary education, and project
management and institutional capacity; and (e) international experience on strategies to enhance education
quality.

As a follow up of FSSAP introduced in 1994 with a long-term vision for improving the education of girls,
FSSAPII was designed to consolidate the gains achieved under FSSAP. The objectives and component activities
were well-aligned with Government priorities, and major education sector issues.

The design of FSSAPII was inevitably influenced by the context prevailing during the FSSAPI implementation,
during which these factors weighed heavily: (a) coverage of all eligible girls for stipends and tuition based on
geographical targeting; (b) reliance on eligibility criteria to enhance quality rather than direct interventions; and
(c) monitoring of compliance with eligibility criteria through self-reporting by educational institutions instead of
independent monitoring and evaluation instruments. GoB's strategy was to address the above factors gradually,
primarily based on piloting. Key elements of FSSAPII design included a number of innovative approaches: (i)
piloting of the outreach program to feed into the formulation of a pro-poor self-targeting scheme by MTR; (ii)
piloting of the Mobile Training Resource Team (MTRT) to provide on-site support to teachers in four subjects
(Bangla, English Language, Mathematics and Science); (iii) implementation of subject-based teacher training,
head teacher and assistant head teacher training; (iv) training of school level stakeholders, including School
Management Committees and Parent-Teacher Associations; (v) introduction of enhanced criteria to reduce



                                                           - 4 -

possible leakages; and (vi) establishment of a Program Monitoring Unit (PMU) within DSHE to institutionalize
the monitoring of all its stipend programs. Given the above, the project design was appropriate.

The Government's strong commitment to the female stipends program continued beyond FSSAP, as reflected in
its ownership, and involvement project design and development. During project preparation, consultations were
held with Government ministers, senior officials of line ministries, teachers, students, community members,
including SMCs/PTAs. Several focused visits were made to project upazilas to discuss with field level
stakeholders, including USEOs and educational institutions.

While project risks identified were appropriate, one of these regarding response of the poorest girls and their
families to the stipend program proved to be substantial despite mitigation through the introduction of outreach
programs in few places, especially since stipend rates were too low to attract the poor girls, and the pass mark of
45 percent and 75 percent attendance acted as deterrent factors for their participation. A critical risk not identified
was the deployment and retention of qualified key staff, which became a major obstacle during project
implementation.

The Quality at Entry assessment undertaken by the Quality Assurance Group mentioned serious design problems
relating to the following: (a) targeting, i.e., reaching the low-income and remote girls most in need of stipend; (b)
improving the quality of secondary education when most of the schools are privately owned and run; (c)
achieving the sector reforms; and (d) successful and timely monitoring and evaluation. The last two assessments
are relevant since the project design did not focus on sector reforms (undertaken through different operations),
and greater focus was not placed on monitoring and evaluation through the introduction of a separate M&E sub-
component. However, the project addressed the first two appropriately within the context described above in this
Section (see also Section 5).

2.2 Implementation

From the time of design and preparation to until mid-term, both the project development objective and overall
project implementation remained satisfactory, with the achievement of the main project targets despite initial
delays in the procurement of consultant services. Key problems encountered in implementation after the MTR
included: (i) delay in the revision of the Development Project Proposal (DPP) to incorporate MTR agreements;
(ii) the departure of key staff because of promotion; and (iii) the effect of a Government circular relating to use of
additional eligibility criteria for stipends and tuition disbursement without IDA's consent, which threatened the
momentum in enrollment increases. However, after the approval of the revised DPP, reorganization of the POU,
and the return of key staff, project implementation picked up substantially, and planned activities were almost
completed before the second closing date extension.

By completion in June 2008, achievement of the project development objective was assessed as "Satisfactory"
because the available data indicated that the outcome indicators in terms of SSC pass rates, enrollment, capacity-
building, as well as associated output indicators showed improving trends. The project was extended to allow for
completion of planned activities, and was justified on the basis of the delays in procurement of consultants which
led to delayed start-up of several initiatives. The second extension was undertaken to allow for continuity before
the development of the follow-on operation, the Secondary Education Quality and Access Enhancement Project
(SEQAEP: Credit No 4475-BD), approved in July 2008. MoE/DSHE achieved notable results in the
implementation of many innovative activities under each of the three components, for example, performance
awards for students and institutions, MTRT pilot, pro-poor self-targeting pilot, the outreach programs, and school
management accountability training.

Some key aspects of the project design which helped to ensure steady implementation included: (a) the
partnership agreements with specialized agencies; (b) clearly specified steps of stipend and tuition disbursement,
from collection of information from educational institution and preparation of award confirmation forms to actual
distribution to students through Agrani Bank branches; (c) community participation in tube-well installation and
latrine construction; and (d) provision of piloting and experiments to innovate strategies for quality improvement

                                                            - 5 -

and targeting. For example, the partnership arrangements with Agrani Bank (to deliver stipends and tuition) and
with the Department of Public Health and Engineering (DPHE) for support to communities for installation of tube
wells and water quality testing were extremely vital to smooth implementation. Rather than contracting out
through an open competitive process, these partners were selected by the design team after careful and thorough
assessment of their appropriateness to add value to the project. While Agrani Bank faced issues of capacity and
the transaction costs were high to deliver the stipends, because of their close association as partners and strong
ownership and sense of social commitment, they addressed the challenges, and managed to provide on-time
delivery and reports. Similarly, DPHE, while keeping up the timeline of implementation, has also learnt from its
partnership under FSSAPII and is keen to promote this in other projects, including in other upazilas.

In 2006, a Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA7) was undertaken by the Quality Assurance Group. The
overall assessment of the period FY05-06 supervision was rated "Moderately Satisfactory." The Panel
highlighted that the main implementation challenges were addressed well in the areas of procurement, financial
management, and management of the stipends program, and targeting. However, the Panel pointed out some
weaknesses, most of which were addressed during subsequent implementation (see section 5).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: The strength of the M&E design was that the project featured built-in mechanisms to ensure that
systematic monitoring systems are created that lead to coordinated reports. DSHE/PMU was given specific
responsibilities ­ that of creating a database of female stipend programs, and using this database for analytical
work that feeds into improved programming. The female education cell of DSHE/PMU was to undertake studies
that would further enhance the evaluative nature of studies required under the project. The DSHE/POU had
responsibilities for carrying monitoring and evaluation work at the central level. These units were to be supported
by the Data Processing Center. In addition, performance-based monitoring included: (a) performance audit; (b)
the annual stipends and tuition audit; and (c) other research. Key weaknesses were: (i) performance indicators
were not well articulated though several indicators were identified in the project framework; (ii) the coordination
mechanism between PMU and POU monitoring was weak; (iii) a separate monitoring and evaluation sub-
component was not included, which would have given much greater focus on M&E activities; and (iv) a
comprehensive EMIS was not envisaged. Nevertheless, M&E design for the purpose of monitoring and reporting
for project interventions was adequate.

Implementation: The PMU established at DSHE monitored compliance of eligibility criteria for all stipend
projects and accountability mechanisms were strengthened. Owing primarily to stricter monitoring of compliance
with eligibility criteria for stipends, there was a decline in the number of girls receiving stipends in all stipend
projects under DSHE. The integrated database was developed, but could not become fully operational because of
technical incompatibilities of data processing across the stipend projects. Two impact evaluation studies were
carried out. Annual statistical reports covering all stipends projects were published. On the other hand, there was
inadequate capacity to analyze available data resulting in delays in signaling deviations. The capacity for
effective monitoring and evaluation remains inadequate despite several efforts to strengthen technical capacity at
DSHE. Based on the FSSAPII experience, PMU has been upgraded to be a DSHE's Monitoring and Evaluation
Wing under SEQAEP.

Utilization: Data collected and processed relating to the eligibility of students for stipends were used to prepare
Award Confirmation Forms (ACF), which provided the basis for disbursing stipends and tuition. The SSC results
information and other examinations results were collected and used to provide various performance incentive
awards. However, since the integrated database was not fully operational, DSHE could not obtain data from all
stipends programs on a timely basis, and hence information-based policy decisions could not be made.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard compliance is rated as satisfactory.



                                                            - 6 -

Environment Aspects: The project was classified as environmental category B, which required a partial
environmental assessment. The key environmental issues related primarily to provision of arsenic-safe drinking
water, testing of tube-wells, provision of latrines, and an awareness program to help manage arsenic risks,
hygiene and sanitation. An Environmental Analysis and Guidelines for Improvement of School Sanitation were
prepared in consultation with SMCs and the Department of Public Health Engineering. The Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) included indicators to help monitor activities relating to quality of facilities and
services, and for their operation and maintenance. The EMP also stipulated implementation through SMC in
conjunction with engineers from DPHE, and timely conducting and reporting of testing by USEOs.

No issues were reported regarding compliance with the Bank's policy and procedural requirements for ensuring
environmental safeguard compliance. Provision of sanitation and water facilities was highly satisfactory, as
targets for tube-well installation and latrine construction were exceeded (2,039 versus target of 2,000). In
addition, testing of tube-wells for arsenic contamination was carried out in five rounds, with the rate of
contamination decreasing from 18 percent, to 15 percent, to 13 percent, and to now 5-6 percent. The process of
testing instilled a culture of awareness of the detriments of arsenic contamination and remedies to reduce
contamination incidence, by either relocating water supply schemes to safer physical areas or installing deeper
tube-wells; and by marking contaminated water supply to indicate that the water was to be used only for non-
drinking purposes. SMC involvement in the provision of facilities and testing was evidently effective in ensuring
satisfactory compliance.

Social Aspects: The project's key social issues and the social development outcomes related to enhancing the
status and employment prospects for girls and women, contributing to poverty reduction, strengthening
participation of communities and various stakeholders to promote participatory processes and greater ownership
and awareness. The project, as evident from achievement of objectives relating to access and monitoring, has
been successful in achieving the social development objectives. Several studies conducted under the project on
female education issues, including impact studies, show a strong impact of the project on enhancing female
participation and improving their participation in employment. Participation of communities through SMC
involvement in water supply and sanitation was also a strong aspect of the project's contribution to strengthening
community participation. The project piloted poverty targeting which has led to adoption of a poverty-targeting
approach for stipends. Additionally, the project implemented outreach activities to target girls from remote and
disadvantaged areas. The New School Program increased access of secondary education to poor boys and girls.

Fiduciary compliance: Moderately Satisfactory.

Financial Management: The overall performance of financial management is rated as moderately satisfactory.
Initial weaknesses in the system, due to lack of adequate staff and capacity, continued to hamper effective
financial management functions. Except for initial delays in submission, Financial Management Reports (FMRs)
were received generally on time. Sometimes there were delays due to weak capacity to handle the computerized
accounting system which prompted IDA to send reminder letters to submit overdue FMRs. In terms of accuracy
and correctness, the FMRs were free from major discrepancies.

Audit: The audit reports for the project were received in a timely manner, audit objections identified by IDA as
material were duly responded to. The explanations provided and remedial actions taken were to the satisfaction of
IDA. A number of audit objections were raised for non-availability of the supporting documents at the right
location and non transparent and non competitive procurement practices. The use of project vehicles for non-
project related activities by the concerned Ministry was an issue throughout the project life (a practice prevalent
across the portfolio and not specific to this project).

Disbursements: Disbursements, averaging about 14 percent per year, were $104.6 million as of December 10,
2008 (representing 94 percent of the revised Credit amount). The unutilized balance of US$7.1 million equivalent
is being cancelled, bringing the total cancelled amount to about US$32 million equivalent. The reasons for the
underutilization are explained under Sections 1.7 and 3.2.


                                                          - 7 -

Procurement: Performance in procurement aspects under the project is moderately satisfactory. After protracted
delays in the initial years, particularly in the procurement of consultants for the quality and management/
accountability components, project procurement improved over time. During six years of the project, DSHE did
not develop adequate procurement management capacity. There was a significant initial delay in procurement
processing especially in the consultancy services. The selection of all major consultancy services was delayed by
two years which was the key concern during the first two years of the project. Post review of contracts funded by
this project was done during the past three years. Out of the contracts reviewed, no major deviation was found.
However, DSHE has considerable weaknesses in terms of internal control, bid/proposal evaluation, award delays,
transparency, management of procurement process, and handling complaints; more specifically selection of
complex consultancy services.

Under the flood component, partly financed from earmarked unutilized funds under the project at the MTR under
a formal Post-Flood Recovery Assistance Program, and implemented directly by MoE through the Education
Engineering Department (EED), the Bank declared mis-procurement of one prior review and two post-review
contracts due to collusive practice by the bidders.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In August 2008, the Government launched the implementation of SEQAEP, which incorporated successful
FSSAPII innovative activities such as performance-based incentive awards, including the SSC incentive awards,
the MTRT, the pro-poor self-targeting scheme, the Family Attractiveness Program, the New School Program, and
school management accountability. It is to be noted with appreciation the enthusiasm in the Government for
taking forward the good lessons from FSSAP for expanding access to secondary education by focusing on
targeting the poor, including both boys and girls. The support activities, such as the incentive awards and quality
assurance schemes are important to continue, and it is encouraging that these form part of the next phase
operations. It is important, however, to highlight that three areas that are included in SEQAEP need to be further
emphasized: (a) improvement of quality, with emphasis on evidence-based (i.e., student achievement) analysis;
(b) this would be supported by stronger and more coordinated and comprehensive monitoring & evaluation
systems that track and analyze all interventions in the secondary system; and (c) greater focus on improving
accountability, including through a comprehensive capacity-building program for SMCs/PTAs and more
integration of the local level education officer support within the overall secondary education support system.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of Objectives: The project was designed to be consistent with the overarching objective poverty
reduction of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) 2001, which further supported Government plans and
policies reflected in the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1997-2002). Throughout implementation, the objectives of the
project remained relevant and consistent with GoB's current PRSP, Unlocking the Potential: National Strategy
for Accelerated Poverty Reduction, Government of People's Republic of Bangladesh, 2005, which lays out an
ambitious agenda and commitment to systemic reforms. To generate growth and reduce poverty, the PRSP
focuses on: (a) employment generation; (b) nutrition; (c) maternal health; (d) quality of education; (e) sanitation
and safe water; (f) justice system; and (g) local governance. They were also consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), Country Assistance Strategy for the People's Republic of Bangladesh ­ FY06-09,
Report No. 35193, The World Bank, 2006. The CAS emphasizes empowering the poor as one of the two pillars.
The CAS also identifies improving educational quality to be a critical challenge. It proposes to assist in these
areas by strengthening the accountability ­ as part of governance agenda its cross-cutting theme. The project's
objectives were in line with those of GoB as articulated in the PRSP ­aiming to improve the quality of education
at the secondary level, while enhancing access of education to the poor it can play an important role in effectively
operationalizing GoB's strategy in the education sector.



                                                          - 8 -

Design and Implementation: The design of the project was relevant, reflecting proper diagnosis and plans to
meet the above development priorities. The focus on expanding access through continued stipend support, with
the introduction of quality improvement and gradual targeting approaches, was in response to maintaining the
momentum on improving girls' participation in secondary education while introducing innovative ways to
improve the quality of learning. With hindsight, the project would have benefited substantially from having a
sub-component on monitoring and evaluation, which would have provided a strong focus on measuring the effect
of the innovative activities and project outcomes.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project development objective (PDO) was to improve the quality of, and girls' access to, secondary education
in rural areas, and to improve both the MoE's management capacity and monitoring and accountability
mechanisms. Overall, project achievement was substantial under all three components, with most major targets
reached. In addition, as envisaged at appraisal, the project was successful in implementing a number of
innovations, which MoE has already adopted or is in the process of mainstreaming (in-service subject teacher
training, head teacher training, mobile training resource teams, performance incentives to students, teachers, and
institutions, outreach programs, targeting, upazila and school level capacity-building, and comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation), as explained below.

Progress in implementation remained steady and contributed to substantial achievement of the project
development objective. Achievements in these PDO indicators were satisfactory, and included since the baseline
of 2001:

(a) increase from 39 percent to 62.6 percent (2008) in the SSC pass rate for awardee girls;
(b) increase from 37 percent to 54.5 percent (2008) in the SSC pass rate for non-awardee girls;
(c) increase in SSC pass rate for boys from 39 percent to 63.5 percent; and
(d) and the absolute number of awardee girls passing the SSC increased from 23,231 to 32,282. The total number
of girls passing the SSC in 2008 (at 51,223) was the highest since 2001.

In terms of increasing access to secondary education, based on Household Income Expenditure Surveys 2000 and
2005, net enrollment rates have risen from 37.8 percent to 44.6 percent. Remarkable progress was made in
management capacity strengthening both at central and field levels. DSHE's capacity to monitor stipends
programs has increased substantially. At school level, the capacity to manage has increased primarily through
training of SMCs and USEOs.

The following provides an assessment of how the PDO was achieved.

Development Objective 1: Quality of education improved
Satisfactory. Overall, the project was successful in helping to achieve objectives relating to quality improvement.
Unlike the access agenda, which was building upon the foundations of the first FSSAP, the quality component
was introduced under FSSAPII to translate the gains in access into sustained improvements in secondary
education.

Several innovations were implemented which helped to demonstrate strategies for improving the classroom
learning environment. Most notably, the project pioneered in-service teacher training and the head
teacher/assistant head teacher training initiatives with follow up through the Mobile Training Resource Team
(MTRT) program. In terms of achievement in implementation of the training sub-component, the project largely
achieved the targets, with marginal shortfall owing to vacancies. Moreover, materials and modules developed
under the project were adopted by MoE for its national training program, thus reinforcing the sustainability of
these activities. Performance-based incentives ­ such as the incentive awards to teachers based on SSC results,
excellence awards, and school improvement awards to institutions and performance awards for female students ­
were also introduced under the project. Improved water and sanitation facilities also contributed to an improved
learning environment. Further improvement in the quality of secondary education remains a key challenge, with

                                                          - 9 -

special emphasis required to improve the quality of student learning. While evidence suggests that the learning
achievement levels of secondary students is low due to persistent poor quality at the primary levels, the challenge
in the future is to focus on improving the measures of achievement at the secondary level, and providing focused
interventions to improve student learning. It is encouraging that the lessons of experience from FSSAPII have
been incorporated into SEQAEP and other initiatives undertaken by DSHE, and that the Government is keen to
continue to build upon the good experiences of the project, reinforcing the sustainability of achievement of
objectives in the secondary sector.

Development Objective 2: Access and retention of girls increased
Satisfactory. The major achievement of the project was in increasing access and contributing towards greater
retention of girls in the project upazilas. In particular, maintaining positive levels of gender parity at secondary
level was one of the project's most significant contributions. The stipend and tuition support sub-component was
the key to help achieve the development objective indicators relating to increased access and retention of girls.
The stipends and tuition program initiated under FSSAP was replicated in all rural upazilas nationwide under
FSSAPII and support from Government and other donors. To help enhance participation of disadvantaged
children in secondary schooling, the outreach initiatives, including the Family Attractiveness Program (FAP), and
the New School Program contributed to the development of the Pro-Poor Self-Targeting Scheme (PPST) for
stipends and tuition introduced in the project after the MTR. The experience of PPST has led to the adoption of
poverty targeting approach under SEQAEP covering disadvantaged boys as well. Although FSSAPII was not
poverty-targeted, analysis of the 2005 Household and Income Expenditure Survey (HIES) shows that 30 percent
of the beneficiaries were in the poorest two quintiles, compared with 22 percent of non-beneficiaries (secondary
school students not receiving stipends).

The project intended to support 6.3 million girl-years of education in Grades 6-10. By the end of the project, 6.9
million girl-years were supported, with the target being exceeded on account of the extension in the project
period. This is a commendable achievement. Girls' enrollment increased from 1.09 million in 2001 to 1.21
million in the project upazilas in 2007. The original target of 1.45 million girls was unrealistic, since it was based
on a trend analysis of enrollment under FSSAP (under which eligibility criteria were not as strictly enforced as in
FSSAPII). Girls' enrollment as a percentage of total enrollment was about 56 percent, thus successfully
maintaining gender parity.

One disturbing trend, witnessed across Bangladesh, was the declining levels in enrollment during 2004-2006.
This trend was reversed in the last two years of the project in the project upazilas ­ largely owning to emphasis on
raising awareness. Preliminary analysis of the Household and Income Expenditure Survey 2005 and data from
Bangladesh Bureau of Educational Information and Statistics (BANBEIS)2 also indicated that girls' enrollment in
all Bangladesh declined starting in 2004. Reasons for the reduction in enrollment are that: (i) the baseline figures
were inflated; (ii) the application of enhanced educational eligibility criteria was efficient in weeding out
uneligible or fake girls; (iii) the strict enforcement of eligibility criteria, as claimed by the Government, had the
effect of discouraging of girls, who could not genuinely attend secondary education; and (iv) the use of additional
criteria nationally by GoB seemingly for budgetary reasons had an inadvertently negative effect as well. It is
strongly recommended, however, that BANBEIS and other units undertake a more comprehensive study to
understand the decline in enrollment figures. It is important to undertake a comprehensive analysis of enrollment
data beyond the confines of project data, using the national database.

Development Objective 3: Strengthened management and monitoring, and accountability mechanisms
Moderately Satisfactory. The project led to a reasonably reliable capacity to plan, coordinate, manage, monitor
and evaluate stipend programs in the secondary education system, and performance in this development objective
is assessed as moderately satisfactory. Considering that at the onset of the project in 2001 when the DSHE had
only minimal capacity to oversee stipend implementation and had limited capacity to plan, monitor, evaluate and
coordinate the various programs in secondary education, the project has made a respectable contribution to

2Bangladesh Educational Statistics, 2006, BANBEIS


                                                            - 10 -

strengthening of the system's capacity. While these capacities can be further improved over time including in
terms of coordination, it is especially important to note that the program monitoring and operational units have
become regular functions of the DSHE, and will continue to undertake critical planning and monitoring for the
continuing programs in secondary education. Furthermore, MoE/DSHE needs to be commended for upgrading
the Program Monitoring Unit established under this project to a Monitoring and Evaluation Wing, which will be
able to monitor all DSHE programs, and carry out necessary program evaluation. On improving accountability,
however, while good progress was made in implementing the training for various stakeholders at all levels for
promoting better SMC participation, there is a lot more to be done to make SMCs effective participants in
management of schools. However, reforming SMCs is beyond the purview of a single investment project such as
FSSAPII; and such reforms would need to be addressed through a comprehensive reform initiative by the MoE.
FSSAPII has contributed valuable lessons for the need to improve the composition and participation of SMC and
the importance of PTA to oversee the performance and enhance quality of schools.

3.3 Efficiency
Satisfactory. An analysis of factors affective efficiency in project implementation reveal significant efficiency
gains under key activities under both the components for improving education quality and increasing access and
girls' retention. These are described below.

Training activities: The implementation of training activities (in-service teacher training, head teacher/assistant
head teacher training, mobile training resource team and stakeholder training) was delayed due to late deployment
of consultants. However, the training activities were implemented efficiently with low cost and achievement
exceeded the targets in many activities. The estimated total budget saving in training activities was Tk117.8
million (appraisal estimate: Tk406.6 million versus actual costs of Tk288.8 million). A huge saving was made
under MTRT activities as the Project adopted a cost-effective alternative with mobile team with intermittent use
of resource persons rather than establishing a fixed resource centre deploying permanent experts. Similarly, all
training activities utilized existing venues and resource persons of different training institutions, which helped
develop training capacity at the field level, as well as utilize the unused capacity.

Improved school facilities: Achievement exceeded targets for installing twin latrines and tube-wells with the
saving of Tk18.2 million (appraisal estimate: Tk116.1 million versus actual costs of Tk97.9 million).
Community participation was ensured as planned. Though arsenic testing of tube-wells by DPHE was irregular,
the testing mechanism was cost-effective since the test kits were made available initially from other projects free
of costs, and later on procured from the project for the last rounds, and minimum mobilization cost was provided
to DPHE for testing. The formation of user group from the beginning and the introduction of a report card system
also helped ensure sustainability of this activity.

Stipends and tuition: Both stipends and tuition were disbursed efficiently by minimizing delays and ensuring
minimal of leakages. A number of strategies were undertaken, which include: (i) adoption of additional
simplified and enhanced criteria (new entry limited to Grade 6 and Grade 9, requirement of registration of
respective Boards for Grade 10, and application of 45 percent mark criteria based on half-yearly and annual
exams); (ii) strict enforcement of eligibility criteria (75% attendance, 45% marks, and staying unmarried); (iii) use
of agreed steps with timeline to ensure disbursement of stipends and tuition in April/May and October/November
each year, and (iv) regular audit of stipends and tuition from independent agency. This program was extended for
three semesters not because of delays or inefficiencies but because of the decision to ensure continuity of stipends
program under the follow-on project. As a result of these efficiency measures, the number of eligible girls
declined substantially, which led to the saving of Tk729.7 million (appraisal estimate: Tk4,884.7 million versus
actual costs of Tk4,155 million). Although this affected total enrollment, the education quality indicators (as
measured by the SSC pass rate) improved because of strict monitoring activities.

Outreach activities: Despite a delayed start, due to late deployment of consultant, the implementation of outreach
activities (programs for family attractiveness and new school) was efficient and contributed to the development of
a pro-poor self targeting scheme. This became a targeting platform for introducing the Proxy-Means Testing
stipends and tuition program in the follow-on project. Community participation in the established new schools

                                                           - 11 -

helped economize resources and develop the ownership required for sustainability. The Government has provided
Monthly Pay Order (MPO) for teachers in many new schools, and has shown commitment to provide MPO for all
remaining new schools. The actual cost of this activity exceeded the appraisal target (Tk 125.9 million) by Tk
111.9 million not because of inefficiency, but because of the implementation of pro-poor self targeting scheme,
which included both boys and girls based on poverty criteria, not envisaged at appraisal.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Objective                                            Relevance Efficacy        Efficiency    Outcome
1. Improving the Quality of Secondary Education        High        High
2. Increasing Access and Retention of Girls            High        Moderate Satisfactory     Satisfactory
3. Strengthening Management, Accountability, and       High        Moderate
Monitoring

The relevance of all three development objectives was high, and remains so in the context of the secondary
education sector challenges in Bangladesh. There was substantial efficiency in working towards achievement of
expanding access, and strengthening management, accountability and monitoring for the secondary education
sector. Improvement of quality will take more time, but a very good foundation for improving quality, including
provision of performance incentives, has been put in place. Further improvements in accountability with greater
capacity building of SMCs also require more focus. The criteria of relevance, efficacy and efficiency were for the
most part substantially met.

The overall "satisfactory" rating of the project takes into account the achievements in the targets for almost all
indicators. In the quality indicators, achievements exceeded the actual targets, including for the passing rate and
for delivery of performance based awards. On the access side, the gender parity ratio maintained, and respectable
progress was achieved in implementation of the outreach initiatives. Because of more stringent monitoring
against eligibility criteria over the years, the number of girls receiving stipend declined. There was also a decline
in overall female enrollment across the country during 2004-06, but the project managed to reverse the downward
trend in the project upazilas. Several achievements were made to improve accountability, management and
monitoring ­ most notably the systems developed in the DSHE which will help to sustain capacity for planning,
implementation and monitoring in the secondary education sector. However, while training of SMCs remained on
track, broader capacity building was not part of the project but will be required to achieve long term development
outcomes in the sector relating to greater accountability through community participation. The project has rich
experience to offer to continuing efforts across a broader canvas to improve access and outcomes in secondary
education. Finally, many of the experiments under FSSAPII have been successful, and have shown promise of
replicability.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
While more substantial impact evaluations and studies are warranted, evidence based on project data and
discussions with communities shows a substantial impact of the project on improving gender parity, women's
empowerment, and reaching out to disadvantaged areas. Studies conducted by the DSHE also show positive
impacts of the stipend on girls and their participation in employment. In the project area, girls share in total
secondary enrollment is 56 percent, which signals maintenance of gender parity.

The project's greatest achievement in positively impacting poverty and gender development emerges from the
demonstration impact of the many innovative interventions, ranging from outreach programs in disadvantaged
areas, to piloting poverty targeting, providing fellowship support to FSSAP graduates for creating a pool of
female teachers, performance based awards, etc. These types of initiatives have provided lessons for both scaling
up and focusing on interventions that will have larger impacts on poverty reduction and social development in the


                                                           - 12 -

long term. An evaluation of the pro-poor targeting pilot indicated that under the Pro-poor self-targeting a greater
percentage of beneficiaries were from the poorest two quintiles.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project's greatest contributions to long-term institutional change relate to: (a) the introduction of an
innovative and effective in-service teacher and head teacher/assistant head teacher training system with on-site
support by an expert team; (b) putting in place mechanisms to improve school management, including
establishment of USEOs and promotion of SMCs; and (c) the institutionalization of the monitoring and evaluation
system introduced under the project into the mainstream DSHE.

The in-service training strengthened capacity at the school level of teachers, assistant teachers and heads of
institutions, and the MTRT program ensured on-site support and mentoring for trained teachers. Both of these
initiatives have enabled the establishment of a foundation for quality improvement in the secondary education
sector, and it is encouraging that the Government's commitment continues to strengthen and expand ongoing
support for teachers as an integral part of the DSHE's mandate.

Field capacity has increased with the establishment of USEOs (being transferred into revenue budget by the
GoB), and through training on school management accountability for SMC and PTA members (GoB is
considering to introduce reform based on the FSSAPII experience). This is further supported by ongoing support
for teachers under the MTRT. While these are strong foundations for instilling an institutional change to improve
quality at the school level, Government will need to focus on strengthening all of these processes to ensure long-
term sustainability and integration in the mainstream system.

The project has also helped to develop institutional capacity in the system to monitor all stipend programs in the
country. While a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation wing in DSHE has been created based on the
experience of program monitoring unit, more systemic efforts are required to coordinate among all interventions
in the secondary sector, including making a fully integrated database functional to improve planning and
efficiency.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The project was successful in achieving its development objectives. Beyond these, the project also appears to
have led to greater awareness among communities for girls' participation not only in secondary education but also
in gaining employment. There is also anecdotal evidence of delays in marriage age, which would also lead to
decline in fertility rates. More rigorous studies in these areas are warranted. The project also has had an
unintended impact on creating a demand for access to banking services, as a spillover effect of girls' maintaining
bank accounts for receiving stipends. Agrani Bank plans to undertake an evaluative study to assess girls'
continuing desire and demand for banking services even after they are no longer receiving stipend support. On a
less positive note, there was the perception among some communities that too much emphasis on girls' education
at secondary level was discouraging boys' participation. Since boys' enrollment grew from 894,594 in 2002 to
923,838 in 2008, in general the problem is not acute. Nevertheless, as indicated elsewhere, boys were also
included in the pro-poor self-targeting pilot under the project. Moreover, under a new operation (Secondary
Education Quality and Access Enhancement Project ­ Cr. 4475-BD), poor boys are also targeted in the stipends
and tuition program.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Throughout the course of the project, there were several formal and informal consultations with stakeholders. At
the time of project preparation, several consultations with held with various groups, ranging from parents/SMCs
to teachers. In August 2005, a stakeholder workshop was organized to review interim lessons learned from
project implementation, including implementation and monitoring arrangements, sustainability and long term
implications for continuing with stipend support. As part of the design of the poverty targeting pilot, several
discussions were held at the field level to identify appropriate elements for the design of the targeting strategy. At
the time of the closing of the project, the ICR team conducted a workshop with several stakeholders including

                                                          - 13 -

project officials, other relevant government officials, teachers, heads, parents, USEOs, students, etc. Generally,
the feedback was positive, with a large number of persons being aware of the importance of girls' education, and
providing inputs on how to enhance the quality of education (use of flexible hours, provision of stipends to poor
boys and girls, better provision in Mathematics and English, and greater use of learning materials) (see Annex 6).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risk rating is based on the moderate risk factors that exist in the longer term sustainability of the outcomes,
and the remaining gaps in access which are challenged by social and demand aspects, and capacity of the system.
Despite significant project achievements, especially in inputs for capacity building, and increased enrollments in
secondary education, there remain several concerns for the ongoing education system which, if not addressed
adequately, may result in project outcomes not being sustained, and will certainly pose a major challenge for any
proposed further expansion of the education system. These include: (i) the need for strengthening capacity at the
upazila level and below to support schools and communities, including through a mainstreamed USEO, through
stronger SMCs which would create greater awareness and demand; and (ii) greater coordination among all the
country level systems and programs for secondary education, under the leadership of the DSHE, which would
also help to ensure better planning, and monitoring.

Given that the stipend program has now evolved into a program to provide targeted stipend support on the basis of
poverty, financial and economic risk factors are negligible. Further, the political risks are non-existent as the
Government commitment to strengthening girls' participation at all levels of education will benefit from the
various lessons learned from a decade of FSSAP and FSSAPII experience, including for improving quality of
learning as tested in FSSAPII.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory. The Bank team worked
closely with GoB to prepare the project, making conscious efforts to consult with stakeholders from the education
sector as well as the ministries. Project preparation took into account lessons learned from the two previous
projects, strong sector analysis, and the implementation experience of the first project. The design of the projects
sought to complement and expand further the work from the previous project. Further, the project's design took
into account the need to strengthen implementation and monitoring arrangements. The quality at entry
assessment by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rightly indicated that the project design did not place greater
focus on sector reforms (as this was done under other MoE activities), and monitoring and evaluation (where
addition of an M&E sub-component would have been appropriate). The QAG's rated quality at entry as
"Moderately Unsatisfactory" primarily because of the absence of targeting from the outset, and reportedly the
difficulty of improving education quality in mostly private institutions. However, the QAG's assessment that
targeting ought to have started from the beginning of the project was flawed since it did not take account of the
political economy risks in a low-income country of converting overnight from a national approach of "entitlement
to stipends" to one only focused on poor girls. Indeed, it took years for GoB to realize that a system of targeting
for the stipends program is needed to ensure greater access to both poor girls and boys, and program
sustainability. The QAG's assessment that education quality could not be improved since most schools were
privately owned and run was also unfounded, since these schools received subventions from MoE based inter alia
on their educational performance.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

                                                          - 14 -

Overall quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory. Feedback gained from the FSSAPII Project Office and the
DSHE suggests that the Bank's task team was a close partner in helping to ensure effective implementation. In
particular, the supervision strategy included support for preparing annual work plan and budget and strengthening
the monitoring system and then relying on the regular information from the M&E system to guide
implementation. Supervision of fiduciary aspects was adequate, with issues on financial management and
procurement being raised in a timely manner. For example, there was consistent follow up on the delays in
procurement of consultants and for putting in place stronger procurement management capacity by the Bank's
procurement staff. On the financial management side, the Bank's team provided reasonable oversight on the
financial reporting for the project, and in working with the project staff to resolve audit objections. More field-
based supervision could help to deepen the analysis and support provided through desk-based and office-based
supervision, especially in terms of identification of bottlenecks and capacity constraints encountered at the
implementation level.

The quality of supervision had been rated `Moderately Satisfactory' by the Quality of Supervision Assessment
(QSA7) group, for supervision in FY05-06, including for focus on development effectiveness, supervision of
fiduciary/safeguard aspects, and candor and quality of the ISRs. Adequacy of supervision inputs and processes
was rated as `Satisfactory' by the panel. The task team's response to the QSA panel's assessment makes a strong
argument against the less than satisfactory rating assigned for quality of supervision, mainly on account of
likelihood of meeting of development objectives. Having reviewed the panel's assessment and the task team's
response, it is the view of the ICR team that the quality of supervision on all accounts was indeed satisfactory, the
strategy for supervision adequate, and that the threats to meeting of development objectives were not a failing on
part of the team's performance of supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR team's assessment of satisfactory rating for overall Bank performance is based on the Bank team's
flexible response to the needs of the country and the education sector, working closely together on the design and
implementation of the project. In particular, the task team was successful in introducing pro-poor self-targeting
scheme during MTR, which proved to be a breakthrough in the implementation of a sustainable stipend program.
Good and sustained relationship established with GoB made it possible to communicate from a distance and to
resolve promptly any procurement and implementation issues. There was solid team work throughout the project
and proactive, positive dialogue with stakeholders. The team's use of increased supervision resources was
legitimate in light of the greater emphasis on targeting and M&E (including impact evaluation) soon after the
mid-term review. This rating differs from QAG's lower ratings as described above. First, the ICR team has
assessed Bank performance during the entire project period through June 30, 2008, whereas the QAG review was
conducted in 2005/06. It is the ICR team's assessment that Bank's performance and effectiveness in supervision
improved significantly in the last years of the project. Given the substantial achievement of the project
development objectives, the successful implementation of many innovative activities under rather difficult
environments, and MoE's extremely positive feedback on IDA's performance, the overall Bank performance
rating of "Satisfactory" is justified.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The improvement in the timely disbursement of stipends was possible because of provision of counterpart funds
in time. The commitment and ownership of the GoB along with its willingness to learn from the experience of the
previous projects and to place priority on national needs had a strong impact on project design. GoB's ongoing
political will facilitated project implementation. The role of the MoE was critical in ensuring continued
commitment to the stipend program and for creating awareness and demand for female education.


                                                          - 15 -

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the DSHE in guiding the overall implementation and helping to improve weaknesses in the
management and monitoring systems was found to be fully satisfactory. The POU/PMU had sound performance
with its tasks for the overall coordination and oversight of the project, the procurement of goods and services, the
management of the project accounts, liaison with the various implementation units with the MoE, and monitoring
the progress of the project. There were weaknesses and certain inadequacies in financial management staffing,
which continued throughout the period of project implementation, but the oversight provided by the project
management team ensured timely resolution of outstanding issues in both financial management and procurement.
Performance of implementation at the field level (upazila and below) was also adequate as evidenced by
satisfactory achievement of targets, and timely provision of data and information for monitoring purposes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall satisfactory rating is based on the government's strong commitment and readiness to implement the
project. Sufficient staff continuity and attentiveness to various issues ensured that most of the work was carried
out promptly and efficiently. Despite frequent changes at the level of the project director, the continuity of key
project staff throughout the course of implementation, and their continuation in the follow on project is a strong
indication of the commitment of the GoB to this important project and the overall stipend program, and also of the
DSHE's keen oversight and engagement in the project. The Borrower ensured quality of preparation and
implementation, complied with covenants and agreements, and ensured the project reached its development
objectives.

6. Lessons Learned

·   Quality of education. The impact from interventions such as teacher/head teacher/assistant head teacher
    training, and the provision of incentives for quality education diminishes if the core problems impinging upon
    education quality are not tackled upfront, especially in an environment of low-quality education.
    Furthermore, provision of safe drinking water and toilet facilities is likely to reduce the burden of disease and
    increase students' aptitude to learn.

·   Efforts to improve quality will not succeed unless there are capable subject teachers. Teacher provisioning
    especially in mathematics, English and science has been a significant challenge in secondary schools.
    Schools which have the requisite number of teachers, the focus is now on improving teacher quality through
    changes in classroom practices, supported by on-site support

·   Maintaining gender balance and deployment and retention of capable teachers. Whilst keeping the focus on
    girls will always be important for various socio-economic reasons, it is equally important to consider the
    problem of poor boys in enrolling and completing secondary education. An area where greater emphasis is
    needed is in increasing the number of female teachers in secondary education, given that research has shown
    that parents are less willing to send their daughters to school with only male teachers. Similarly special
    attention should be given to deploy and retain capable teacher in critical subjects such as mathematics,
    English and science.

·   Reaching and retaining poor students in school. In order to reach and retain poor students in school, it is
    necessary to: (a) have a systematic method of selecting poorer students; (b) raise adequate awareness among
    communities; (c) provide adequate amount of stipends to meet basic school costs; and (d) conduct appropriate
    evaluation to assess impact. Further, provision of free textbooks and materials through secondary (Grade 10)
    should be considered by government as an accompanying intervention to any incentive.

                                                          - 16 -

·   Enhancing access through demand-side interventions. The Government's strategy to promote education for
    girls through demand-side interventions has proven successful in expanding access to education. This
    approach should be extended to promote education for poor boys and girls.

·   Community involvement. Community involvement is essential for improving service delivery in remote and
    disadvantaged areas and for ensuring project sustainability. When communities have meaningful
    responsibilities, control over resources, and are accountable, they become actively engaged in project
    activities, thereby bolstering community participation.

·   Capacity building of SMCs/PTAs. Community participation is enhanced if school level stakeholders are
    aware of their roles and responsibilities, including accountability. The composition of SMC/PTA needs to be
    revisited and capacity of SMCs/PTAs needs to be enhanced to ensure that they play their roles effectively.

·   Innovations. For innovations to be successful, their design need to take account of ground realities, and they
    need to be piloted and implemented with greater involvement of key stakeholders, with some degree of
    flexibility to incorporate ongoing lessons. In this respect, legal and government documents should provide
    for this flexibility to ensure effective implementation.

·   Sustainability. It is crucial to design and support institutional partnership arrangements for project
    implementation (such as those undertaken with Agrani Bank for stipend distribution) to maximize
    institutional development impact, and ensure sustainability. This enhances ownership of the implementing
    agency and strengthens coordination, leading to greater possibilities of replication of successful interventions.
    For future programs, such as capacity building of SMCs, similar institutional arrangements/partnerships
    should be considered.

·   Ensuring rigorous project evaluation. Establishing a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation system is
    critical in ensuring that the approaches adopted by the project under various components are properly
    evaluated. This will help determine whether the project is meeting its goals and objective, and also provide
    information/data for real-time corrective action.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower has provided its own detailed ICR in Annex 7. The Borrower has also reviewed the ICR and found
compatible with FSSAPII implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

Stakeholder consultations are outlined in Annex 6.




                                                          - 17 -

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                 Actual/Latest
             Components                   Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
                                           (USD millions)       Estimate (USD
                                                                   millions)             Appraisal

Improve Secondary Education Quality             10.8                   9.6                 89%
Increase Access and Retention of Girls        104.1                   89.1                 89%
Strengthen Management,
Accountability and Monitoring                   11.6                  14.3                123%


                   Total Baseline Cost        126.5                 112.9                  92%

Physical Contingencies                           0.4                   0.00                0.00

Price Contingencies                             17.7                   0.00                0.00
Flood Rehabilitation (Part Z of Project)                              14.3                 6%
                    Total Project Costs       144.6                 127.3                  86%



Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                  0.00                .00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.00                  0.00                .00
           Total Financing Required           144.62                127.3



(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest
              Source of Funds                  Type of                                    Percentage of
                                             Cofinancing      Estimate       Estimate
                                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                                       23.59      21.2           90%
Local Communities                                  -            0.24      0.24           100%
International Development Association
(IDA)                                           Credit         120.90     105.8          88%




                                                     - 18 -

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Four sets of tables are reported here for additional information on the project's progress to support discussion in
Section 3: Assessment of Outcomes. The first table (2A) reports on progress against the component activities. The
second table (2B) reports on further details of progress against outcome indicators. The third table (2c) reports on
further details of progress against project indicators. The fourth table (2db) reports on planned and actual schedule of
disbursement.

Table 2A: Project Progress by Component

            Component/Sub-                 Target Output/Beneficiary        Achievement/Actual         Outcome/Impact
    Component/Objectives/Activities                  (Original)                     Output
  Component 1: Improving the Quality of Secondary Education
  A. Teacher Education, Training and Support for Stakeholders
  1.  Head Teacher (HT) and Assistant   6,000 HTs and 6,698 Assistant      6,625 HTs and 3,882     · System of in-service
      HT Training                       head teachers (AHTs) (not in       AHTs trained              teacher training
                                        original plan) trained                                       established, including
  2.  In-service Teacher Training       IST provided to 26,800 teachers;   23,484 teachers trained   on-site support
  3.  Stakeholder Training              20,695 stakeholders trained        19,000 stakeholders     · Stakeholders sensitized
                                                                           trained                   on education quality
  4.  Mobile Training Resource Team     748 schools covered by MTRT        1,077 schools covered     issues
      (MTRT)                                                               by 40 team of 160
                                                                           members
  5.  Fellowship Support for FSSAP      240 fellowships awarded            125 girls awarded
      Graduates                                                            (HSC:54, BA-B.Ed:7,
                                                                           and B.Ed:64)
  B. Incentive Award for School Performance and Improvement
  6.  Excellence Awards School          860 educational institutions           646 educational     · SSC pass rates in
      Awards (more than 5%              awarded                              institutions awarded    project educational
      improvement in transition,                                                                     institutions increased
      dropout, repetition and                                                                        from 39% in 2001 to
      completion rates for girls in                                                                  62% in 2008
      secondary schools and                                                                        .
      performance of students in SSC
      examination) (male and female).
      Number of schools receiving
      excellence award)
  7.  School Improvement Plan           424 educational institutions       415 educational
      Awards                            awarded                            institutions awarded
  8.  SSC incentive award to            educational institutions receiving 3,615 educational
      meritorious schools               SSC incentive award based on       institutions awarded
                                        increase in the number of students (916 in 2005, 1,527 in
                                        passing SSC                        2006 and 1,172 in
                                                                           2007)
  C. Incentive Awards for Student Achievement
  9.  Best performing girls award       64,000 girls awarded                   62,360 awarded      ·   Same as above
  10. Most performing girls award       64,000 girls awarded                   60,711 awarded
  D. Improved School Facilities
  11. School Facilities                 Construction of 2000 latrines and  2,042 tube-wells (977   ·   Improved physical
                                        installation of 2000 tube-wells    shallow ones and 1,065      learning environment
                                                                           deep ones) installed
                                                                           and 2042 latrines
                                                                           constructed




                                                                - 19 -

  Component 2: Increasing Access and Retention of Girls
  A. Stipends and Tuitions
  12. Stipends and Tuitions           6.3 million girl years supported   6.9 girls years         · Enrollment of girls
                                                                         supported                 increased from 1.15
  13. Pro-Poor Self-Targeting         424 institutions covered           424 institutions covered  million in 2001 to 1.18
       (introduced during Mid-Term                                       with 0.39 million boys    million in 2008, and
       Review)                                                           and girls                 boys from 0.88 million
                                                                                                   to 0.92 million, despite
                                                                                                   a general decline due to
                                                                                                   demographic changes
  B. Outreach (FAP and NSP)
  14. Family Attractiveness Program   2,400 girl-years supported         760 girls               · Modest gains in
       (FAP)                                                             (Program merged later     reaching poorer
                                                                         on with PPST pilot)       students in poor areas
  15. New School Program (NSP)        Establishment support to 60        25 new schools            provided the platform
                                      school's under NSP (MTR revised    established               for introduction of
                                      target: 25)                                                  poverty-based targeting

  Component 3: Strengthening Management, Accountability and Monitoring
  A. DSHE Program Management
  16. PMU                             PMU: DSHE/PMU established          M&E Wing established    · Replication of stipend
                                      and staff trained and              at DSHE                   program nationwide
                                      institutionalization of PMU at                             · Integration of stipend
                                      DSHE                                                         program in DSHE
                                                                                                   activities, especially in
  17. Integrated Database             Functional female education        Integrated data base      monitoring
                                      stipends integrated database       developed, but yet to be
                                                                         functional
  B. DSHE Project Operations
  18. POU management                  A fully staffed DSHE Project       Established and         · Trained staff in project
                                      Operations Unit fully established  operationalized           being transferred to
  19. M&E                             Strengthened M&E                   Strengthened              revenue budget
  20. DPC                             DPC fully staffed and functioning  Fully staffed and
                                                                         functional
  C. School Management and Accountability
  21. School Management and           Training packages for SMC          64,000 SMC members      · SMC reform started
       Accountability                 members and other key              and 64,000 PTA            based on feedback
                                      stakeholders at different levels   members from 6,000        from FSSAPII
                                      prepared and training provided     institutions trained      activities
                                                                                                 · SMC/PTA capacity
                                                                                                   improved modestly
                                                                                                   through systematic
                                                                                                   training
  D. Staff Development
                                      61 domestic training courses and 8 in-country training     · Despite high turnover,
                                      overseas training courses held     provided to 1391          international training
                                                                         officials                 were linked to specific
                                                                         overseas training         project activities,
                                                                         provided to 25 officials  contributing to policy
                                                                                                   reforms such as MTRT,
                                                                                                   incentives, targeting
                                                                                                   and capacity-building
Source: DSHE, FSSAPII and BANBEIS.




                                                              - 20 -

                           Table 2B: Project progress by outcome indicators v/s Revised Targets
             (Status of Project Development Objective as measured by the following Outcome Indicators)
     PDO Indicator                                  Baseline                     Progress to Date                                  End of Project
                                                                                                                                   Target (Revised)
                                           Number/Text               Date                 Number/Text                     Date        Number/Text
     1. Increase in % of girls        Girls                          2001         Girls                                  2006      43%
        and boys taking and           Awardees: 38.5%                             Awardees: 62.6%
        passing the SSC               Non-awardees:                               Non-awardees: 54.5%                              Note: No of
        examinations                  36.5%                                                                                        students
                                      Boys: 39.4%                                 Boys: 63.5 %                                     appearing in 2008
                                                                                                                                   SSC showed a
                                                                                                                                   slight decrease
                                                                                                                                   over 2001 figures
                                                                                                                                   (see Table 2C)
     2. No. of awards for best        No awards existed.             2001         62,360 awards                          2006      55,960 awards
        performing girls in
        Grades 8 and 9
     3. No. of awards for girls       No awards existed.             2001         60,711 awards                          2006      55,960 awards
        who made the most
        improvement in
        learning achievement
     4. Increase in girls'            Girls: 1,090,455               2001         Girls: 1,176,614                       2006      1,200,000
        enrollment                    Boys: 885,497                               Boys: 923,838                                    (shortfall
                                                                                                                                   explained in
                                                                                                                                   Section 3.2)
                                                                                                                                   -
     5. Girls' enrollment as a        56%                            2001         56%                                    2006      56%
        percentage total
        enrollment in project
        upazilas
     6. No. of girls receiving        939,020                        2001         753,095 (including PPST)               2006      950,000-
        stipends                                                                                                                   1,000,000
                                                                                                                                   (shortfall
                                                                                                                                   explained in
                                                                                                                                   Section 3.2)
     7. No. of disadvantaged          2,400 girl-years                            760 girls                              2006      800 girls
        girls supported by the
        Family Attractiveness
        and New School
        Programs
     8. Increased capacity to         No unit under DSHE            2001          PMU established to carry               2006      PMU established
        plan, coordinate,             to oversee stipend                          out this function;
        manage, monitor and           programs                                    MoE/DSHE upgraded this
        evaluated stipend                                                         Unit as a full-fledged
        programs3                                                                 Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                                                  Wing within DSHE
                                                                                  Integrated Database
                                                                                  developed

Source: DSHE, FSSAPII and BANBEIS.




3
 Originally this indicator was included in Key Project Indicators table, but this was not included in the short list of indicators.


                                                                              - 21 -

                                                                  Table 2c: Project progress by indicators
                                                       FEMALE SECONDARY SCHOOL ASSISTANCE PROJECT: PHASE II
                                                                Quantitative Achievements (as of August 20, 2008)

                                                          Target      2001       2002          2003      2004       2005      2006      2007      2008  Total

 1 No of Institutes                                                   5,556      5,853         6,110     6,384      6,528     6,666     6,666    6,666   6,666
                                Gov.                                     35         36            39        45         49        49        49        49     49
                                N-Gov                                 3,746      3,913         4,058     4,188      4,284     4,366    4,366     4,366   4,366
                                M                                     1,775      1,904         2,013     2,151      2,195     2,251    2,251     2,251   2,251
   No. of girls' appeared in
 2 SSC                                                               90,927    106,219       102,171    90,688     90,010    77,836    77,671   86,319
 3 No. of girls' passed in SSC                                       34,406     40,737        32,002    39,615     42,112    42,036    43,830   51,223
   No. of boys' appeared in
 4 SSC                                                              124,551    138,275       130,348   110,197    104,535   102,699   109,543  122,306
 5 No. of boys' passed in SSC          Upazilas                      49,018     58,880        47,382    54,740     54,669    63,896    66,843   77,623
 6 SSC pass rate (Girls)                                      43         38         38            31        44         47        54        56      59.3
 7 SSC pass rate (Boys)                                                  39         43            36        50         52        62        61      63.5
 8 Net enrollment                              FSSAP-II

 9 Transition rate class 5 to 6
10 Transition rate class 8 to 9                                          95         97            86        89         79        72        95
11 Total Enrolment              Girls                             1,150,455  1,222,205     1,226,838 1,090,274  1,094,050 1,056,749 1,206,610 1,176,614
                                Boys                                885,497    900,594       869,885   834,136    839,699   832,146   905,872  923,838
12 Total in ACF(Jan-Jun)        Girls                             1,054,385  1,131,218     1,154,141   868,294    949,052   854,415   858,621  838,015
13 Total in ACF(Jul-Dec)        Girls                             1,054,385  1,068,064       899,268   739,716    658,507   777,252   858,621 NR
14 Received(Jan-Jun)            Girls                               954,812  1,029,984     1,005,080   725,459    723,656   796,510   852,920 723,980
15 Received(Jul-Dec)            Girls                               939,020    982,714       666,651   661,986    600,553   694,000   852,920       NR
16 FAP                          Schools                                                                     41         41        41                  41     41
                                Girls                                                                       53        517       760       690
17 NSP                          Schools                       26                                                       25        25        25        25     25
                                Girls                       1500                                                      533     1,134     1,882
   Pro-poor targeting (Jan-
18 Jun)                         Schools                                                                                         213       424              424
                                Girls-T                                                                                      65,308    91,813           91,813
                                Girls-A                                                                                      14,425    27,868           27,868
                                Boys                                                                                          5,829    10,425           10,425
19 Pro-poor targeting(Jul-      Schools                                                                               161       404       424              424

                                                                                      - 22 -

                                                    Target           2001   2002       2003     2004    2005    2006    2007    2008  Total
   Dec)

                                  Girls-T                                                              39,629  81,399  78,101         81,399
                                  Girls-A                                                              11,624  23,147  26,053         23,147
                                  Boys                                                                  3,715   9,258   9,664          9,258
20 Teacher/stakeholder trng.      Head teacher         7000                            2,171    1,500   1,286     720     948          6,625
                                  Asst. Head
                                  teacher              5000                                               968   2,914                  3,882
                                  IST                 26000                                     4,891   6,852   9,795   1,946         23,484
                                  Stake               19000                                                                           19,000
21 MTRT                           Schools              1077                                                32     520     525          1,077
                                  Teams                  40                                                 4      20      40
                                  Members               160                                                16      80     160
22 Student Fellowships            HSC                    54                                                54                             54
                                  BA-BEd                   7                                                7                              7
                                  BEd                    64                                5               59                             64
23 School awards                  Excell                860                               12      212     212     210                    646
                                  SIP                   424                               28      119      64     204                    415
                                  SSC                                                                     916   1,527   1,172          3,615
24 Student awards                 Best                55961                            7,826   10,135  10,797  11,341  10,917  11,344 62,360
                                  Improved            55961                            7,847    9,955  10,638  11,259  10,875  10,137 60,711
25 School facilities              Latrines             2000                              402      460     543     637                  2,042
                                  S-tube-wells         1000                              219      200     245     313                    977
                                  D-tube-wells         1000                              183      260     298     324                  1,065
26 M-A training                   Schools              6000                                                     6,000                  6,000
                                  SMC                 66000                                                    66,000                 66,000
                                  PTA                 60000                                                    60,000                 60,000
27 Staff trained                  I-county             2647                              122      362     763     220                  1,467
                                  International                                                    11              10       5             26
  Girls-T=Girls receiving Tuition; Girls-A=Girls receiving Incentives
  Source: DSHE, FSSAPII and BANBEIS.




                                                                                - 23 -

Table 2d: Planned and Actual Schedule for the Disbursement of Stipends and Tuition for 2001-2008



                                     Planned Disbursement                Timing of Actual Disbursement               Total Delays
               Installment             Schedule as per PP
  Year                              Start         End        Total                         End           Total        to        to
                                                             days         Start                           days      Start      End
  2001         July-Dec.         19 Oct         30 Nov       43        n.a.           n.a.                     -          -       -
  2002         Jan.-June         8 May          19 Jun       43        12-Aug-02 30-Sep-02                   50         96      104
               July-Dec.         19 Oct         30 Nov       43        20-Jan-02      28-Feb-03              40         94       91
  2003         Jan.-June         8 May          19 Jun       43        10-Jul-03      5-Aug-03               27         62       48
               July-Dec.         19 Oct         30 Nov       43        19-Jan-04      15-Feb-04              28         91       77
  2004         Jan.-June         8 May          19 Jun       43        10-Jul-04      30-Sep-04              80         62      100
               July-Dec.         19 Oct         30 Nov       43        13-Jan-05      28-Feb-05              48         77       90
  2005         Jan.-June         26 May         14 Jun       20        24-May-05 24-Jun-05                   30          -2      10
               July-Dec.         19 Oct         30 Nov       43        5 June         30-Dec-05              35         36       30
  2006         Jan.-June         1 May          15 June      45        12 Dec         10 July                35         35       25
               July-Dec.         19 Oct         30 Nov       43        14 June        10 Jan                 29         53       40
  2007*        Jan.-June         20 April       31 May       42        20 Oct         25 Nov                 36       180       145
               July-Dec.         20 April       31 May       42        20 Oct         25 Nov                 36        NR       NR
  2008         Jan.-June         1 May          15 June      45        12 June        30 June                18         42       15

Note: In view of the planned closing date of June 2007, it was decided to disburse Disbursement of stipends and tuition for both
semesters at one time

Source: DSHE, FSSAPII and BANBEIS.




                                                                - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis



Efficiency

The following section provides further details on the calculation of efficiency gains.

Training activities: The estimated total budget saving in training activities was Tk117.8 million (appraisal
estimate: Tk406.6 million versus actual costs of Tk288.8 million ­ see Table 1 below). A huge saving was
made under MTRT activities as the Project adopted a cost-effective alternative with mobile team with
intermittent use of resource persons rather than establishing a fixed resource centre deploying permanent
experts. Similarly, all training activities utilized existing venues and resource persons of different training
institutions, which helped develop training capacity at the field level, as well as utilize the unused capacity.

                                              Table 1: Training activities
                                                                    Taka million
                              Training activities        Target     Actual     Diff
                              HT training                    46.0        47.3      -1.2
                              AHT training                   46.7        22.7      24.0
                              In-service training           182.2       162.9      19.2
                              MTRT activities               109.3        36.1      73.2
                              Stakeholder training           22.4        19.8       2.7
                                                            406.6       288.8    117.8



Improved school facilities: Achievement exceeded targets for installing twin latrines and tube-wells with the
saving of Tk18.2 million (appraisal estimate: Tk116.1 million versus actual costs of Tk97.9 million).

Stipends and tuition: Both stipends and tuition were disbursed efficiently by minimizing delays and ensuring
minimal of leakages. A number of strategies were undertaken, which include: (i) adoption of additional
simplified and enhanced criteria (new entry limited to Grade 6 and Grade 9, requirement of registration of
respective Boards for Grade 10, and application of 45% mark criteria based on half-yearly and annual exams);
(ii) strict enforcement of eligibility criteria (75% attendance, 45% marks, and staying unmarried); (iii) use of
agreed steps with timeline to ensure disbursement of stipends and tuition in April/May and October/November
each year, and (iv) regular audit of stipends and tuition from independent agency. This program was extended
for three semesters not because of delays or inefficiencies but because of the decision to ensure continuity of
stipends program under the follow-on project. As a result of these efficiency measures, the number of eligible
girls declined substantially, which led to the saving of Tk729.7 million (appraisal estimate: Tk4,884.7 million
versus actual costs of Tk4,155 million). Although this affected total enrollment, the education quality
indicators (number of students appearing in SSC examinations and SSC pass rate) improved because of strict
monitoring activities.

Sustainability

Financial Sustainability: Financial sustainability of the interventions initiated and implemented under the
FSSAPII is ensured as the GoB has initiated Secondary Education Quality and Access Enhancement Project
(SEQAEP) with IDA support as follow up of FSSAP-II. FSSAP-II piloted a Pro-poor Self-targeting scheme
of stipend program for both boys and girls in pursuance of a decision of the Mid-term Review Mission in
2004. Based on the piloting experience, SEQAEP has continued the new scheme in all 121 upazilas and other
                                                         - 25 -

DSHE is considering adopting the targeting strategy nationwide. SEQAEP plans to (i) devise a systematic
method of selecting poor students; (ii) create adequate awareness among communities; and (iii)) conduct
appropriate evaluation to assess impact.

FSSAP-II contributed to sustain the momentum gained in expanding the girls' enrollment at the secondary
level. The Government commitment to stipends program which is a significant element of sustainability, is
evident in its expansion of the female stipend program throughout the country, and its allocation of additional
financial resources for SEQAEP. The Government is convinced of the rationale for its longer term support to
secondary education for girls and poor boys. The commitment of the Government to girls' education is further
evidenced in its decision to extend female stipend program of Grades 11 and 12. The fact that the Government
is investing so much of its resources in education of girls and poor boys speaks of its ownership of the country-
wide program.

Community Involvement: FSSAP-II supported to promote community involvement through (i) capacity
building of SMC/PTA, (ii) provision of community participation in tube-well installation and toilet
construction, and (iii) involvement of community in new school program, family attractiveness program and
pro-poor targeting pilot. The implementation of the Management and Accountability sub-component under
FSSAP-II contributed to enhance community participation through training of school level stakeholders and
increasing their awareness regarding their roles and responsibilities, including accountability.

FSSAP-II Liability: FSSAP-II financed salary of (i) USEO staff (826 posts), (ii) project operation unit (POU)
staff, and (iii) program management unit (PMU) staff, and operating costs of POU, PMU and 121 USEOs.
The Ministry of Establishment recommended transferring (i) 6 posts (except sweeper) out of 7 posts of USEO;
and (ii) 58 staff working in the POU and PMU to the revenue budget. The project liability to the revenue
budget is negligible.




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

Names                      Title                                      Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Ana Maria Jeria            Senior Human Resource Specialist           SASHD TTL
Irajen Appasamy            Operations Analyst                         SASHD Mission member
Sumaiya Andaleeb           Research Analyst                           SASHD "
Habibur Rahman             Education Specialist                       SASHD "
M. Chloe O'Gara            Girls' Education Specialist (Consultant)   SASHD "
William Darnel             Management and Implementation Specialist   SASHD "
Shiva Raj Lohani           Economist (Consultant)                     SASHD "
Carolyn Winter             Sr. Education Specialist                   HDNED
Zafrul Islam               Sr. Procurement Specialist                 SARPS
Suraiya Zannath            Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Shirley Miske              Consultant (Education Specialist)          SASHD
Md. Mokhlesur Rahman       Consultant                                 SASHD Proc/Fin
Paul Martin                Senior Environment Specialist              SASES
Khawja Minnatullah         Sr. Water and Sanitation Specialist        SASES
Fatema Rosalynn Khan       Research Assistant                         SASHD
Burhanuddin Ahmad          Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Dr. M. Khaliquzzaman       Consultant                                 SASES
Sofia Shakil               Consultant                                 SASHD Monitoring & Evaluation
Supervision
Amit Dar                   Sr. Education Economist                    SASHD TTL
Irajen Appasamy            Sr. Operations Officer                     SASHD TTL
Nazmul Chaudhury           Sr. Economist                              SASHD
Zafrul Islam               Lead Procurement Specialist                SARPS
Tanvir Hossain             Procurement Analyst                        SARPS
Harvinder Suri             Procurement Specialist (Consultant)        SARPS
Suraiya Zannath            Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Burhanuddin Ahmad          Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Mahmudul Alam              Sr. Education Economist                    SASHD
Yidan Wang                 Sr. Education Specialist                   WBIHD
Fatema Rosalynn Khan       Research Assistant                         SASHD
Shiva Raj Lohani           Economist (Consultant)                     SASHD
Nilufar Ahmed              Sr. Social Scientist                       SASDI
Dr. M. Khaliquzzaman       Consultant                                 SASDI Environment
Hon Chan Chai              Consultant                                 SASHD M&E
ICR
Sofia Shakil               Senior Education Specialist                SASHD TTL
Irajen Appasamy            Sr. Operations Officer                     SASHD
Burhanuddin Ahmad          Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Tanvir Hossain             Procurement Analyst                        SARPS
Shiva Raj Lohani           Economist (Consultant)                     SASHD



                                               - 27 -

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                  No. of staff weeks        USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                23.53
  FY99                                                                21.38
  FY00                                   8                            17.19
  FY01                                 37                            186.98
  FY02                                 37                             97.21
  FY03                                                                 4.46
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:       82                            350.75
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                 0.00
  FY99                                                                 0.00
  FY00                                                                 0.00
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                   4                            18.55
  FY03                                 19                             77.03
  FY04                                 20                             78.91
  FY05                                 37                            161.46
  FY06                                 43                            155.11
  FY07                                 31                            106.25
  FY08                                 38                            152.14
  FY09                                   9                            49.2
                          Total:      201                            798.65




                                    - 28 -

Annex 5. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


         During the ICR mission in August 2008, a one-day stakeholder workshop was organized at the Kushura
Abbas High School in Dhamrai Upazila. The attendees at the workshop included 50 persons, including Project
Operations Unit officials, Upazila Secondary Education Officer, Assistant Secondary Education Officer, school
principals, teachers, students, members of SMCs, and parents.

         The objectives of the workshop were to: (a) seek stakeholders' opinion regarding overall project
implementation, including quality interventions, stipends distribution as well as the outreach programs, SMC
training, and other aspects of upazila-level project activities; (b) identify key implementation issues and challenges at
the field level; and (c) obtain feedback from school level stakeholders, including teaching staff, head teacher,
parents/guardians, and students. The following paragraphs summarize the overall findings of the workshop, and
highlight sustainability and institutional capacity issues.

Access. In general, parents were found to be aware of importance of girls' education and stipends and tuition
program. The majority of parents had strong views and insights about factors that help or hinder their
children's participation in school ­ including why there are high levels of drop out between Grades 7 and 8,
and also at Grade 9 level; about what motivates them to keep their children in school, etc.

Quality. While there are improvements in the SSC results over time, quality remains by far the most
important agenda for the future. Schools started to provide additional support to Grade 10 students through
extra classes during vacation to improve their performance in SSC. Teachers need more support to improve
their teaching practices through on-site support, and further improvement in their subject knowledge and
pedagogy. From all stakeholders (including students), there were strong messages regarding the need to
improve Mathematics and English teaching/learning. Head teachers and assistant head teachers require more
training not only in management and administration, but also in pedagogy to enable them to provide adequate
guidance to all teachers. The classroom learning environment needs improvement, including more teaching
and learning material.

Participation and Accountability. Stakeholders agreed that, with greater participation, and strengthened
capacity, teachers and the school will become more accountable to the parents. While there is a potential for
parents (the better off ones) to contribute more towards school improvement, greater active and meaningful
participation of parents in the management of school affairs is needed. In order for this to happen the majority
of stakeholders pointed to the need to reform SMC/PTA in terms of composition and roles and responsibilities.
Some good ideas that came out, for example, included the need to engage local private sector (factory owners)
in school affairs and mobilize resources for the education of poor girls and boys. Options for facilitating the
provision of quality education to children include: (i) allowing the older age children (Grades 8, 9, 10) to
work part time; (ii) providing stipends and tuition to both poorest girls and boys; (iii) adopting flexible school
hours; and (iv) sponsoring teachers or providing learning materials for better quality.

Upazila Capacity to Support Secondary Education. USEOs informed that they have maintained a record of
all key implementation activities and achievements. While computer and other hardware equipment has been
provided to USEOs, further capacity-building that focuses on use of the appropriate software to maintain all
data is needed. To enhance effective supervision of educational institutions, USEOs stated that they would
require: (i) mobility support, in particular for female USEOs; (ii) operating costs for fuel depending on
remoteness of educational institutions; (iii) clear checklist of activities to be performed during supervision; and
(iv) training. Stakeholders emphasized the need to enhanced USEO positions by making them full-fledged
secondary education officers rather than limiting to the existing role of project staff.

                                                       - 29 -

Annex 6. Borrower's Assessment

1. DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

1.1 Introduction

Learning from earlier initiatives, the Government of Bangladesh (GoB), with support from IDA, launched the
Female Secondary School Assistance Project (FSSAP) in 118 upazilas in 1993. The introduction of this
program created nation-wide enthusiasm for girls' education, which inspired GoB to undertake a nation-wide
Female Stipend Program (FSP) with the same aims, objectives and implementation strategies as FSSAP.
Under this program, three more stipend projects, namely GoB-financed Female Secondary Stipend Project
(FSSP), ADB-assisted Secondary Development Project (SEDP) including the NORAD-assisted Female
Secondary Education Stipend Project (FESP) were undertaken. In view of the tremendous success of FSSAP
and the need for accelerating the pace of progress achieved by its programs, Government of Bangladesh with
IDA assistance decided to initiate FSSAPII as a follow-on project of FSSAP.

1.2 Objectives of the Project:

The objectives of the project are to improve the quality of, and girls' access to, secondary education in the
rural areas of Bangladesh. The project also aims to improve the management capacity of the Directorate of
Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) and Ministry of Education; and monitoring and accountability
mechanism at the community level. The specific objectives of FSSAP-II are to:

     (a) increase secondary school enrolment of girls through continuing financial assistance;
     (b) organize teacher education and training for qualitative improvement in secondary education;
     (c) create intensive mass awareness about girls education and acquire social acceptance for it;
     (d) provide special facilities for girls education in the inaccessible and disadvantaged areas;
     (e) make the environment of the institutions safe, healthy and attractive for girls by providing water
          supply and sanitation facilities through increased community participation;
     (f) enhance the efficiency of project manpower through provision of training for the smooth
          implementation of the various programs of the project;
     (g) develop effective management system for secondary education at the upazila level;
     (h) Above all, to help empowerment of women.

1.3 Components of the Project:
The Project has three major components with ten sub-components as given below:
Components                                                     Sub-components
1. Improving the quality of secondary education                1.1 Teacher Education. Training and Support
                                                               1.2 Incentive Awards for School Performance
                                                               1.3 Incentive Awards for Student Achievement
                                                               1.4 Improved School Facilities
2. Increasing Access and Retention of Girls                    2.1 Stipends and Tuition
                                                               2.2 Outreach Program
3. Strengthening Management , Accountability and               3.1 DSHE Program Management
   Monitoring                                                  3.2 DSHE Project Operations
                                                               3.3 School Management and Accountability
                                                               3.4 Staff Development
2. PROGRESS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMPONENTS:
A. IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF SECONDARY EDUCATION:


                                                         - 30 -

a) Teacher Education, Training and Support:
a.1 Fellowship Support for FSSAP-II Graduates:
Achievement against target: 100%.
A Selection Committee was constituted to select deserving FSSAP graduate girls for the fellowship. The
Committee selected 65 fellows for admission in different programs of the fellowship in the first year of the
Project. But the fellows selected for C-in-Ed program could not get admission in the PTIs, since PTIs provide
in-service C-in-Ed. training only for primary school teachers.      In view of this, these fellowships were
converted to other types of fellowships during the Mid Term Review. Even these could not be implemented
since the BA/BEd course duration of three years would have extended beyond the closing date of the Project.
Therefore, the new target was set at 125 in two categories in the revised PP. The Project authority could
provide all the 125 fellowships to FSSAP graduates.

a.2 In-service Teacher Training
Achievement against target: 87.62%.
As per provision of PP one international consultant and one national consultant were hired to design the
subject specific training program. They developed subject-wise training manuals for all the 4 subjects, namely
Bangla, English, Mathematics and Science, in addition to one on pedagogy. The in-service training of subject
teachers was organized in 17 venues all over Bangladesh. The venues included 11 TTCs, 5HTTIs and BMTTI.
23,484 Assistant Teachers were trained against the target of 26,800 during the Project period..

a.3 Head Teacher (HT) Training:
Achievement against target: 94.6%.
The international and national consultants who worked for designing the subject-specific training of assistant
teachers also developed and finalized the Training Manual for the Head Teachers training. 5,678 Head
Teachers were trained against the target of 6,000 during the Project period. All the project schools were
covered, but due to the vacancy of Head Teacher post in many schools, the target could not be achieved.

a.4 Assistant Head Teacher Training
Achievement against target: 65.24.
The training manual designed for training the Head Teachers were also used for training the Assistant Head
Teachers. So far 3,882 Assistant Head Teachers have been trained against the target of 5,950. The target could
not be achieved due to non-availability of Assistant Head Teachers, since in many schools this post remained
vacant. Further, Junior High Schools do not have this post.

a. 5 Mobile Training Resource Team (MTRT)
Achievement against target: 144.0%.
One international consultant (for 2 person months) and one national consultant (for 2 person months) were
hired to design and develop the new MTRT concept for its introduction in Bangladesh. The consultants
working during the period from 17 May to 30 July 2004 developed a concept paper modifying the concept of
MTRT into Mobile Training Resource Center (MTRC). The introduction of this MTRC concept and
postponement of international training visit on MTRT have delayed the implementation of MTRT pilot
training.

The IDA Supervision Mission (29 January-9 February, 2004) reviewed the concept paper on MTRC and
identified it as a deviation from the original concept of MTRT. The Mission recommended that the Project
authority should: i) adhere to the MTRT concept as originally designed and ii) organize international training
visits for MTRT master trainers, expert teachers, and those who provide systemic support for such programs,
as soon as possible. An international consultant was hired for conducting the International Visit on MTRT to
China and Japan. He worked during the period from 12 May to 20 July 2003. An 11 member team of
concerned officials, educators-masters teacher trainers visited China and Nepal during 15-30 June 2004.Based

                                                     - 31 -

on the visit, a draft MTRT training design and implementation plan was prepared and submitted to the World
Bank. The draft training and implementation plan was thoroughly discussed during Mid Term Review. On the
basis of discussion, MTRT piloting concept was finalized. Phase-1 piloting was completed by 12 MTRT
members in September2005 covering 32 institutions. Based on the Phase-1 experience MTRT concept,
implementing procedure and Operational Manual was revised. A selection committee was formed to select
MTRT members through open competition. Sixty four MTRT members in16 teams visited 320 institutions and
160 members in 40 teams visited 757 institutions and trained the teachers on the spot. Thus the total
institutions visited stood at 1,077. The achievement was spectacular.

a.6 Stakeholder Training:
Achievement against target: 91.8%.
As per the revised schedule of consultancy services under the Project an international consultant (for 1 person
month) and a national consultant (for 18 person months) were hired to design the training packages for
stakeholder training. The POU selected 363 resource persons from different areas as potential trainers who
conducted the stakeholder training in their respective areas. 19,000 stakeholders have so far been trained
against the target of 20,695.

b. Incentive Award for School Performance
b.1 Excellence Award:
Achievement against target: 75.11%.
The project authority could provide Excellence Award to 646 institutions during the project period against the
target of 860. Due to delayed start of the program for procedural delay, the target could not be achieved.

b.2 School Improvement Plan (SIP):
Achievement against target: 97.87%.
An international consultant was appointed, but he did not join. But a national consultant who worked during
the period from 1 June 2003 to 30 May 2004 designed the School Improvement Plan. So far 415 institutions
have been awarded the SIP grant against the target of 424.

b.3 SSC Incentive Award
Achievement against target: NA.
3615 institutions have been provided with SSC Incentive Award based on the SSC Examination results of
2005, 2006 and 2007. This incentive award was given to encourage schools and teachers to increase the SSC
pass rate through the provision of additional support to students.

c. Incentive Award for Student Achievement
Achievement against target: 110.0%.
A total number of 123,568 girls(62,011 best performing 61,557 most improved) from Class VIII and Class X
were given the Incentive Award during the project period against the target of 111763.

d. Improved School Facilities for Girls:
Achievement against target: 101.95% (tube-well) and 102.1 (twin latrine installation);
The Project Management Unit (PMU) of FSSAP-II evaluated the effectiveness of the Water and Sanitation
System (WSS) of the FSSAP institutions from time to time. The PMU officials regularly inspected the tube-
wells and latrines, and submitted report to the Project Director. A total number of 2039 tube-wells (1065
shallow tube-wells + 974 deep tube-wells ) have so far been installed in 2039 institutions against the target of
2000, while 2042 twin latrines have been constructed in 2042 institutions against the target of 2000.

As per provision of PP, the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) has so far completed 5 rounds
of arsenic testing of tube-well water at the project institutions to ensure safe drinking water for the teachers

                                                      - 32 -

and students. It has tested around 19542 samples (3451+3637+3636+3763+5065) where arsenic
contaminations found were 18.89%, 13.06%, 12.49%, 1.64%, 4.43% in five rounds respectively.

B INCREASING ACCESS AND RETENTION OF GIRLS

a. Stipends and Tuition:
Getting the girls student enrolled and timely disbursement of stipends money among them had always been a
challenging task since the inception of FSSAP. Disbursement of stipend money on time could never be
achieved. In order to overcome this problem, implementation procedure of stipends and tuition sub-component
was re-designed.

i) Additional Eligibility Criteria for Stipends:
With a view to eliminating ineligible girls three additional criteria was set forth for both institutions and girls.
These additional criteria were introduced from the academic year 2003. The three additional eligibility
conditions for FSSAP-II stipends were as follows:
         a) new entry is limited to class VI and class IX only;
         b) girls studying in class X must have registration at BISE and BMEB ; and
         c) the 45% marks criterion would be applicable to half yearly examination also.

ii) Number of Project Institutions:
Every year a small number of educational institutions sign Cooperation Agreement with FSSAP-II resulting in
the increase of educational institutions under the Project. The year-wise number of FSSAP institutions (old and
new) for the period from 2001 to 2008 is shown in Table 1. The number of FSSAP-II institutions was 5558 in
2001 which rose to 6666 in 2006 and remained so in 2008.

Table 1: Number of Institutions (Year-wise):
  Year                                                               2006       2007     2008
                 2001   2002      2003        2004         2005
      Old        5258   5556      5853        6110         6383      6528       6666     6666
      New        300     297       257         274          145       138        0         0

      Total      5558   5853      6110        6384         6528      6666       6666     6666


iii) Enrolment of Boys and Girls in the Project Institutions
The enrolment of boys and girls in the Project institutions is shown in Table 2. The enrolment of girls
increased gradually from 2001 to 2003, decreased up to 2005 and then started to increase again.

Table 2: Enrolment of Boys and Girls in Project Institutions (2001-2007)
Grade         2002              2003                  2004             2005             2006             2007
         Boys     Girls    Boys      Girls      Boys      Girls    Boys    Girls   Boys     Girls   Boys    Girls

     6 235855   303821   226350   311921      217756     276040   224519 289985   224800   282645  206878  265492
     7 200484   279508   197938   267081      184744     247291   184633 235367   187100   241915  214114  275340
     8 170912   245073   169650   243816      164175     213007   160494 210661   157726   192774  186151  229101
     9 150793   220338   145214   224181      144573     198534   147685 198227   143065   189233  143013  216508
   10  136550   173465   130773   179839      122888     155402   122368 159810   119455   150182  155716  220169
Total  894594   1222205  869925   1226838     834136     1090274  839699 1094050  832146   1056749 905872  1206610


iv) Number of Stipend Recipient Girls:
Since the introduction of Female Stipend Program in Bangladesh in1994, the number of stipend recipient girls
increased tremendously in the secondary schools, reached the peak in 2002 and then decreased enormously
from 2003 and started to increase again in2006. This is evident from Table 3 and Table 4.



                                                          - 33 -

It was revealed from the World Bank Supervision Mission Reports as well as internal and independent external
monitoring reports that every year a huge number of ineligible girls were given stipends by inflating their
attendance and marks by the head teachers. But due to the intensification and tightening of monitoring and
supervision of the institutions as well as time-to-time warning against the malpractices being committed by the
school teachers in falsifying the girls' attendance and performance data, the trend of malpractice has decreased
significantly. It is interesting that the number of stipend recipient girls decreased by 47.41% in 2003 from
2002.

Table 3: Number and Rate of Increment of Girls Receiving Stipends by Semester (2001-2008)
Academic          January ­June Semester          July-December Semester
Year
                        ACF        Stipend               ACF        Stipend      Increase in     % of
                                  Awardees                         Awardees      Stipend         Increment
                                                                                 Recipients
2001              1.054,385       954,812         1,054,385        939,020
2002              1,131.218       1,029,984       1,068,064        982,714       43694           4.44%
2003              1,154,187       1,005,059          899,268       666,651       -316063         -47.41%
2004                868,294         732,785          831,016       661,986       -4665           -0.70%
2005                949,052         723,656          658,512       600,553       -61433          -10.23%
2006                854,415         796,510          777,252       694,000       93447           13.46%
2007                856,621         672,525          858,621       672,525       -21475          -3.19%
2008                852,920

v) Disbursement of Stipends and Tuition:
The POU so far completed the disbursement of stipends to girls and tuition to the institutions against the
stipend recipient girls for 13 semesters since the beginning of the Project from 1 July 2001.The disbursement
of stipend and tuition for the last semester (January-June 2008) of the Project has begun already.
Disbursements were always delayed for every Semester, however, the performance of Agrani Bank in
disbursing the stipend and tuition money has improved significantly over the last several years.

vi) Performance of Boys Stipend, Girls and Non-stipend Girls in the SSC Examination.

It is seen from Table 5 that the number of students appearing at the SSC Examination declined in FSSAP-II
schools over the years from 2002 to 2006 with an increasing trend in 2007. Yet the achievement of the
students in the SSC Examination is gradually improving. For example, the pass rate of stipend girls increased
from 38.52 % in 2001 to 60.07% in 2007. Also the average pass rates of boys of FSSAP-II schools (61.02%)
and stipend girls (60.07%) in 2007 were slightly higher than the national average ( 61% for boys and 55% for
girls). The pass rate of non-stipend girls was also lower than that of the stipend girls in 2006 and 2007
significantly.

It is also seen that boys performed better than girls in the SSC Examination in all the years under report.
                  Table 5: Year-wise SSC Pass Rates of Boys, Stipend Girls and Non-stipend Girls
  Year                   Boys                            Awardees                      Non-awardees
             Appear       Pass        %       Appear       Pass        %        Appear     Pass        %
  2001       124551      49018      39.36      60316       23231     38.52      30611      11175      36.51
  2002       138275      58880      42.58      61694       25566     41.44      39479      15171      38.43
  2003       130348      47382      36.35      61694       19231     31.17      40477      12771      31.55
  2004       110197      54740      49.67      51050       21641     42.39      39638      17974      45.35
  2005       104535      54669      52.30      51532       23494     45.59      38478      18618      48.39
  2006       102699      63896      62.22      45923       26718     58.18      31913      15316      48.00
  2007       109543      66843      61.02      46421       27886     60.07      31250      15944      51.02
  2008

                                                       - 34 -

vii) Achievement:
Achievement against target: 109%.
During the period from January 2001 to June 2008, 6.9 million girl-years of education in grades 6-10 have
been supported. .

b. Outreach:
Family Attractiveness Program (FAP):
Achievement against target: 95.0%.
Upazila level committees were formed to select girls under FAP program. Under this program, 760 girls of
disadvantaged areas against the target of 800 girls have received additional money to continue their study.

New School Program (NSP):
Achievement against target: 96.15%.
Under this program 25 Junior Secondary High Schools have been established against the target of 26 in remote
and educationally disadvantaged areas. Of these schools, 11 have already been approved by the Government
and the rest schools are now under process of approval.

b.3 Pro-poor Self-targeting Scheme:
Achievement against target: NA
So far 504,126 girls and boys (463,924 poor and meritorious girls +40,192 poor boys) have received stipend at
enhanced rate since 2005 under the Pro-poor Self-targeting of Scheme of Stipend Program.

C. STRENGTHENING MANAGEMENT, ACCOUNTABILITY AND MONITORING
a.DSHE Program Management:
The Program Monitoring Unit (PMU) was established by FSSAP-II in the Planning and Development Wing of
DSHE, with a total of 9 personnel headed by a Deputy Director. The PMU has, in the meantime, carried out a
number of activities including revision of Stipend Operation Manual, preparation of a monitoring format for
all the 5 female stipend projects, preparation and publication of a database on all the female stipend projects
and a number of studies.

b. DSHE Project Operations
A Project Operation Unit (POU) was established to implement the Project. All the operational units of POU
are carrying out their assigned activities.

c. School Management and Accountability:
Achievement against target: 96.0%.
An international consultant ( for 3 person months ) and a national consultant ( for 36 person months) were
employed who designed, developed and facilitated the training program.. 6005 orientation and training
programs for DEOs, SMC chairmen/members, head teachers, and parents on school management and
accountability were organized at the national, divisional and school levels. An evaluation study of the program
was conducted by the consultant during March-April 2008.

d. Staff Development:
A national consultant was deployed on 21 April 2003 for 2 person months for the design and development of
domestic as well as overseas training program. He submitted the Report at the end of his assignment. A Staff
Development Plan was prepared on the basis of needs, which was approved by the World Bank. So far, 1391
trainees participated in 14 different training courses in the country; while 25 officials participated in 3
international study visits during the implementation period of the Project.

2.1 Item-wise Expenditure of the Project:

                                                     - 35 -

Achievement against target: 92.8%.
Out of a total budget of Tk. 76,626.80, a total Tk. 71,097.50 was spent with an unspent amount Tk. 5,529.30.

2.2 Summary of Achievements against Targets:
The achievements against targets of each component/sub-component have been provided to the Bank and are
included in the Bank's report.

3. LESSONS LEARNED
a) Project Design
One of the main lessons learned from the implementation of Female Secondary School Assistance Project
(FSSAP) (1994-2001) was that the Project was a total success in increasing the enrolment of girls in the
secondary level (Grades 6-10) tremendously. This is evidenced by the fact the enrolment of girls in the
secondary level increased from 30% in 1994 to 54% in 2000. But the quality of education at the secondary
level had not been increased to the desired extent till then. Since qualified trained teachers have positive
correlation with teaching quality and hence student performance, the Female Secondary School Assistance
Project: Phase II (FSSAP-II) kept provision for the in-service training of Head Teachers and Assistant Head
Teachers on school management and accountability and Assistant Teachers on four subjects, namely Bangla,
English , Mathematics and Science. The implementation of FSSAP-II reveals that the teacher training program
has increased the teaching quality of the teachers and hence the learning achievement of the students.

Furthermore, the provision of safe drinking water and toilet facilities to schools under FSSAP-II has
contributed significantly to improving the school environment and hence students enrolment, particularly girl
students.

Likewise, the "Strengthening Management, Accountability and Monitoring "component of FSSAP-II has been
successful in enhancing the `capacity of DSHE in the management, implementation, coordination and
monitoring and evaluation of projects.

b) Project Coordination and Implementation:
The management structure of the Project included (a) an inter-ministerial or National Steering Committee
(NSC), (b) Implementation Monitoring Committee, (c) a Project Management Unit (PMU) under DSHE, (d) a
Project Operations Unit (POU) under DSHE, (e) Upazila Secondary Education Office (USEO) and Upazila
Advisory Committee (UAC) for girls' education. Within DSHE, project oversight management was the
responsibility of the PMU, while operations were the responsibility of the POU and Upazila Secondary
Education Office.

At the national level, POU was responsible for the implementation of FSSAP-II The inter-ministerial Steering
Committee headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Education, was responsible for facilitating the project
implementation and provides policy and decision-making guidance. The PMU was responsible for overall
coordination among female education projects and related secondary education activities as well as the
maintenance of an integrated MIS database and monitoring and evaluation of FSSAP-II. The POU had three
sections. The Operations Section (OS) was responsible for implementation of the quality, stipend and tuition
and school management and accountability activities. The Finance and Administration Section (FAS) was
responsible for finance, procurement, audit and monitoring and evaluation functions as well as supervision of
disbursement bank. The Data Processing Centre (DPC) was responsible for processing and disseminating of
school and students data and prescribed reports.

The performance of all the functional units of FSSAP-II was satisfactory.



                                                       - 36 -

c) Policy Issues:

i) Enrolment and Quality
The Nation-wide Female Stipend Program (FSP) has been playing an instrumental role in promoting female
education and increasing the enrolment of girls at the secondary level in rural areas of Bangladesh. The
enrolment of girls at the secondary level has increased to the extent that it has now surpassed that of boys. The
spectacular growth of enrolment over the years shows that the objective of the Female Stipend Program to
achieve gender parity in access to secondary education between boys and girls has virtually been achieved. But
the quality of secondary education has not yet been achieved. Increased girls' enrolment rates will not be
sustained in the long term, if the quality is not increased.

One of the main lessons from the implementation of FSSAP-II has been that the impact from interventions
such as teacher/head teacher training and the provision of incentives for quality education will diminish if the
core problems of education quality are not tackled upfront, especially in an environment of low-quality
education. Furthermore, provision of safe drinking water and toilet facilities is likely to reduce the incidence of
disease and increase students' aptitude to learn.

ii) Attendance and Achievement:
The continuing priority of FSSAP-II should be to ensure that girls attend school regularly. Maintaining the
75% minimum attendance is prudent. An accountability mechanism should be established to ensure that
attendance and marks are being reported accurately. The girl-friendly school environment and congenial class
room climate are essential for girls' attendance. Girls' attendance is also linked to teachers' faithful
attendance, since students' attendance is sure to drop if teachers are routinely absent. Attendance of students is
associated with teaching-learning process in the classroom. SMC and PTA play important role in ensuring
girls' attendance. Trained teachers, particularly, female teachers have a positive relationship with girls'
attendance. Attendance has a positive relationship with student achievement.

Since attendance is increasingly important to student achievement and trained teachers are having positive
relationship on both attendance and achievement, investments in professional development and training of
teachers should be increased.

Female trained teachers have positive correlation with girls' attendance and marks; hence more female
teachers should be recruited to attain 30% target as was envisaged in the FSSAP.

iii) Maintaining Gender Balance:
During the last two decades, Bangladesh has been highly successful in expanding girls' access to secondary
education, to the extent that the ratio of girls to boys is currently about 55 percent. Whilst keeping the focus on
girls is always important for various socio-economic reasons, it is equally important to consider the poor boys
in enrolling and completing secondary education, since they are suffering from a sense of deprivation for not
being given any stipend support. In view of this consideration, FSSAP-II is providing stipend to poor boys
under its Pro-poor Self-targeting Scheme. Greater emphasis should also be given to increase the number of
female teachers in secondary education, since research has shown that parents are less likely to send their
daughters to school with only male teachers. In this respect, Government of Bangladesh is implementing a
policy giving priority of female teacher recruitment.

iv) Reaching and Retaining Poor Students in School:
The lesson from implementation of the FSSAP ­I and FSSAP-II and the recent pilot Pro-poor Self-targeting
Scheme on access and retention of poor students in secondary education, revealed that it is necessary to: (a)
devise a systematic method of selecting poor students; (b) create adequate awareness among communities; and
(c) conduct appropriate evaluation to assess impact.

                                                        - 37 -

v) Community Involvement:
Community involvement is essential for quality education and improving service delivery particularly in the
remote and disadvantaged areas and for ensuring of project sustainability. International experience suggests
that communities become actively involved in any program when they have meaningful responsibilities,
control over resources and accountability. These along with good quality education for children, are the
incentives for community participation in the educational programs.

vi) Capacity Building of SMC/PTA:
It is recognized that communities play and important role in the successful implementation of educational
programs in the locality. The implementation of the Management and Accountability sub-component under
FSSAP-II showed that community participation is enhanced if the school level stakeholders are aware of their
roles and responsibilities, including accountability. The capacities of SMCs need to be enhanced to ensure that
they play their roles effectively. This is being addressed through various initiatives under FSSAP-II.-training
of SMC members on roles, responsibilities and mechanisms to ensure quality in schools. Similarly, the role of
PTA has to be strengthened to establish a strong link between teachers and parents for ensuring appropriate
student learning and support.

vii) Student-teacher Ratio (STR)
Smaller classes result in better student achievement, since large class sizes increase teachers' workload and
negatively affect the quality of work. Student-teacher ratios higher than 40:1 are of concern. Therefore, STR
should be kept to the minimum, lower than 40:1.

viii) School Facilities:
Good toilet facilities do have positive impact on female attendance, particularly that of older girls. Good tube
wells have also positive correlation with attendance of girls in schools. Good classrooms are positively
correlated at a significant level with attendance and achievement. SMC and PTA meetings have positive
relationship with girls' attendance and performance. Parental and community involvement improves students'
attendance in schools.

4. SUSTAINABILITY OF STIPEND PROGRAM:
The Government commitment to girls' education, which is a significant element of sustainability, is evident in
its expansion of the female stipend program throughout the country, and its allocation of additional financial
resources for FSSAP-II. The Government is convinced of the rationale for its longer term support to girls'
secondary education. The commitment of the Government to girls' education is further evidenced in its
decision to extend female stipend program of Grades 11 and 12. The fact that the Government is investing so
much of its resources in girls' education speaks of its ownership of the country-wide program.

Under the present system, all eligible girls of secondary schools in the rural areas, irrespective of poor and
rich, receive stipends assistance. Further the amount of stipends money is too small and hence can meet only a
part of the direct cost of schooling. Since the system does not take merit and need into consideration, it does
not attract girls from the poorest families who cannot meet the major cost of schooling.

Therefore, it is time now to think whether or not the stipend and tuition program, which cannot meet the
requirements of the girls of the poorest families, will be continued in its present form after the completion of
most of the stipend projects in June 2008. There is general concern among both the donor community and the
Government officials in Bangladesh as well as a large cross section of the community people, that although the
female stipend program has been very beneficial to female education, it is not affordable and sustainable in its
present form for the longer term, particularly when there will be no donor assistance. As the number of female
students will continue to increase with the improvement in primary education, more government funds will be

                                                       - 38 -

required to meet the cost of stipends and tuition. Therefore, there will be fewer funds available to invest in
programs to improve the quality of education.

Experience from the implementation of FSSAP, FSSAP-II and study reports of other female stipend projects
shows that both girls and their guardians are now more aware of the benefits of girls' education than before.
This is evidenced by the fact that the girls especially from well-to-do families disqualified from receiving
stipends for not being able to comply with the stipend criteria, still continue in the schools. Further, presently
boys do not get any stipend. Hence they suffer from a sense of deprivation and boys particularly of poor
families drop-out in the midst of their studies. Therefore, in order to bring the girls and boys of the poorer
section of the community to secondary schools, introduction of a scheme of targeted intervention based on
merit and needs of both boys and girls may be considered.

FSSAP-II has already introduced a Pro-poor Self-targeting scheme of stipend program for both boys and girls
in pursuance of a decision of the Mid-term Review Mission in 2004, and is being continued in the upcoming
Secondary Education Quality and Access Enhancement Project (SEQAEP) being supported by IDA.

In order to ensure sustainability and quality of girls' education, the households and communities must be
involved in the design, implementation and monitoring of any girls' educational projects. Poor quality of
education is an obstacle to sustainability. Further quality is a sine qua non for more efficiency. More
efficiency is essential for sustainability and expansion. Quality and efficiency considerations inspire the
community. If the expectations for quality secondary education and employment of SSC graduates are
unfulfilled, the gains in enrollment may erode. Therefore, quality of education must be improved along with
increase in enrolment.

Community involvement is essential for quality education, particularly in the rural areas, for complete
coverage and sustainability of the program benefits. Experience suggests that communities become actively
involved in any program when they have meaningful responsibilities, control of resources, and accountability.
These, along with good quality education for children, are the incentives for community participation in the
educational programs.

5. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE:
A. Bank
The performance of the World Bank right from the identification to the completion of the Project was
extremely satisfactory. The donor- borrower relationship was cordial, beneficial and productive during the
entire project period. Supervision Missions were very professional, timely and constructively critical providing
necessary guidance and advice for the proper and effective implementation of the Project. Both the donor and
borrower were responsive positively to the practical situation and needs that arose during implementation.
Problems, constraints and bottlenecks in the implementation of the Project were correctly identified and
adequately addressed. The concerned officials of the donor agency, both at the local office and headquarters,
were extremely generous in extending their cooperation, advice, support and guidance throughout the process
of implementation of the Project. The coordinated efforts of the officials of both the donor and the borrower
ultimately culminated in the successful implementation of the Project.

B. Borrower
All the officers and staff of FSSAP-II were very serious and sincere in accomplishing their individual tasks
assigned to them during the entire period of implementation of the Project. They were responsive positively to
the practical situation and needs that arose during the implementation of the Project. Both the Ministry of
Education (MoE) and the Ministry of Finance (MoF) were very cooperative and supportive throughout. This
testifies to the level of performance of each activity of the Project. The overall rating of performance of the
Borrower is "Satisfactory".

                                                     - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank Documents
1. Project Appraisal Document: Female Secondary School Assistance Project II (FSSAPII), February 7,
    2002 (Report No. 23594-BD).
2. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 3614-BD, March 28, 2002.
3. World Bank - Draft Technical Papers: Project Preparation (March 21 ­ April 8, 2001) and Project
    Appraisal (June 25 - July 11, 2001).
4. World Bank ­ Consultant Assessments (October 2000): (i) Implementation Considerations (Lessons
    Learned From FSSAP With Implications For A Possible FSSAP-II), (ii) Beyond Access: Improving
    Educational Quality in FSSAP Schools of Bangladesh; and (iii) Once Incentives, Now Entitlements:
    Examining Household and Community Factors in the FSSAP Program in Bangladesh.
5. Country Assistance Strategy for the People's Republic of Bangladesh, (February 8, 2001), Report No.
   21326.
6. Bangladesh Education Sector Review, 2000.
7. World Bank, Aides-Memoire, Back-to-office reports, Management Letters, Project Status
   Reports/Implementation Status and Result reports of all implementation review Missions (2002-2008).
8. Project Appraisal Document: Secondary Education Quality and Access Enhancement Project (SEQAEP),
   June 27, 2008 (Report No. 43955-BD).
9. Education Sector Sector Development Support Credit: Implementation Completion Report, June 24, 2008,
   Report No. ICR0000852.

Government Documents

10. Ministry of Education, Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education. Secondary Education Sector
    Development Plan (2000-2010). Dhaka: 1998.
11. Project Implementation Plan, Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education. Female Secondary School
    Assistance Project II (FSSAP II)(Main Report). Dhaka: October 15, 2001.
12. Unlocking the Potential National Strategy for Accelerated Poverty Reduction, Dhaka, 2005.
13. Project Completion Report of Secondary School Assistance Project II, Dhaka, June 25, 2008.
14. Evaluation of MTRT, July 2008.
15. Evaluation of Pro-Poor Targeting, December 2007.
16. Evaluation of School Management & Accountability, July, 2008.
17. FAP/NSP Evaluation Report, January 2005.
18. A Comparative Overview of all Female Stipend Projects.
19. Statistical Reports, Nation-wide female stipend program, 1999-2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007.
20. Revised Stipend Operation Manual for Nation Female Stipend Program,January-2004.
21. Annual Progress Reports, POU (various years).
22. The Socio-Economic Condition of Girls Disqualified from Stipend Program under FSSAPII, Directorate
    of Secondary and Higher Education, August 2005.
23. Performance of the Head of the Institutions for Improving Quality of Education at Secondary Level,
    Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education, April 2006.
24. Study on Comparison of Performance between MTRT-visited Institutions and Other Institutions under
    FSSAPII, Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education, December 2007.

Other Documents
25. Tracer Study of FSSAP II Graduates, May 2006.
26. Study on School Quality, UCIL, Dhaka, May 2006.

                                                     - 40 -

                88°                                                                 89°                                                            90°                                                              91°                                                                 92°

                                       Tetulia



                                                  Panchagar                      Patgram                                                                                                                                        BANGLADESH

                                      Atwari
                                          PANCHAGAR                                                                                                                                                FEMALE SECONDARY SCHOOL
                                                   Boda
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ASSISTANCE PROJECT II
                          Baliadangi                                    Dimla
                                                                Domar
                                                       Debiganj
                             THAKURGAON                                                    Hatibanda                              Bhurungamari
                                                                NILPHAMARI
               26°                                                        Jaldhake                                                                                                                                                PROJECT UPAZILAS
                                  Thakurgaon                                                   Kaliganj                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26°
                                                   Khansama    Nilphamari                                                                                                                                                         UPAZILA HEADQUARTERS
                        Ranisonkail                                                              LALMONIRHAT
                                                                                  Kishorganj                                   Nageswari
                                                                                                                        Fulbari
                                   Pirganj                                                          Aditmari
                                                   Birganj
                      Haripur                                                                Gangachara     Lalmonirhat    KURIGRAM                                                                                               DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS
                                                 Kaharol             Saidpur                                                Kurigram
                                      Bochagan                                                                                                                                                                                    DIVISION HEADQUARTERS
                                                  DINAJPUR                       Badarganj
                                                                                           Rangpur         Kaunia     Razarhat

                                                         Chirirbandar            Taraganj    RANGPURPirgachha             Ulipur                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                             Biral                 Parbatipur
                                                      Dinajpur                                 Mithapukur                                Rahumari                                                                                 UPAZILA BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                               Chilmuri
                                                                                                                 Sundarganj                                                                                                       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                    Fulbari
                                                                                     Nowabganj     Pirganj                        Razibpur                                                                                        DIVISION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                            Sadullapur
                                                                     Birampur
                                                                                                          Gaigandha
                                                                                                           GAIGANDHA                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                 Hakimpur
                                                                                          Ghoraghat      Palasbari
                                                                                                                         Fulchari        Bakshiganj
                                                                                   Panchbibi                                                        Jhinaigati
                                                                         JAIPURHAT                   Gabindaganj                  Dewanganj
                                          Shapahar         Dhamoirhat    Jaipurhat                                  Shaghata                    Sribardi             Haluaghat

                                                                                                                               Islampur                                                      Durgapur  Kalmakanda        Tahirpur    Bishambarpur     Dwarabazar        Companiganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jaintapur
               25°                                     Patnitala                              Kalai                                                        Nalitabari              Dhubaura
                                          Porsha                                                                                                   SHERPUR                                                                                                                        Gowainghat
                                                  NAOGAON                             Khetal        Sibganj         Sonatola                                                                                                              Sunamganj                                                   Kanairghat
                                                                       Badalgachhi                                                                                                                                         Jamalganj                       Chatak                                                                   25°
                                                       Mohadebpur                                     BOGRA                        Melandaha     Sherpur                                  Purbadhala
                    Bholahat                                                        Akkelpur                                                                  Nakla                                                  Dharmapasha
                                                                                         Dupchachia           Gabtali          Madarganj                                    Phulpur           NETRAKONA                               SUNAMGANJ                                     SHLHET
                                                     R A J S H A H I                                                                                                MYMENSINGH                                                                                                                                 Zakiganj
                                                                                                                    Shariakandi               Jamalpur                                       Netrakona   Barhatta                                                                      Sylhet     Beani

                           Gomastapur     Niamatpur                                                                                    JAMALPUR                                                                    Mohanganj                                         Biswanatn        Golapganj   Bazar
                                                     Manda                                                                                                               Mymensingh                                                       Dirai
                                                              Naogaon             Adamdighi    Kahalu     Bogra                                                                                          Atpara
                                                                                                                                                             Muktagacha                                                                          S Y L H E T
                 Shibganj          Nachol                                                                                                                                                 Guaripur
                       CHAPAI                                           Raninagar                                    Dhunot                                                                                                                         Jagannathpur                  Fenchuganj
                                                                                             Nandigram                                Sarishabari                                                    Kendua     Modan
                   NAWABGANJ                                                                                                                                    D H A K A                                                                                               Balaganj                 Barlekha
                                          Tanor                                                           Sherpur          Kazipur                                                                                        Khaliajuri
                                                            Bagmara              Atrai                                                           Madhupur                              Ishwarganj                                     Sulla

                       Chapai                                                                                                                                   Phulbaria
                                                                                                                                         Golpalpur                             Trisal                                                                 Nabiganj               Rajnagar
                   Nawabganj                    Mohanpur                                   Singra                                                                                                          Tarail                      Ajmiriganj                                        Kulaura
                                 Godagari                                                                                                                                                     Nandail                                     HABIGANJ
                                        RAJSHAHI        Durgapur                                                 Raiganj                                                                                                   Itna
                                                                                                                         Sirajganj                                                                                                                                Moulavibazar
                                                                       Natore       NATORE                                                         Ghatail                                                                                 Baniyachang
                                                 Paba                                                        SIRAJGANJ               Bhuapur                                                 Hossainpur   Karimganj
                                                               Puthia                                   Taras                                  TANGAIL                                                                                                                 MOULAVIBAZAR
                                                                                          Gurudaspur                   Kamarrhandi                                                   Gafargaon     Kishorganj         Mithamoin
                                                   Rajshahi                                                     Ullapara                       Katihati                 Bhaluka
                                                                                                                                                                                                      KISHORGANJ                                                            Kamalganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Srimangal
                                                                    Bagatipara                                                                            Shakhipur                           Pakundia                 Astogram               Habiganj
                                                           Charghat                    Baraigram                             Belkuchi                                                                 Katiadi   Nikli                                  Bahubal
                                                                                                    Chatmohar                            Delduar                                                                                    Lakhai
                                                                                                                                                    Basail                        Sripur                      Bajitpur
                                                           Bagha     Lalpur                             Bhangura     Shahzadpur
                                                                                                                                               Tangail
                                                                                                PABNA                          Chauhali
                                                                                                             Faridpur                                                    GAZIPUR                       Kuliarchar          Nasirnagar             Chunarughat
                                                                                      Ishardi                                                                                             Kapasia Monohardi
                                                                                                   Atgharia                                                                                                     Bhairab                 Madhappur
                                                           Daulatpur   Bheramara                                                                       Mirzapur                                                           Sarail
               24°                                                                                                         Bera          Nagarpur               Kaliakoir     Gazipur             Sibpur   Belabo
                                                                                                    Pabna         Santhia
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NARSINGDI            Brahmanbaria                                                             I N D I A                            24°
                                                                         Mirpur                                                                                                       Kaliganj
                                                                                                                              Daulatpur          Saturia                                        Palas      Raipur
                                                                                                               Sujanagar                                   Dhamrai                                                  BRAHMANBARIA
                                                                                       Kushtia                                              Ghior                    Savar                           Narsingdi
                                                        Gangni                          Kumarkhali                                               Manikganj            DHAKA                                     Nabinagar
                                                                                    KUSHTIA                                          Sibalay                                         Rupganj                                   Akhaura
                                                                                                   Khoksa                              MANIKGANJ           Singair                                     Bancharampur
                                                Meherpur                                                                                                                                    Araihazar
                                                                                                             Pangsa                                                     DHAKA                                              Kasba
                                                               Alamdanga
                                           MEHERPUR                                                                                        Harirampur                              NARAYANGANJ
                                                                                                Sailkupa        RAJBARIRajbari                                                          Sonargaon
                                                                                                                                                         Nawabganj                                             Muradnagar
                                                  Mujibnagar                         Harinakundu                                      Faridpur                          Keraniganj
                                                                                                                   Baliakandi                                                           NarayanganjHomna                 Brahmanpara
                                                    Damurhuda   Chuadanga JHENAIDAH                       Sripur                                 Char         Dohar     Serajdikhan       Bandar
                                                                                                                                                 Bhadrassan       Srinagar                                      Debiduar
                                                  CHUADANGA                                                                                                                                Gazaria
                                                                                         Jhenaidah                      Madhukhali  FARIDPUR                                        Munshiganj    Daudkandi             Burichang
                                                                                                                                                 Sadarpur
                                                                       Kotchandpur                     Magura Mohaminadpur                                          MUNSHIGANJ
                                                                                                                                   Nagarkanda                        Lohajang Tangibari                      Chandina
                                                    Jiban Nagar                         Kaliganj       MAGURA                                                                                                                Comilla
                                                                                                     Salikha                Boalmari             Bhanga    Sibchar     Janjira                Matlab                                                                                                Baghaichari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Barura
                                                            Maheshpur                                                                                                                                   Kachua
                                                                                                                                                                     SHARIYATPUR
                                                                                                                                        Muksudpur
                                                                       Chaugacha                                            Alfadanga               MADARIPURShariyatpur          Naria        CHANDPUR                  COMILLA                                                Panchari
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hajiganj                                                                             Dighinala
                                                                                                 Bagherpara                                                                                      Chandpur
                                                                                           Jessore                    Lohagara                                                                                                  Chauddagram
                                                                                                                                  Kasiani                Madaripur               Bhedarganj                              Laksam                                               KHAGRACHARI
                                                                                                                    Narail                         Rajoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shahrasti                                 Pashuram

                                                                     Jhikargacha                                NARAIL                                                       Goshairhat          Faridganj                                         Fulgazi                          Khagrachari
                                                                                   K H U L N A                                      GOPALGANJ                   Kalkini       Damudya                                           Nangalkot
                                                                                                                                                                                          Haimchar      Ramganj
               23°                                                  Sarse                                                                 Gopalganj                                                                                                                           Matiranga
                                                                                          Manirampur     Abhaynagar        Kalia                Kotalipara                                       Raipur         Chatkhil       Senbag     Feni                                                                                      23°
                                                                                       JESSORE                                                                           Muladi
                                                                                                                                        Tungipara       Agailjhara                    Hizla      LAKSMIPUR                                         Chhagalnaiya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Daganbhuiya                         Ramgar       Mohaichar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Laigadu
                                                                                                           Phultala     Terakhada                                 Gaurnadi                                            Begumganj              FENI
                                                                        Kalaroa            Keshabpur            Daulatpur                                 Ujirpur        BARISAL                      Laksmipur
                                                                                                                               Mollahat                                                                                                    Sonagazi                          Manikchari   Nannerchari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                                                                                                               Mehendiganj
                                                                                                       Dumuria           Khulna                        Banaripara                                                      Noakhali
                                                                                                                         Rupsa                                      Babuganj
                                                                       Satkhira             Tala                            Fakirhat Chitaimari Nazirpur                                                          NOAKHALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Companiganj        Mirsharai                   Laksmichari                 Barkal

                                                                                                              Batiaghata                             Sarupkati                                                                                                          Fatikchari
                                                                                                                              Bagerhat         PIROJPURJhalakati              Barisal      Bhola
                                                                                                                                         Kachua                                                                                                                                                                  Jurachari
                                                                                                                                                                        Nalchiti                                                                            CHITTAGONG                 Kawkhali    Rangamati

                                                                       Debhata                                           BAGERHAT                  Kawkhali
                      I N D I A                                                                                                                              JHALAKATI                          Daulatkhan  Ramgati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sitakunda
                                                                                        Asasuni  Paikgacha    Dacope       Rampal                         Rajapur
                                                                                                                                           Pirojpur                                                                                                                                                   RANGAMATI
                                                                                 SATKHIRA                                                                              Bakerganj                                                                                                  Rauzan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Hathazari               Kaptai
                                                                                                                                  Morelganj     Bhandaria                                    Burhanuddin                                        Sandwip                                 Rangunia
                                                                                 Kaliganj                                                                      Betagi                                    Tajumuddin
                                                                                                      KHULNA             Mongla                        Kathalia                      Bauphal      BHOLA
                                                                                                                                                                Mirzaganj                                                Hatiya                                                      Boalkhali       Rajasthali    Belaichari
                                                                                                      Koyra                                                                 Patuakhali
                                                                                    Shyamnagar                                Sarankhola                                                                                                                     Chittagong
                                                                                                                                          Mathbaria   Bamna   B A R I S A L Lalmohan                                                                                                  Patia

                                                                                                                                                                                     Dashmina              Monpura                                                                                       Rowangachari

                                                                                                                                                     BORGUNA                                                                                                                   Anwara   Chandanais
                                                                                                                                                                            Galachipa        Char Fasson
                                                                                                                                                      Borguna     Amtali                                                                                                                             Bandarbon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Satkania    BANDARBON
                                                                                                                                              Patharghata                                                                                                                                                            Ruma
               22°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lohagara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Banskhali                                        22°
                                                                                                                                                                    PATUAKHALI
                                                                                                                                                              Kalapara


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kutubdia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Chakaria     Lama               Thanchi



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Alikadam


              NEPAL                              BHUTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Moheshkhali

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 COX'S BAZAR          Nakhyangchari


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ramu
                                                         I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                        Cox's Bazar
                                                                                                                                                               Bay of Bengal

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ukhia                      MYANMAR
                                BANGLADESH

                                    DHAKA

              I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21°


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Teknaf
                                                                                                                             0           20            40                 60 Kilometers
                                                                          MYANMAR                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.

DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD
                                                                                                                             0                   20                   40 Miles                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                              Bay of Bengal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 36681
        2008                                                                                                                                    90°                                                                 91°                                                                   92°

