                                                                                92780 February 21, 2007


                                                                   Links:
                                                                   - What is IDA?
                                                                   - Our Work in Bangladesh


                                                                   More on Bangladesh:
                                                                   - Borrowing History
                                                                   - Data & Statistics
                                                                   - Research
                                                                   - Contact Us




The stipends program has been a testing ground for innovations, where approaches and
instruments pioneered under FSSAP have tended to find their way into other Government- and
donor-funded projects, including primary school initiatives, in Bangladesh and elsewhere. The
project does not attempt to tackle wholesale reform, rather it is a piece within the larger efforts
championed by the Government of Bangladesh in partnership with other donors, including the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD),
and the European Union (EU).




The IDA-financed Bangladesh Female Secondary School Assistance Program (FSSAP),
launched in 1993, supported a government program to improve access to secondary education
for girls by providing tuition stipends. It improved the quality of schools through teacher training,
provision of performance incentives to schools and students, and water and sanitation facilities.
The project covered 121 of Bangladesh’s 507 sub-districts.




Girl’s enrollment in secondary schools in Bangladesh jumped to 3.9 million in 2005, from
1.1 million in 1991, including an increasing number of girls from disadvantaged or remote
areas. This has enabled Bangladesh to achieve one of its Millennium Development Goals
ahead of time—gender parity in education.


Highlights:
- Girls’ enrollment spiked 67 percent in 17 years. Female enrollment, as a percentage of total
enrollment, increased from 33 percent in 1991 to 48 percent in 1997 and close to 55 percent in
2008.
- Girls pass rates soared. Secondary School Certificate pass rates for girls in the project area
increased from 39 percent in 2001 to 62.8 percent in 2008.
- Training grew, and focused on quality. More than 33,000 teachers were trained under the
project. Some 64,000 members of school management committees and another 64,000
members of Parent-Teacher Associations from 6,000 institutions were trained in school
management accountability, with a focus on education quality and conducive learning
environments.
- Participating schools exceeded the target. About 7,000 schools—many more than originally
targeted—participated in the program through a cooperative agreement with the Ministry of
Education.
- New schools built to meet needs. Twenty-five new schools were established to enhance access
to secondary education in very remote areas and in disadvantaged communities.
- Additional benefits accrued. Studies show that indirect benefits of the project included reduced
early-age marriages and fertility rates, better nutrition, and more females employed with higher
incomes.




IDA has contributed US$185 million since 1993 for several projects designed to enhance girls’
access to secondary education. In the early 1990s, the Government formulated its policy, and
IDA established implementation arrangements to take forward the Government’s policy initiative
on a major scale. IDA then helped build and strengthen a program management unit within the
Ministry of Education that manages and oversees the stipend program. With IDA support for the
program in 121 upazilas (sub-districts), the Government scaled up the program to the whole
country after its success in these upazilas. A key innovation was the direct funding mechanism
featuring the transfer of stipends directly from banks to individual girls’ bank accounts.




The stipends program has been a testing ground for innovations, where approaches and
instruments pioneered under FSSAP have tended to find their way into other Government- and
donor-funded projects, including primary school initiatives, in Bangladesh and elsewhere. The
project does not attempt to tackle wholesale reform, rather it is a piece within the larger efforts
championed by the Government of Bangladesh in partnership with other donors, including the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD),
and the European Union (EU).




The program has proven groundbreaking in addressing girls’ access to education and is widely
recognized as a pioneering undertaking. As a result, the Government has expanded the program
nationwide. A number of other countries, learning from the Bangladesh experience, have
implemented similar stipend or conditional cash transfer programs with IDA support.


Having achieved gender parity at the country level, the Government is now focusing more on
reaching economically and geographically disadvantaged girls, as well as poor boys, under a
new project—the Secondary Education Quality and Access Enhancement Project—also
supported by IDA. Along with the stipend program, the Ministry of Education is undertaking
reforms aimed at improving education quality through better governance and accountability. IDA
is supporting this through a series of education sector development credits.




Project documents
Text-only factsheet
