Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19986
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ON AN
IDA CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40.2 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
FOR THE
MARKET TOWNS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2103-ET)
December 29, 1999
Water and Urban Unit
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr
As of May 1990
Birr 1.00 = US$ 0.483
US$ 1.00 = Birr 2.07
As of June 30, 1999
Birr 1.00 = US$ 0.128
US$ 1.00 = 7.795
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDB            Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (subsequently named DBE)
AACG            Addis Abalba City Government
CBB             Construction and Business Bank
CBE             Commercial Bank of Ethiopia
DBE             Development Bank of Ethiopia
EDPO            Environmental Development Project Office
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
GoE             Government of Ethiopia
HASIDA          Handicrafts and Small Industry Development Agency
HSB             Housing and Savings Bank (subsequently named CBB)
IDA             International Development Association
MSE             Micro-Scale Enterprise
MIUDH           Ministry of-Urban Development and Housing
MWUD            Ministry of Works and Urban Development
NUPI            National Urban Planning Institute
OWMERDB         Oromiya Water, Mineral and Energy Resources Development Bureau
PIO             Project Implementation Office
RSO             Regional Slate of Oromiya
SSE             Small-Scale Enterprise
UDPO            Urban Development Project Office
UDSS            Urban Development Support Services
WSSA            Water Supply and Sewerage Authority
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager:    Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader:    Gautam Sengupta



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data .............................................................        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings .............................................................  2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry ..........  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs .............................................................  9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome ..........................................    14
6. Sustainability ..............................................................    15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance ........................                           16
8. Lessons Learned ..............................................................   17
9. Partner Comments ..............................................................  18
10. Additional Information ...............................................................  19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Annex 9. Key Implementation Indicators
Table 1. Water Supply Component: Assela & Shashemene Schemes
Table 2A. Municipal Infrastructure Component: Region 14 Kebele Upgrading
Works Executed
Table 2B. Municipal Infrastructure Component: Housing Infrastructure
Table 2C. Municipal Infrastructure Component: On-Site and Off-Site
Infrastructure
Tahle 3A. Employment Enhancement Component: Micro-enterprise Loan
Disbursement as of June 30, 1999
Table 3B. Employment Enhancement Component: Implementation of SSE Loans
Annex 10. Studies and Training included in the Project
Annex 11. Status of Legal Covenants
Annex 12. ICR Mission Aide Memoire and its Attachments
Attachment 1. Project Implementation Status as of June 30, 1999
Attachment 2. Schedule of Retention Money to be Released Prior to 31 October,
1999 against Bank Guarantee for Defects Liability
Attachment 3. Plan for Future Operations of Project Capital Investments
Annex 13. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Maps
No. 30665
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000722                                  Project Name: Market Towns Development
Project
Team Leader: Gautam Sengupta                         TL Unit: AFTU 1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                   Report Date: December 29, 1999
1. Project Data
Name: Market Towns Development Project             L/C Number:  21030
Country/Department: Ethiopia                                        Region: Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: IL - Small Scale Enterprise; UM - Urban
Management; WU - Urban Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original          Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/30/1987                          Effective:  10/24/1990       10/24/1990
Appraisal:  06/20/1989                            MTR:  NA                 NA
Approval:  03/13/1990                          Closing:  06/30/1997        06/30/1999
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government/ Urban Development Support Services of the Ministry of
Works and Urban Development/ Regional Bureaus
Other Partners.  None
STAFF               Current                               At Appraisal
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo                     Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:    Oey Astra Meesook                    Callisto E. Madavo
Sector Manager:     Jeffrey S. Racki                       Jonathan Brown
Team Leader at ICR: Gautam Sengupta                       Carolyn Gochenour
ICR Primary Author: Sudeshna RoyChoudhury
I



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(S=Satisfactory, HS=Highly Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely,
HUN=Highly Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact. N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)              ICR
Quality at Entry:            Not Applicable
iDroject at Risk at Any Time:  Not Applicable                Yes
3., Assessment of Development Ob>jective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3. 1.1. Project objectives outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 8087-ETwere:
(a) improving basic infrastructure and environmental conditions in project towns;
(b) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Urban D.evelopment and Housing (MUDH), to
assist municipalities in improving their financial performance and in carrying out their
development programs;
(c) providing assistance to urban service agencies, to carry out their activities more efficiently;
(d) encouraging micro- and small-scale enterprises in project towns to expand employment
opportunities and enhance incomes;
(e) introducing an experimental income enhancement/entrepreneurship development program for
women; and
(f) promoting the adoption of sound cost recovery policies and practices.
3.1.2. Background. The project evolved over a period of three years (1987-1990). The project concept
wvas clear and was in response to a request of the then Minister of Housing and Urban Development. At
that time urban development was not on the Bank's country assistance priority list. Although the project
design was intended to be based on the lessons learned from the First Urban Development Project (Cr.
1366-ET), in practice it proved to be ambitious and complex vis-a-vis the actual implementation capacity
of the institutions involved. Also, given the political development and the complex institutional
arrangements for implementation, the project design underestimated the risks associated with achieving
the development objectives.
3.1.3. To give a historic context of the assessment of project objectives, it would be useful to note the
thinking in the mid 1980s vis-a-vis sector issues both within the Bank and the Govemment. Around 1986
urban development was not a priority in the Bank assistance strategy to Ethiopia-the emphasis was more
on the productive sectors. The only ongoing urban project in the country portfolio was the First Urban
Development Project. The Bank's Country Assistance Memorandum (CAM) did not include any support
for a second urban project. The draft CPP, however, had a second project in the reserve program. An
Urban Infrastructure Review study that was due to be undertaken around this time was excluded from the
CAM program because of resource constraints but was retained in the ESW program proposed in the draft
CPP.
2



3.1.4. It was against this background that the then Minister of Urban Development and Housing visited
Washington D.C. in end July 1986 to discuss the Government's urban policies and lending with the Bank.
A request for IDA support towards promoting urban development in towns outside Addis Ababa, and for
evolving and implementing an overall urban policy was made at this time. The Minister outlined the
Government's thinking on a decentralization strategy. It was envisaged that a project to support the
Government's decentralization objectives would include social and community services and market
facilities which would be designed to serve a hierarchy of towns and villages. Service centers would be
established in the towns and villages and the services that each center would need to provide would be
tailored to the needs of the local community and economy. The service centers would all be inter-linked
organizationally so that not all services would need to be provided by every center. In this context, the
towns would have to be provided with a certain amount of basic infrastructure to foster productive
enterprises outside of Addis Ababa and generally to improve the links between the rural and urban
economies. This was also important given the need to slow down the rapid growth of Addis Ababa and to
expand employment opportunities in the rural areas. Bank staff at that time concurred with the Minister's
approach. Subsequently, a mission was fielded in February 1987 to discuss the objectives of a follow-on
project in the urban sector at which time agreement was reached between the Government and IDA that
the follow-on project would: (a) build on the experience of the First Urban Development Project; and (b)
expand its focus to support a strategy of regional development that was then being pursued by the
Government.
3.1.5. In keeping with the above understandings, a follow-on project, the Integrated Rural/Urban
Development Project began to be conceptualized. This proposed project, which was to cover nine towns,
would have included the following sub-components: housing, town-wide infrastructure improvements,
income enhancement and employment generation component, water supply, and a sanitation pilot
demonstration project. The other component was specifically targeted to Addis Ababa and involved sub-
components such as sites and services, kebele upgrading, national housing sector study, road
maintenance, and solid waste management.
3.1.6. It was envisaged that the total cost of the Integrated Rural/Urban Development Project would be
about US$100 million of which IDA would finance US$35 million with co-financing to be provided by
other bilaterals for the remainder of the US$65 million. However, all the bilaterals that were approached
(ODA, FINNIDA, SIDA, EIB, the Italians) declined. Shortly thereafter it was decided in the Bank that in
the interest of effective policy discussions and more efficient project implementation, the program would
be presented to Bank management and other possible donors as two separate operations: one would be the
Market Towns Development Project aimed at improving essential services and infrastructure tied to the
rural productive areas; the other would be an Urban Poverty Alleviation Project whose objective would be
to begin to tackle the absolute poverty conditions among the poor in Addis Ababa. This proposal of the
Bank was communicated to the Government in June 1989. Though the Government concurred with the
Bank's proposal, it pointed out that the two projects would need to be looked at as one given that the
Government perceives them as one integrated project and also due to the potential over-stretching of the
capacity of the implementing ministry, i.e., the Ministry of Urban Development and Housing if it had to
provide two separate project management offices to manage the implementation of the two projects.
Around mid 1989, it was decided that the IDA allocation for both these projects would be significantly
increased from US$35 million to US$75 million (US$40 million for the Market Towns Development
Project and US$35 million for the Urban Poverty Alleviation Project in Addis Ababa). Breaking the
original integrated project into two therefore served two key purposes: (i) it precluded presenting to IDA
management one large project for a country that most donors were looking at in askance at that time; and
(ii) it managed to provide the full funding (US$75 million) from IDA thus negating the other bilaterals'
reluctance to provide co-financing to the country just then.
3.1.7. Initially, nine towns were selected for inclusion underthe Market Towns Development Project
(MTDP) based upon various selection criteria. The Government, during pre-appraisal, requested for the
3



inclusion of an additional eight towns. Given the tight time frame in terms of processing the project for
EBoard approval, there was not enough time to do detailed feasibility studies for these additional towns. It
was agreed, therefore, that funds would be included under the project only for marketplace improvements
in these towns. During the project appraisal, however, it was decided that the nine original towns would
be included under phase one of the project. Feasibility studies, etc., would be conducted during phase one
in eight of the additional towns after completion of which actual investments in these eight towns would
possibly be included in a Second Market Towns Project.
3.1.8. Given the above background which needs to be put in the context of the multiplicity of objectives
(altogether six of them), the complex nature of the project can be better appreciated. In addition, the
political unrest around this time which eventually culminated in the overthrow of the previous regime and
establishment of a new government, caused serious disruption in management effectiveness. This
transition was characterized by major administrative and fiscal decentralization. In summary, thereality
oi the project in terms of its implementation context were as follows: the objectives were ambitious given
the complex institutional arrangements; the existing capacity of the various implementing agencies was
weak and for the most part untested; and systems and procedures especially with regard to procurement
and financial management were inefficient and inappropriate.
3. 2 Revised Objective:
3.2. 1. The project became effective in October 1990 and implementation progress was generally slow for the
first two years of implementation. Subsequently, implementation of the project virtually came to a standstill,
largely as a result of the overall transition in the country. This transition was characterized by major
administrative and fiscal decentralization in the country. Rapid changes in institutional responsibilities and
anrangements, frequent changes in key project staff and uncertain and evolving economic policies of a
government in transition contributed to poor project implementation. Shortly after the new government was
established, in June 1992, the credit agreement was amended to transfer US$5.2 million originally allocated
for the eight phase two towns, towards acquisition of vehicles, equipment, materials and spare parts for
emiergency rehabilitation of water supply systems in the three war ravaged northern areas of Tigray, Welo
and Gondar not originally included in the project. This activity was carried out under the Emergency
Recovery and Rehabilitation Programrne (ERRP).
3.2.2. While the new government accepted and supported the fundamental objective of this project, it
decided to conduct a review of the emphasis and implementation arrangements of the project, in light of the
changes in the economic, political and administrative policy environment. The govermnent established two
governing principles for restructuring the project: (i) to redirect project activities in a way to maximize the
benefits to the poor by improving access to basic services; and (ii) to strengthen management, financial and
technical capacity of service delivery/implementing agencies, particularly in the newly established Regional
Governments, to improve efficiency and sustainability of investments. An option that was available at the
time of restructuring was to cancel the ]project and to begin afresh with a new initiative which would reflect
not only the policies and priorities of the new government but would also be "tailored" to capacity constraints
of the implementing agencies. However, preparing a new project would have meant significant loss of time
in the face of the urgency the new government attached to directing investments for the benefit of the poor.
Furthermore, given the state of play in terms of broader policy dialog and the evolving relationship between
the new Government and the Bank, canceling the project was not considered as practical option. As a result,
the restructuring exercise attempted to primarily simplify some of the design and implementation aspects of
the project. However, in retrospect, the complex institutional and implementation arrangement issues were
not fully resolved; resulting in difficult implementation experience following the restructuring exercise.
3.2.3. The original project objectives, which were consistent with the objectives and priorities of the new
government, remained substantively unchanged during the restructuring of the project. However, the project
was conceived and designed under a set of policies and circumstances which were no longer fully applicable.
4



The economic policies of the new government needed to be reflected in the restructured project. Also,
considerable depreciation of the Ethiopian Birr (about 67% depreciation during implementation as compared
to the original appraisal estimate) had affected the amount of the proceeds remaining under the credit.
Therefore, though project objectives were not substantively changed, some priorities within the project
components were re-ordered, some project components were eliminated, and some new elements added.
3.2.4. The primary objectives of the restructuring were: (i) to realign the project in a manner consistent
with the new Government's policies and priorities; and (ii) to direct financial and technical resources to
those activities which would have the most development impact.
3.2.5. In this context, the original project objectives (a), (b), (c) and (d) enumerated in section 3.1.1.
above were maintained throughout the life of the project (except that the coverage of towns under the
restructured project was increased to 20) but changes were made regarding (e) and (f) during project
restructuring in July 1996 to reflect the then current realities. The original objective (e) which involved
an experimental income enhancement and business opportunity development program targeted towards
women was subsumed under objective (d) as there appeared to be no difference between the two
objectives except for the explicit targeting of women. Under the restructured project, with regard to
objective (d), it was reaffirmed that special focus would be given to women and women-headed
households and at least 50% of the loans for micro- and small-scale enterprises would go to them. With
regard to objective (f) which was, promoting the adoption of sound cost recovery policies and practices,
given that the Government's new priority was to strengthen management, financial and technical capacity
of service delivery/implementing agencies to improve efficiency and sustainability of investments, the
focus was changed towards trying to improve financial management and operating practices.
3.2.6. Therefore, after project restructuring the objectives were:
(a) Improving basic infrastructure and living conditions in 20 project towns;
(b) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MWUD), the
successor of MUDH, to assist municipalities in improving their financial performance and carrying
out their development programs;
(c) providing assistance to urban service agencies, to carry out their activities more efficiently;
(d) encouraging micro- and small-scale enterprises in project towns to expand employment
opportunities and enhance incomes; and
(e) improving financial management and operating practices.
3.2.7. The revisions to the project objectives were, therefore, not substantive in that the original project
objective (e) was subsumed under objective (d) as explained above and the same applies for the original
objective (f) with regard to putting the focus more on improvement of financial management and
operating practices under the restructured project. Based upon agreement with the Bank's Africa Region
management, the restructured project was approved by the Regional management and not submitted to the
Board.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1. Original project components included:
(i) Sites and services schemes, including construction of about 1,080 serviced plots and core and
finished housing units with supporting infrastructure in six phase one project towns;
(ii) Municipal infrastructure/ vehicles, including improvements to roads and drains, new roads and
culverts, improvements to markets, power line extensions to service new sites and services areas, as
needed, and provision of essential municipal vehicles and equipment in phase one project towns, and
improvements to markets and related infrastructure in phase two project towns;
5



(iii) Water supply improvement schemes, including major extensions in two phase one project towns
and rehabilitation works in foulr phase one project towns; and
(iv) Employment generation/ income enhancement including credit lines amounting to Birr 14.5
million and technical assistance to promote micro- and small-scale enterprise development in phase
one and phase two project towns; and
(vi) Irnstitutional support programs, including consultancy services, studies, technical assistance,
training, vehicles and equipment to strengthen management and maintenance systems, and assistance
for project management and irnplementation, as appropriate, for project agencies.
3.3.2. The total project cost, including contingencies, was estimated at US$52.9 million equivalent at
appraisal. The IDA Credit of US$410.2 million was supposed finance about 76% of the total project cost,
over a seven year period. At completion, final costs were about US$47.3 million of which IDA
contributed US$41.9 million (about 89% of total project costs).
33.3. The design of the project reflects that components were reasonably related to project objectives.
However, given the multiplicity of objectives and components, the multiple agencies involved in
executing the project (four), the relatively untested capacity of the implementing agencies, the
uncertainties with respect to the administrative and financial management capacities of agencies such as
the Housing and Savings Bank (HSB), Water Supply and Sewerage Authority (WSSA), and the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank project implementation was bound to be complex. In terms
ofi institutional capacity, though MUDH had some experience with executing the First Urban
Development Project in Addis Ababa, the scope and coverage of MTDP and the coordinating role that
the MUDH was required to play with regard to the other implementing agencies as well as the
municipalities was definitely a major challenge. With regard to the HSB (which was responsible for the
housing component of the sites and services schemes), around September 1989 it was noted that HSB was
almost entirely dependant on subsidized funding, which the Government provided by requiring the
pension and insurance sectors to main low cost deposits with HSB, and which IDA would supplement.
This directed and subsidized funding provided a disincentive to HSB to mobilize its own resources and
adversely affected development of pension and insurance funds as a major potential source of long-term
money. The taxation policy of the Government also appeared to constrain HSB's ability to build its equity
base. Finally, HSB had portfolio and financial problems, and the projections suggested that continued
iniusions of Government capital will be required to cover its deficits. On AIDB, it was pointed out by a
Bank reviewer that given its serious portfolio and institutional problems, the justification of AIDB to act
as an intermediary of IDA funds neecled to be strongly established in the appraisal report which should
also include a discussion of major problems of AIDB and what the Bank was doing about them. Finally,
WSSA, which was responsible for implementing the water supply component was a financially defunct
enl:ity in addition to having weak capacity in overall program management and on the technical side.
3.3.4. The housing sub-component of the sites and services scheme did take into account some of the
lessons learned from the previous IDA-financed Urban Development Project implemented from 1983-91
in the country. However, Government commitment to revise its policy on nationalized housing stock and
encourage private ownership did not materialize by the end of the first project, and the follow-on Second
Addis Ababa Urban Development Project was supposed to make this issue a condition of disbursement.
For various reasons, however, (see para. 4.2.2. for details), the effective implementation of this sub-
cornponent was hampered and eventually dropped during project restructuring.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4. 1. In restructuring three factors were considered: (a) poor implementation experience as a result of lack
of institutional capacity, an issue which needed to be urgently addressed; (b) project investments needed to
"spread" in a way to maximize the benefits to the poor; and (c) early closure of the project needed to be
pursued while using the remaining life (and funds) under the project to better prepare the service delivery
6



institutions for improved planning and implementation of the next generation of investments. Also, the
decentralization of basic public service responsibilities to the sub-national levels of government through the
regionalization process was another determinant for restructuring the project in order to align it with the
changed political and institutional realities. Another factor which helped in realigning specific component
budgets under the restructured project relates to gains due to exchange rate changes. The original project
costs were estimated at a time when the Birr was valued at Birr 2 = US$ 1. With the changes in the exchange
rate regime in the country, at the time of restructuring, the Birr was valued at about Birr 6 = US$1. Given the
large local content of the investments, the depreciation of the Birr resulted in significant local cost savings (in
terms of the US$ available under the credit). For instance, the amount of IDA credit at project restructuring
translated into Birr 266 million as compared to ETB 85 million at appraisal. Under the restructuring exercise,
a large portion of these gains due to exchange rate changes were directed at increasing the budgets for
specific components (valued in terms of local currency) to achieve the underlying objectives. Thus, under the
restructured project, the scope of some components was increased, some project components were
eliminated, and some new elements added in line with the governing principles, stated earlier, while
conforming to the original project objectives. In general, for the restructured project, the gain in value of the
IDA credit in terms of local currency has been directed towards two main objectives: (a) to increase the scope
of certain components to "scale up" the coverage of improved basic infrastructure to benefit the population at
large; and (b) to invest in building capacity of the institutions/agencies.
3.4.2. During project restructuring, the IDA credit amount was kept unchanged at SDR 31.4 million.
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was revised to reflect the revised application of the
IDA credit by component and component specific financing percentages. Financing percentages were
realigned to ensure full financing of each component by a combination of Government and IDA funds
(including amounts already disbursed). The following table summarizes the project budgets by component at
appraisal, restructuring and closure. At restructuring, an additional SDR 3,380,000 (US$ 4,732,000
equivalent was added for ERRP under WSSA and the new SDR to USD exchange rate was used.
Table 1: Summary of Component Budgets
(in US$ millions)
Component              Appraisal          Restructured    Actuall Latest
Estimate          Estimate        Estimate
Land                          .07               0               0
Sites and Services            1.18             .09            0.09
Housing Development           8.20             2.60           2.38
Municipal Infrastructure      6.16             7.23           4.96
Vehicles and Equipment        1.64             6.40           6.66
Water Supply                 21.06             16.59          18.06
Employment Support            7.00             5.69           9.17
Institutional Support         7.59             17.21          5.98
Total:      52.90            55.81           47.30
3.4.3. The total project cost was increased by US$2.7 million-about 5% of the original estimates. This
increase reflected the overall increase in the scope of some of the components and it was to be covered
through local financing. The main quantitative shifts in the project budget were as follows: (a) an increase of
about US$6.3 million for additional investments in municipal infrastructure and equipment (about 1 Ir/o of
total project cost); and (b) an increase of about US$9.6 million for institutional capacity building in the
project towns and MWUD (about 17% of total project cost). These increases would have been covered by
redirecting funds originally budgeted for "contractor built" housing (US$6.8 million), reallocating funds set
aside for market construction (US$5.0 million), and local cost savings in the water supply component (about
US$4.6 million) due to exchange rate changes.
7



3.4.4. The above shifts also reflect the following: (a) the government's policy to disengage from direct
housing construction; (b) expanding the scope and coverage of improvements in basic municipal
infrastructure in the original 9 project towns, 8 of which after the regionalization process fell under one
region, the Oromia region; (c) inclusion of 7 additional towns to accommodate the needs other regions; and
(d) a strong emphasis on capacity-particularly financial management-of the project towns.
3.4.5. Project restructuring reflected encouragement of capacity building of towns and institutions involved
in urban development and improving service delivery coverage aimed at improving the overall urban
environment. Employment generation through availing of income expanding activities and creation of
employment through large civil work programs was also highly pronounced in the restructuring proposal.
3.4.6. The housing development component of the project w.hich was initially to alleviate some of the
shortage of housing in the project tovns was deemed to be too expensive for the intended beneficiaries due to
the escalation of construction costs and high interest rates. Hence, continuation of this component could not
be economically justified to benefit the poor. Moreover, the government's new policy was to disengage from
financing direct housing construction and instead aim towards provide an enabling environment to attract
private investments for housing by providing more and better infrastructure. With regard to the development
of infrastructure in the project towns, the economic status of the towns were expected to improve by
attracting new investments and increased productivity. Therefore, the new investments in public works
envisaged during restructuring would result in an increase in employment and income opportunities for
workers employed in such activities. Also, maintenance of increased stock of infrastructure (mostly roads,
drtains and solid waste services) required and justified additional equipment, for which specific maintenance
anrangements had been agreed. Inclusion of slaughterhouses, as new infrastructure investments, was justified
on health and sanitation considerations. The increased allocation to capacity building reflected the need for
improving the financial and institutional capacity of the sub-national levels of government which were to be
responsible for the ultimate delivery of services at the local level after regionalization. A start was made in
this regard through the expanded Financial Management Support Services (FMSS) program. Furthermore, in
order to shape the future performance of the sector, studies on such issues as the Housing Sector were
justified to set up the enabling environment and policies.
3.4.7. The restructuring process took over two years to be completed, to ensure full ownership of both the
Central and the various involved Regional Governments. Given that the restructuring primarily involved
re-ordering of priorities within project components, elimination of some project components, addition of
sorne new elements, and the extension of the credit closing date by two years from June 30, 1997 to June
30, 1999 to allow for adequate time to complete project activities-not major substantive changes in
themselves-it was approved by the lRegional management in April 1997 without requiring approval by
the Board.
8



Rating                Component                         Sector              Total project
Cost (US$
million)
U       Sites & services including supporting          UH                     2.47
infrastructure
U       Municipal infrastructure improvement           UM                    11.62
S       Improvement/extension/ rehabilitation          WU                    18.06
of Assela & Shashemane water supply
schemes
S       Employment generation & income                 SE                     9.17
enhancement through SSE/MSE
U       Institutional strengthening of project         UM                     5.98
agencies
3.4 Quality at Entry:
(i) Consistency of project objectives with the CAS and Government priorities (see para. 3.1.2. for
details).
(ii) The Bank's safeguard policies, applicable to the project such as those on Environmental Assessment
were met. With regard to the environment, the project was stated to have a beneficial impact in terms of
improved environmental and health conditions by addressing critical sanitation deficiencies in the project
towns, drainage improvements, improved and expanded refuse collection, and provision of potable water.
An acceptable resettlement plan was provided by the Project Implementation Office of the Addis Ababa
City Government for those affected households (150) under the kebele upgrading scheme in Addis Ababa
(municipal infrastructure component) and suitable compensation made (see para 4.2.3 for details).
(iii) Quality of the design: (see sections 3.1. and 3.2. for details).
(iv) Reasonableness of assumptions about any relevant external factors One of the key project outputs
was housing units of which there was a huge and widely acknowledged and recognized shortage. In
addition, investments in municipal infrastructure in the project towns was also greatly needed given the
demonstrably poor living conditions that obtained in the majority of them. Investments in water supply in
the participating project towns were necessary in order to alleviate critical service deficiencies. The
employment generation and enhancement component was crucial for people living in these small market
centers which had limited potential for providing livelihoods. Project risks, especially with regard to
implementation, however, were underestimated given the complex institutional arrangements for
implementing the project. An extraneous factor, i.e. the civil unrest and the resultingoverall transition in
the country, put the project at considerable risk when implementation virtually came to a standstill during
early, yet critical, years of the project. Rapid changes in institutional responsibilities and arrangements,
frequent changes in key project staff and uncertain and evolving economic policies of a government in
transition contributed to poor project implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. Overall the outcome of the project is assessed as unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve its
major objectives and is unlikely to give substantial development results. Expected post-construction
economic or financial rates of return are either zero or negative (Annex 3). While 50% of the targeted
houses were constructed, they were not completed and made available to the beneficiaries because they
were too expensive to cater for the intended beneficiaries and remained unfinished. Construction and
financing costs have put the houses outside the income bracket of the originally targeted population. The
9



water supply in Assela and Shashemene had been completed but had a combined ERR of (- 1I%) and
mere 3.6% of FRR. Anticipated increased water tariff of 39% at appraisal did not materialize while
construction costs increased by 185% during the period of implementation alone. Achievement of the
institutional objective is unsatisfactory and impact negligible.
4.1.2. This has been both a difficult project to implement by the Government and to supervise by the
Bank. In retrospect, it is not self-evident that the lessons learned from the First Urban Development
Project were fully incorporated and built into the design and pragmatic implementation strategy for the
project. While the broad objectives of the project remain critical to achieving sustainable development
imnpact, what proved to be difficult wvas to operationalize these objectives, particularly considering the
limited implementation capacity and experience of the agencies concerned, the evolving institutional
relationship between the central government agencies and the newly created Regional Governments, and
the intended institutional and financial reforms, through the multiple project components. The weak
inmplementation capacity of the project entities and the transitions in the country since the beginning of the
project also hampered efficient and effective decision-making at critical junctures. Given this reality of
the project in terms of its implementation context, achievement of physical outputs was consciously
emphasized by both the Government and the Bank at the time of project restructuring. However, this
retuired intense Bank involvement, so much so that there was a risk of the Bank usurping implementation
responsibility of the project from the Government in order for the credit proceeds to be effectively utilized
within the time remaining. The more fundamental objectives of institutional and financial reform critical
for sustainability were not achieved. Although funding was retained for institutional and financial reforms
in the restructured project, in the absence of deliberate attention from the Regional Governments and
municipalities as well as the Central Government, this objective remains unfulfilled.
4.1.3. One of the consequences of the institutional "tensions" referred to above, between the Central
Government (the MWUD as the implementing agency) and ithe Regional Governments and municipalities
(the "owners" of the project) was the fact that the original project design which was not demand driven,
needed to be adjusted to be more demand responsive in order to accommodate the autonomy and
expressed demand of the beneficiary Regional Governments and towns. This adjustment process, in the
context of evolving relationships betvween the center and the Regions proved to be difficult. In addition,
the participatory demand driven process at the sub-national level was not followed through down to the
community level.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Sites and Services: About US$90,000 was expended on supporting infrastructure for the housing
development component. This activity was completed well before project restructuring at a time when
continuous personnel changes were being made in the project agencies.
4.2.2. Housing Development: A total of 540 houses compared to the appraisal target of 1080 houses have
been built in seven project towns. A key change during project implementation was with regard to the
original beneficiary target group which changed due exchange rate devaluation, domestic inflation, and
increase in interest rate by HSB on mortgages in 1993. The local construction costs were estimated to have
increased by more than 100% from the appraisal report estimates. New interest loans were pegged at 11.5%
and 12% respectively for medium-terrn and long-term loans. In addition, the reclassification of some of the
project towns (downgrading) under the regionalization policy reduced the demand for housing in the short-
term in these locations.
Arotnd end 1993, the Bank noted that the viability of the contractor-built housing component under the
current macro-economic conditions was seriously in question and that it was not yet clear whether the houses
could1 be afforded by the original target group; or in instances, whether there was any effective demand for
them in particular towns. Since there was already a considerable amount of "sunk costs" in this component, it
10



would be important to find ways to recover the investrnents already made. During discussions in the project
restructuring mission of April 1994, it became apparent that: (i) the contractor-built houses were not
affordable to the residents in the towns; (ii) there was very little demand for the houses even from commercial
sectors; (iii) no clear strategy to dispose of the houses to end-users had been established; and (iv) the
implementing agencies (PCO, UDPO, HSB) and the municipalities had failed to reach consensus in relation
to the payments for the escalated costs to the contractors. Under the contractual agreement between the
municipalities (UDPO as their representative) and the contractors, the municipalities were required to bear
the cost escalation and make payments as HSB was not supposed to finance the cost escalation. However, the
municipalities claimed that HSB should finance cost escalation as their financial resources were scarce and
that the project had not been initiated by the current municipal governments but by UDPO and HSB.
The Government then came up with a proposal to manage the severe cost over-runs (due to devaluation of the
Birr, the continued shortage of building materials and general inefficiency) on the housing component
through central government (Ministry of Planning and Economic Development) subsidy and local
government acquisition. IDA suggested that creating local and regional housing authorities was a sub-optimal
long-term solution and that effort should be made to turn these properties over to the private sector. Around
September 1994 a final decision on the disposal of the 540 contractor-built housing units had yet to be made,
as the parties involved were still examining alternative schemes. Then, as a fall-back, MWUD proposed an
equity sharing scheme. However, at the request of the CBB, who were concerned about a further component
that demonstrably would not meet its original, primary objective of providing affordable housing, the
Government decided to sell the units on an "as-is" basis in April 1995 which IDA agreed to. Eventually, this
component was dropped from the restructured project. At that time the 540 contractor-built houses were in
various stages of completion, some almost complete, others partially completed. However, no additional
construction was done after the contracts with the contractors were terminated. It is unlikely, therefore, that
these houses will be habitable in the near future.
4.2.3. Municipal Infrastructure: Activities completed under this component include kebele upgrading
works in Addis Ababa which comprise: upgrading of 22.4 km of access roads, 23.4 km of drainage
pipeline, 26 toilets, 18 water taps, 32 hard stands for solid waste containers and 3 bridges at a cost of
approximately US$550,000. Most of the works envisaged under this project remained unfinished due to
the poor implementation capacity of the EDPO resulting in an unutilized amount of US$644,000 allocated
to the sub-component which will have to be canceled from the credit. IDA supervision missions
repeatedly expressed their concerns about EDPO's lack of capacity and proposed several alternatives such
as supplementing the agency's capacity through the engagement of specialist inputs, NGO intervention,
etc. but to no avail. There was no significant dislocation caused by project activities; fences, utility lines
and houses in the kebeles to be upgraded were affected to a certain degree. About 150 households
residing in private and Government owned houses were affected and compensation of Birr 526,000 was
paid. Compensation was also paid to utilities in those instances where utility lines had to be relocated.
Other activities under the municipal infrastructure component that were completed are: road upgrading
works (4,998 m), off-site roads (36,545 m2), on-site roads (35,776 m2), market unlined channel (8,327
ml), market lined channel (1,222 ml), 8 communal latrines, 28 open market stalls, 10 covered market
stalls, market surfacing works (30,791 m2), 147 culverts on site, 88 culverts off site, 11.3 km of asphalt
roads, and 9 slaughter houses at a cost of US$4.96 million. Though the investments are not likely to be
sustainable, inputs through the roads, slaughterhouses, etc. are having a positive impact in improving the
quality of services and coverage in the project towns.
4.2.4. Vehicles and Equipment: This component included the procurement of vehicles and essential
municipal equipment for road maintenance, solid waste management, slaughter house operations, sanitation,
etc. for the project towns and implementing agencies for a total of US$6.6 million. Some of the equipment is
stranded at Assab due to the current situation with Eritrea. During a reallocation of credit proceeds, bearing in
mind the critical need for these equipment and vehicles in the municipalities, monies were reallocated to
11



provide for some replacement equipment. These equipment and vehicles are facilitating municipal activities
such as road construction and maintenance, provision of sanitation facilities and slaughter house operations.
In addition, some of this equipment is also being rented out to the private sector and generating revenues for
rnunicipalities.
4.2.5. Water Supply: This component was substantially achieved. Under this component major
extensions to the Assela and Shashemane schemes including civil works, provision and installation
electro-mechanical equipment, and supply of pipes and fittings (see Annex 9, Table 1 for details) was
undertaken. However, materials for rehabilitation works of the four schemes in Ambo, Wollisso, Goba-
Robe and Mizan Teferri were procured under the water supply component of the ERRP and their
installation subsequently carried out under that project. The total cost of this component amounted to
US$18.06 million. The works in Assela and Shashemane were commissioned in early April 1998.
Available production capacity increased from 2,400 m3/day in 1996 to 14, 400 m3/day in 1998. The
production capacity is estimated to be adequate to meet the water demand of the two towns until 2010
which is the end of the design period for both projects.
Significant delays in construction can be attributed to the very unsatisfactory performance of the civil
works contractor up until the end of 1996. Also, hand-over of the implementation responsibility for these
schemes from WSSA to the Oromia Region entity (Oromia Water, Mineral and Energy Resources
Development Bureau) after regional;ization and the uncertainties involved during this period were a factor
in delayed implementation. There were also delays in the installation of the electrical and mechanical
works as well as the supply of pipes and fittings.
Thlough design standards were adequate, there are emerging problems that could seriously hamper the
future operation of the schemes. The most pressing problem is at Assela where a deep and wide rift
caused by landslide has formed along the major transmission line putting at risk the operation of the 1,000
m3 reservoir and the transmission line that originates there. A huge gorge has been formed just below the
bottom of the pipe, apparently there is a small fault line under formation which might cause a major
landslide in the future. Immediate solutions based on detailed investigations urgently need to be done in
order to avoid serious problems. IDA has already alerted the OWMERDB on this issue.
4.2.6. Employment Generation: The total cost of both the micro-and small-sale enterprises component
amounted to US$9.17 million. The micro-scale enterprise (MSE) sub-component has been fully
im;plemented having covered 57 towns in the four regions of Tigray, Amhara, Oromia, and Southern
Peoples, Nations and Nationalities. Disbursements under the micro-scale sub-component were made to
1,321 cooperatives. MSE loans generally resulted in improvement of living conditions of the beneficiaries
as t provided them with a formal source of funds to finance income generating activities. With successive
rounds of loans they have been able to build assets through the purchase of equipment, houses and cattle,
etc. About 67% of the beneficiaries were women exceeding the appraisal target of 50%. Estimated
employment creation of the MSE loans was for about 53,586 workers. Loan repayments were good as
manifested in the high and rising ratio of total loan collection to disbursement which rose from 58.9% in
1996 to 96.7 % in 1998; also, arrears as a ratio of outstanding loans declined from 21% in 1995 to 8% in
1997.
Small-scale enterprise loans were availed to 228 enterprises in a total of 22 towns in the four regions
mentioned above. SSE loans created employment opportunities for approximately 900-1000 persons.
After restructuring, given the demand on the ground, the focus shifted more towards MSE. As a result,
appiroximately US$325,000 allocated fTom the IDA credit for this sub-component remains unutilized and
is canceled.
Institutional arrangements for administering the employment support component were fairly complex and
responsibilities were given to agencies which had no mandate to supervise and implement such activities.
12



However, given the absence of micro-finance institutions in the country at that time this was seen as the
best possible option. This institutional arrangement did result in delays in loan approvals and
disbursements because of bureaucratic processing requirements.
4.2.7. Institutional Support Institutional support under the project included procurement of office
equipment, vehicles, other hardware necessary for re-tooling the Regional and municipal offices, and various
technical assistance in the form of consultancies to the project agencies, the Regions and municipalities.
Although about $17.2 million was allocated for institutional support inputs, reflecting the priority
attached to capacity building at the time of restructuring, in reality many of the elements of the
institutional support components, particularly technical assistance inputs, were not absorbed by the
agencies concerned. Only about US$ 5.98 million was expended under this component primarily for
hardware. The Financial Management Support Services outreach function, though a small sub-
component (about US$500,000), was one of the more successful components under the project in that the
project towns benefited in terms of improved financial management practices and revenue mobilization
aspects. The implementation experience of FMSS clearly indicates the potential benefits of scaling up
such an activity not only for the above mentioned benefits but more importantly because it has
contributed towards providing sub-national governments with the tools necessary for making
better/informed management decisions and policies. In addition, the way the FMSS was developed and
delivered provides an interesting model for outreach functions from the Central Government to the sub-
national governments.
One of the key studies financed under the project, the Housing Sector Study was completed. The
Government, however, has not formally adopted the recommendations of the study or informed IDA of its
intentions on the way forward.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return: See Annex 3 for details.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return for the Assela and Shashemene water supply schemes at completion (based on
operating revenues and operating maintenance) is estimated at 3.64%.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1. The institutional development impact has been at most modest or negligible. There was some
institutional development in terms of capacity enhancements in agencies such as UDSS, and other project
agencies due to project inputs. The project, however, was unable to significantly influence fundamental
policy reforms, program formulation, prioritization of investments and related financial management and
implementation issues within the Regions and municipalities. The project, throughout its implementation
period, was perceived more as an "enclave" operation outside the mainstream policy and operational
framework of the Regions and the municipalities. In addition, the nucleus of skilled professionals built at
the UDSS was gradually lost as the project came to a close.
13



5. Major Factors Affecting Impleimentation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
After effectiveness, political instability caused a dramatic slowdown in implementation. No Bank
supervision missions were undertaken between October 1990 to October 1991. With restoration of
political stability in late 1991 implementation resumed, but changes in senior personnel resulted in less
rapid development than would have otherwise occurred. Unsatisfactory performance by contractors and
consultants also contributed to delayed implementation.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
MUDH, in its early years was not supportive in terms of providing necessary office facilities, staffing, etc
Two years into project implementation, changes of high level personnel were continuing to be made in
the implementing agencies and this had an adverse effect on implementation efficiency as younger, often
inexperienced officers replaced older more seasoned managers. Adequate staffing with the requisite
technical and managerial skills for eiffective project implementation was an issue that IDA repeatedly
brought up during discussions with the Government but the Government remained in violation of the
staffing covenant of the project till its closure. In the absence of competitive remuneration packages, there
was further attrition of staff in the last couple of years of the project duration thereby adversely affecting
the- pace of implementation. There were also coordination problems among the various implementing
agencies due to lack of recognition by them of their respective coordination responsibilities. Delays in
implementation and decision-making were also attributable to the change in the roles of the implementing
agencies after regionalization. In addition, due to regionalization, the ultimate nature of the relationship
between the various levels of government were not clear till about 1994. The handing over of
implementation responsibility to the regional bureaus and municipalities which had manifestly less
capacity than what obtained at the Central Government level resulted in further delays. Also, existing
systems and procedures in the country especially with regard to financial management and procurement
were overly bureaucratic and did not facilitate matters.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Substantial and persistent delays in completing various critical tasks were still the norm around 1997 even
after the restructuring exercise. Most of the delays stemmed from delays in internal decisions, actions and
processes within the various implemeinting and coordinating agencies. In particular, IDA expressed its
concern about the procurement management and processing capacity of the implementing agencies and
suggested that the project agencies secure highly-trained procurement expertise from the open market to
supplement and enhance their capacity in this field. Other than OWMERDB, who did follow this IDA
recommendation which greatly enhanced the pace of implementation and quality of supervision of the
water supply component, no action was taken. Also, the UDSS was unable to retain key staff thus
impeding effective implementation and important monitoring and evaluation activities especially in the
last one year of the project. Tariff increases were delayed making not only cost recovery difficult but also
operation and maintenance.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project costs were estimated at a time when the Birr was valued at Birr 2 = US$1. With the
changes in the exchange rate regime in the country, at the time of restructuring, the Birr was valued at about
Birr 6 = US$ 1. Given the large local content of the investments, the depreciation of the Birr resulted in
sign;ificant local cost savings (in terms of the US$ available under the credit). The shifts in resources from
whai: was envisaged at appraisal and what the latestlactual estimates are shown in 3.4.2 Table 1
14



(i) Sites and Services: The lower actual estimate is attributable to the elimination of the housing
component which contributed to stoppage of work on the supporting infrastructure.
(ii) Housing Development: Actual estimate is lower primarily due to the elimination of this component
during restructuring.
(iii) Municipal Infrastructure: The lower actual estimate is due to over-estimation of works in some
instances and savings realized from the non-completion of the kebele upgrading program in Addis Ababa
as well as an extension to the Bahir Dar municipal road.
(iv) Vehicles and Equipment: Increase in the actual estimate primarily due to increased focus on the
provision of increased numbers of municipal vehicles and equipment during restructuring given the need
to restock critical essential municipal equipment in the project towns.
(v) Water Supply: Actual estimate is lower primarily due to decreased costs of civil works stemming from
exchange rate savings and non-procurement of water supply distribution and electro-mechanical
equipment.
(vi) Employment Support: Actual estimate is higher due to increased allocation to the micro-scale
component.
(vi) Institutional Support: The lower actual estimate is due to unutilization of allocated resources for
retooling of administrative facilities of the regional governments.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Overall, the investments under the project are unlikely to be sustainable. Although it is understood that
budgets for operations and maintenance have been provided by the regional governments and
municipalities, actual impact can only be determined through the proper application of these funds. This
is further reinforced by the fact that in general, there has been a lack of credible institutional, financial,
and operational capacity building at the Regional level primarily due to capacity constraints. There were,
however, some institutional benefits that accrued to the finance departments of those municipalities that
received assistance via the outreach functions provided by the Financial Management Support Services
unit of the UDSS. In addition, OWMERDB, MWUD, UDSS and DBE profited from institutional
strengthening inputs which assisted in improvements in overall operational efficiency of these agencies.
With regard to the micro-scale enterprise component, despite its highly satisfactory outsome, given that
the management and implementation of it was done under ad-hoc institutional arrangements which
involved institutions whose missions and objectives are not consistent with those of micro-scale financing
and promotion, it is unlikely that the component will be sustainable under this current institutional
arrangement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Attachment 3 of Annex 12 (the ICR Mission Aide Memoire) contains a plan for future operations of the
major components financed under the project. This plan was developed and agreed to between IDA and
the UDSS and represents what is considered to be essential to ensure sustainability of the investments.
Specifically, with regard to the water supply component, there is a credible commercial plan, approved by
IDA, that was developed for the water supply schemes in Assela and Shashemane to enable proper billing
and collection procedures as well as modalities for operations and maintenance in order to ensure the
sustainability of the schemes. There is no strong evidence that this plan would be put into operation
except the borrower's indication that funds have been allocated. On the micro-scale component, as noted
above, though it is unlikely that the component will be sustainable under the current institutional
arrangement, a legal framework for the establishment of micro-finance institutions has been developed
and these have begun operating in some areas. Also, a Micro- and Small-Enterprise Development Agency
has been set up to promote, coordinate and assist micro-finance institutions. In order to achieve
15



sustainability of this component of the project, the entire operation will have to be transferred from DBE
and the Regional Trade and Industry Bureaus to these newly established micro-finance institutions. The
Government, however, has not committed itself to any such undertaking so far.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Refer to paras. 3.1.3-3.1.8.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision performance is considered to be satisfactory, although the frequency and impact of
the Bank's supervision effort varied during different implementation periods of the project. Bank's
supervision effort became more intense and proactive including and following the restructuring exercise
from 1996. During this period the Bank fielded 10 supervision missions and supervised the project with
due diligence; the country department recognized this project as being one of the best supervised in a
review conducted in 1997-1998. Prior to 1996, effective supervision of the project was adversely effected
by the political transition in the cotntry, subsequent changes in key personnel in the implementing
agencies as well as changes in Bank task team. This lack of continuity of key personnel, both in the
implementing agencies and in the Bank, exacerbated an already difficult implementation environment.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Unsatisfactory.
:Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Ihe Government's preparation performance was adequate given the capacity limitations.
:7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation performance has generally been unsatisfactory. The civil unrest in the country in the early
Years of the project retarded implementation progress to a point where only about 14% of the credit was
cdisbursed at the end of two years after credit effectiveness. Tiere were lengthy delays in the procurement
process coordination among the key implementing agencies was weak. Project restructuring took two and
half years (from January 1994 to July 1996 from the Government's side) due to decision-making
constraints, as well as capacity constraints. Frequent high level management changes also exacerbated
delays in the pace of project implementation. In addition, performance of contractors and suppliers was
unsatisfactory which stemmed in part due to the UDSS's limited capacity to effectively supervise their
activities.
7. 6 Implementing Agency:
DLespite the efforts put in by the implementing agencies, weak capacity in these agencies contributed to
delays in implementation. In addition there were coordination problems between the key agencies such as
UDSS, OWMERDB, DBE and the Project Implementation Office of the Second Addis Ababa Urban
Development Project and the Environmental Development Project Office of the Addis Ababa City
Government (these two agencies were responsible for supervising and executing the kebele upgrading
sub-component under the municipal infrastructure component) which impeded implementation progress.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Umsatisfactory.
16



8. Lessons Learned
8.1. On demand-responsiveness: The project appears to have achieved its physical targets (water supply
scheme) although it is not likely to achieve the expected benefit (low ERR) and unlikely to be sustainable
(cost recovery, institutional capacity). In terms of institutional development, implementation experience
of the project has helped raise the level of awareness amongst those involved in its execution in terms of
the complexity of issues involved in planning, design and implementation of basic infrastructure
improvement programs. In the Government's attempt to adjust the project to the changed circumstances
arising out of the regionalization process, the project proved to be a useful vehicle to define and deliver
the development programs in a demand-responsive manner-a concept which was not built into the
original project design.
8.2. On Main Streaming: In general, however, the project has not been able to achieve substantially its
institutional development and broader capacity building objectives in the project agencies. This is an issue
which will take much longer to resolve. In particular, in this context it should be noted that the project
objectives and the development imperatives did not get fully incorporated into the mainstream policies
and programs of the various Regions and municipalities. In a sense the project worked as an enclave
operation without having many of the benefits accrue to these sub-national governments as a whole. Also,
the project was unable to significantly influence fundamental policy reforms, program formulation,
prioritization of investments and related financial management and implementation issues within these
sub-national governments. However, the project did help raise awareness of the importance of these
issues and in this context, the Government has already approached the Bank for assistance on an
operation which will help to address these issues within the overall context of political, administrative,
fiscal and functional decentralization in the country.
8.3. On Comparative Advantage of the Bank: Given the experience with this project it is the task team's
assessment that it is not self evident, based upon the implementation experience of this project, that the
Bank has a comparative advantage in financing and supervising small individual sub-projects. Given the
high transaction costs of such an approach, the Bank should concentrate on assisting the client in building
its capacity to effectively and efficiently manage the project implementation process. Experience
indicates that the Bank should be less involved in "managing" the implementation process and be more of
a "financier" and a "catalyst" to support building up the client's management capacity.
8.4. On Development Impact at Local Government Level: It is understood based upon recent
communication that the Government has recognized that in order to achieve maximum development
impact at the sub-national levels of government interventions need to be devised and implemented in a
manner that are demand-responsive to local needs and at the same time consistent with the national
policies and objectives of decentralization. Development activities in this context should include a
combination of investment funds, institutional and systemic reforms and improvements in planning,
finance and implementation, and practical and output/outcome oriented capacity building initiatives at the
sub-national level. The goal needs to be towards achieving higher development impact at the local levels,
across all sectors, irrespective of the source of funding for such development activities.
8.5. On Priority Development Tasks: Based upon the implementation experience of the MTDP and
decentralization support initiatives in other countries, such a program should aim to %sist the
Government in operationalizing the principles of fiscal and functional decentralization of services through
a range of sub-national levels of government in an efficient, effective and demand-responsive manner so
as to enable the sub-national levels of government (and broader economic catchment areas) to function as
centers of economic growth. In this context, the capacity of these sub-national levels of government
would need to be enhanced in order to provide an enabling environment to attract increased private sector
investments to support economic growth objectives. Also, severe basic infrastructure constraints which
are a bottleneck to increased private sector investments would need to be relieved. In addition,
17



investments would need to be targeted in a participatory and sustainable manner so as to maximize
benefits to the poor.
8.6. On Decentralization: Among the relevant lessons learned for the policy considerations in support of
decentralization programs are:
(i) A considerable amount of analytical work would need to be done to at first in order to arrive at a
thorough understanding of the problems, and the choices (and their consequences) available to the
Government to effectively address the key issues. Any future decentralization support operation,
therefore, would need to be an unfolding process of incremental and systemic reforms, supported by both
investment and capacity building inputs, without any ex-ante presumption of the specific content or
implementation detail. This notwithstanding, it would be critical to have a clear vision and a blueprint to
make decentralization work more effectively over time and over a gradually broader coverage of
population centers across the country.
(ii) In line with the basic principles and philosophy of decentralization, the sub-national govemments
would have to be the owners of the program. However, the central government would also need to
effectively exercise its role to ensure performance, accountability and strong monitoring and compliance
with broader national policies, objectives and standards.
(iii) The initiative would need to have the requisite flexibility in order to have it constructed as a
development fund (for both physical investments and capacity building support) available to the sub-
national levels of government through the government's owns intergovernmental financial transfer
systems. In this regard, the initiative could be designed to provide "budget-support" to the sub-national
governments for development activities. This budget-support should, however, be based on clear
performance, accountability, capacity and equity considerations and be made available to qualified local
governments for any locally determined development or investment need.
(iv) Experience in other countries with similar programs to support effective implementation of
decentralization has shown that capacity building inputs must go hand in hand with actual investment
projects. For capacity building to "take hold", it must be done in the context of real projects with real
outputs. Conversely, for real projects to achieve their fullest impact, their implementation must be
accompanied by relevant capacity building. Under a decentralization support initiative, capacity building
inputs could encompass both skills training as well as systems/procedural reforms whereby professionals
with enhanced skills would find a more conducive environment to do their jobs more effectively.
Capacity building inputs would therefore need to be practical, output-oriented and could initially focus on
such basics as the ability to more effectively plan, manage finances and implement (procurement,
engineering supervision, etc.) local level programs.
(v) It is recommended that any prospective decentralization support initiative should be an instrument to
support the decentralization objectives of the Government across all levels, and therefore should not be
viewed as either having exclusively an urban or a rural focus given the inextricable linkages between the
urban and rural centers, through economic, social, institutional, and market mechanisms. The
decentralization support initiative would need to explicitly, recognize these linkages with the objective of
making broader "economic catchment areas" function more effectively to achieve their fullest
development potential. The initiative would also need to attempt to reach convergence of responsibility,
authority and accountability centers to provide any type of services or development input which are
locally determined and demanded.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency. See Annex 13 for the Borrower's contribution to the ICR.
Furthermore, the Borrower's comments on the overall ICR was received and appropriately reflected.
18



(b) Cofinanciers: Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector): Not Available
10. Additional Information
10.1. Approximately US$2.27 million of the credit remains undisbursed (afterreconciliation between
overdrawn and under drawn categories of about US$690,000). Therefore, expected savings anounting to
US$2.27 million would be canceled from the credit.
10.2. The current status of the undisbursed monies and the reasons why are enumerated below:
Component                     Undisbursed               Reasons for Savings
as of 12/15/99
(in US$)
Kebele Upgrading in Addis            644,129  Weak implementation capacity and
Ababa (civil works)                           unsatisfactory performance of EDPO.
Municipal Infrastructure (civil      533,531  Primarily because of cancellation of the
works)                                        extension of the Bahir Dar road due
disagreement between the Government and
contractor on the estimated cost of the road
extension. Also, some savings from slaughter
house construction in all the 9 towns due to
overestimation of works.
Water Supply (civil works)           160,348  Savings after final reconciliation of costs by
OWMERDB.
Water supply pipes and fittings      449,298  Unused amount as the equipment could not be
(goods)                                       procured on time due to delay in the
procurement process.
Vehicles and Equipment for           483,671  Actuals were less than originally budgeted.
project towns (goods)
Water Supply Electro-mechanical       41,216  Savings after final reconciliation of costs by
equipment (goods)                             OWMERDB.
Consultant Services and Training     154,352  Actuals were less than originally budgeted.
for MWUD (services)
Consultant Services and Training     102,593  OWMERDB not able to use this money to
for OWMERDB (services)                        procure services on time.
Loans for Small-Scale Enterprises    325,294  DBE focussed more on the micro-scale
(loans)                                       enterprises given the higher demand.
Special Account Advance               71,368  Balance in the Special Account as money
could not be used within the time remaining.
TOTAL                              2,965,800 _
19



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
20



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:                                                                           l
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
See under Note below.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 Projected in last PSR1           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Infrastructure improvements in the
market towns in terms of new/ improved
roads, drains, markets and slaughter
houses.
(i) Kms. of new/ improved roads.
(ii) Kms. of new/ rehabilitated drains.
2. Provision of municipal vehicles and
equipment for improved municipal
management.
(i) Quantity of municipal services
provided with the equipment.         ______                   ______
3. Improvement of the Assela and
Shashemane water supply systems in
terms of rehabilitation, expansion,
distribution, and management capacity
resulting in increased and improved
water supply in these two towns.
(i) No. of new households with
permanent water supply.
(ii) No. of public water facility users.
(iii) Percent of unaccounted for water.
4. Provision of sub-loans to small-scale
and micro-scale enterprises leading to
employment generation and income
enhancement of beneficiaries in the
market towns.
(i) No. of SSE and MSE beneficiaries per
town.
(ii) No. of new employments/ employees
generated per town.
(iii) No. of individuals who have
experienced income enhancement per
town.
(iv) Total amount of SSE and MSE loans
disbursed per town.
(v) Rate of repayment of SSE and MSE
loans per town.
21



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR1         Actual/Latest Estimate
5. Improvement in Financial
Management Support Services (FMSS)
and Management Support Services
(MSS) in the towns due to strengthening
UDSS's outreach functions in these
areas.
(i) Percent increase in revenue
generation per town.
End of project
Note: During the project restructuring exercise, performance and impact indicators were identified and
included as part of the final restructured project proposal to enable effective monitoring and evaluation.
However, given the age of the project, the total absence of any kind of baseline data to evaluate project
impact, and the implementing agency's (UDSS) limited capacity, it was agreed both between the
Government and IDA that it would riot be practical or feasible to evaluate project impact with any degree
of detail. Project outputs, however, could be measured against realistic set targets which would give at
least some indication of the result of project activities and can be used as proxies for impact of the
investments. Subsequently, a couple of M&E reports were submitted by the UDSS to IDA in 1998.
Thereafter, due to staff attrition (given that the project was due to close in June 1999) and attendant
severe capacity constraints, no further reports were submitted. Annex 9 of this ICR, however, provides
details on physical implementation indicators by key project component in terms of targets envisaged at
appraisal and what was completed at project completion
22



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 2
Project Costs and Financing
23



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US $million      US $million
.Land Compensation                                 0.05                              0%
:Housing                                           6.37             2.38            37%
:Sites and Services                                0.92             0.09            10%
Municipal Infrastructure                           5.46             4.96            91%
IEquipment and Vehicles                            1.27              6.66           523%
Water Supply                                      16.18             18.06           112%
E]mployment Support                                7.00             9.17            131%
Institutional Support                              6.11             5.98            98%
Total Baseline Cost                               43.37            47.30            109%
P'hysical Contingencies                            3.07
IPrice Contingencies                               6.48
Total Project Costs                 52.92             47.3            89%
Total Financing Required                  52.92             47.3            89%
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category        ICB         NCB          Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                        20.1         7.4                                   27.5
(14.3)       (5.0)                                 (19.3)
2. Goods                        3.7                                                 3.7
(3.7)                                              (3.7)
3. Services                                               6.4                       6.4
(5.1)                    (5.1)
4. Housing Development          1.8                       6.4                       8.2
(1.8)                    (4.3)                     (6.1)
5. Employment Support                                     7.0                       7.0
(6.0)                    (6.0)
6. Land Compensation                                      0.1                       0.1
(0.0)
Total                        25.6         7.4          19.9                      52.9
(19.8)       (5.0)        (15.4)                   (40.2)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes minor works, goods, consulting services, training, technical assistance services.
24



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category        ICB         NCB          Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                        3.8          4.2          0.5                       8.4
(3.2)       (3.4)         (0.3)                    (6.8)
2. Goods                        16.6         0.7          4.5                      21.7
(15.9)      (0.6)         (4.4)                    (20.8)
3. Services                                               6.0                       6.0
(5.6)                    (5.6)
4. Housing Development                       0.7           1.3                      2.0
(0.5)        (1.0)                    (1.5)
5. Employment Support                                     9.2                       9.2
(7.3)                    (7.3)
6. Land Compensation                                                                0.0
(0.0)
Total                        20.4          5.5         21.4                      47.3
(19.1)      (4.4)        (18.5)                    (42.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2/ Includes minor works, goods, consulting services, training, technical assistance services.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component          Appraisal Estimate     Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank  Govt.  Cofin-   Bank  Govt. Confin-  Bank  Govt.  Cofin-
ancier                  ancier                 ancier
Land Compensation             0.07                     0.0                    0%
Housing               6.10    2.10             1.88    0.50            31%    24%
Sites and Services    0.72    0.46             0.09    0.0             13%    0%
Municipal             4.28    1.88             3.97    0.99            93%    53%
Infrastructure
Equipment/ Vehicles    1.64    0.0             6.50    0.16           396%
Water Supply          16.36   4.70            16.60   1.46            101%   31%
Employment Support    6.0    1.0               7.34    1.83           122%   183%
Institutional Support    5.10    2.49          5.58    0.40           109%   16%
Total Project Costs    40.20   12.70          41.96   5.34            104%   42%
25



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 3
Economics Costs and Benefits
26



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
A.   Sites and Services Components (Housing)
Economic Rates of Return for Housing Development
Project Towns                 Appraisal                     Actual
Ambo                                    16%                         N/A
Arisi Negele                                                        N/A
Assela                                  15%                         N/A
Goba-Robe                              14%                          N/A
Mizan-Teferi                            12%                         N/A
Shashemene                             15%                          N/A
Wolisso                                14%                          N/A
Ziway                      _                                        N/A
Weighted Average                       14%                          N/A
l.   This component including the housing development represented US$ 7.40 milion or about 17% of
the total base cost. At appraisal, the rental values of dwellings to be constructed under the project were
used as a measure of economic benefits. In the absence of reliable indicators for market rents or prices
from house sales, imputed rental values based on prices paid for local hotel rooms adjusted to exclude
taxes and duties and estimated inflation costs, including opportunity cost of land were used. A total of
540 housing units for existing low income residents of the towns 85% of whom earning Birr 300 per
month was planned. However, construction of the housing units was terminated because the houses were
"found to be expensive to cater for the intended beneficiaries due to escalation of cost of construction and
because of high interest rate ... continuation of these housing units could not be economically". At
restructuring, all the 540 contractor-built houses under this project component were handed over to the
regional government on as-is basis to be administered by the municipal governments of the project towns.
And the construction of self-help houses was altogether discontinued. As of to-day, no benefit has
accrued from the investment as the housing construction has not been completed. The economic rate of
return on the investment is therefore negative.
B. Market Place Improvement Component
Economic Rates of Return for Market Improvement
Project Towns                 Appraisal                     Actual
Ambo                                   29%                          N/A
Arisi Negele                           33%                          N/A
Assela                                 42%                          N/A
Goba-Robe                              42%                          N/A
Mizan-Teferi                           31%                          N/A
Shashemene                             13%                          N/A
Wolisso                                 19%                         N/A
Ziway                                   12%                         N/A
WeigktedAverage                       25%                          N/A
27



2.   Physical implementation of the Market Place Improvement component represents about 7% of the
base cost at appraisal and was schedule to be implemented during second phase of the project. During
Restructuring this subproject was not included in the restructured project and therefore not financed under
this project. The ERR is zero.
C.   Water Supply Improvement in Assela and Shashemene Towns
3.   The total cost of water supply component was US$16.18 million at appraisal or 37% of the base
cost of the project. On completion, the total actual investment was US$18.06 million equivalent (Birr
113,024,790). The SAR ERR estimiate for Assela Water Supply scheme was 5%.. However, at appraisal
l:here was no ERR estimate for Shashemene Town Water Supply expansion The post construction
economic rate of return wasjointly estimated as no separate investment costs were heldfor Assela and
3hashemene Water Supply Scheme. The joint ERR was estimated to be (-11%).
Economic Rag'es of Return ofAssela Water Supply Component
Subproject                   Appraisal                      Actual
Assela Town                                               ERR is (-11%) for both Assela
Ef,RRJNPV                    5%                           and Shashemene towns.
Shashemene Town
E,RR/NPV                     Not estimated at appraisal
4.   At appraisal a 39% rise in tar.iffs over 1989-97 was anticipated but this amount did not
materialized. Although, increase in water tariff did occur in Assela (from 1989 average of I .15/m3 to Birr
1 60/m3), the increase occurred much later than anticipated at appraisal. Also costs of construction
increase in Birr faster during implementation (185%). Hovvever, revenue did not increase as fast due to
delays in the implementation of the distribution systems.
5.   With respect to Shashemene, project operation started six years after start of loan disbursement
instead of the expected two years. Also anticipated full utilization of capacity is likely to take about twice
the number of years than the expected at appraisal of 10 years. Increase in tariff was also delayed
increasing from 1999 average of 1.12/m3 to Birr 1.25/m3.
6.   These factors explains the low re-estimated ERR of (-11 %). The low re-estimate is still optimistic
since it assumes that the shortage of water meters will be resolved immediately and the expected
improvement in distribution loss of 15% will be sustained over the life of the project.
Financial Rate of Return
7.   The financial rate of return for Assela and Shashemene at completion (based on operating revenues
and operating maintenance) is estimated at 3.64%.
28



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 4
Bank Inputs
29



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
Mnth/ear               Count             Specialty           Implementation      Development
Progress          Objective
February, 1987               4    Financial Analyst, Sanitary
Engineer, Farmer, Skytta
May 28 - June 7, 1987        2    Sanitary Engineer, Regional
Development Specialist
September 24 - October 6,    2    Sanitary Engineer, Urban
1987                               Planner
October 4-18, 1988           5    Urban Planner, Sanitary
Engineer, Financial Analyst,
Municipal Engineer,
Employment Generation
Consultant
February 26 - March 3,       1    Financial Analyst
1989
April 16-28, 1989            9    3 Financial Analysts, 2
Water Supply Engineers,
Municipal Engineer,
Regional
Planner/Economist,
Employment Generation
Specialist, Staff
Assistant
l_~-                                                           -
Appraisal: June 27 - July    7    3 Financial Analysts, Water
20, 1989                           Supply Engineer, Municipal
Engineer, Regional
Planner/Economist,
Employment Specialist,
Negotiations: December 13
1989
Foard: March 13, 1990
Effectiveness: October 24,
1 990
October 15-26, 1990          6    Financial Analyst, Sr. Water
Supply Engineer, Municipal
Engineer, Small Business
Specialist, Small Enterprise
Development Specialist,
Small Enterprise Training
Specialist
January 9-11, 1991            1    Municipal Engineer
November 25-December 6,      4    Sr. Urban Planner, Sr. Water
1991                               Supply Engineer, Municipal
Engineer, Financial Analyst,
Small Business Specialist,
Small Enterprise
30



Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
Month/Year              Count             Specialty          Implementation       Development
Progress          Objective
Development Specialist,
Small Enterprise Training
Specialist
March 21-31, 1992            1    Sr. Water Supply Engineer
June 15-July 18, 1992        3    Sr. Urban Planner, Sr.             1                  I
Municipal Engineer,
Financial Analyst
May 12-31, 1993              4    Sr. Urban Planner, Sr.             2                  2
Municipal Engineer,
Financial Analyst, Chartered
Surveyor
October 28-November 12,      3    Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.        2                  2
1993                              Municipal Engineer,
Financial Analyst           _
April 6-22, 1994 (Project    4    Sr. Operations Officer, Sr.
Restructuring Mission)             Municipal Engineer,              NA                 NA
Financial Analyst, Urban
Planner
June 12-22, 1994 (Follow-    I    Urban Planner
up Project Restructuring                                            NA                 NA
Mission)
October 10-21, 1994,         5    Financial Analyst, Sr.
Sanitary Engineer, Young        NA                 NA
Professional, Consultant,
Operations Analyst
November 28-December 2,      2    Sr. Operations Officer,
1994                              Urban Planner
March 16-30, 1995            1    Sr. Sanitary Engineer             U                   S
Mid 1995                     2    Pr. Operations Officer, Sr.        S                 U
Municipal Engineer
January 17-18, 1996          1    Pr. Operations Officer
February 1-13, 1996          1    Sr. Sanitary Engineer
April 24 - May 10, 1996      4    Pr. Operations Officer,            S                  S
Municipal Engineer,
Operations Analyst,
Disbursement Officer
(Resident Mission)
October 14-November 7,       7    Pr. Operations Officer, Sr.        S                  S
1996                              Municipal Engineer, Civil
Engineer, Operations Officer
(Resident Mission), Urban
Transport Specialist, 2
Consultants
February 3-15, 1997          4    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil      S                 U
Engineer, Operations Officer
(RM), Consultant
May 30-June 12, 1997         4    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil      S                 U
Engineer, Operations Officer
(RM), Consultant
August 21-26, 1997           4    Pr. Operations Officer, 2         U                  U
31



Stage of Project Cycle           No. of Persons and Specialty        Performance Rating
MonthlYear              Count            Specialty           Implementation      Development
__________________  _Progress      Objective
Operations Officers (RM),
Consultant
October 20-November 5,      5    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil     U                  U
1997                              Engineer, 2 Operations
Officers (RM), Consultant
May 3-13, 1998              5    Pr. Operations Officer, Civil     U                  U
Engineer, 2 Operations
Officers (RM), Consultant   _
August 4-7, 1998            4    Pr. Operations Officer, 2         U                  U
Operations Officers (RM),
Consultant
November 9-13, 1998         3    Pr. Operations Officer,           U                  U
Operations Officer (RM),
Consultant
May 3-7, 1999               4    Pr. Operations Officer,           U                  U
Municipal Engineer,
Operations Officer (RM),
Consultant
August 2-13, 1999 (ICR       5    Pr. Operations Officer,          NA                NA
Mission)                          Municipal Engineer,
Operations Officer (RM),
Financial Management
________________________ ________  Specialist, Consultant
(1) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              us$ US(,000)
Identification/Preparation             110.9_/                      256.4
Appraisal/Negotiation        =_42.7"                                115.3
Supervision                             195.3                       546.5
ICR                                        4
Total                                   195.3       _               918.2
1]Preparation of this project and the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project (Cr. 216 I-ET) was
done together as originally both projects were one (i.e. the Integrated Urban Development Project).
However, a decision was made to split the project around June 1989 into two such that activities in Addis
Ababa comprised the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project and those in the other urban areas
were subsumed under the Market Towvns Development Project. Project preparation costs, therefore, are
not reflected under the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project but are captured under the
Market Towns Development Project. The total cost of preparing both projects is about US$ 256,400 and
total staff weeks equal 110.9.
21 ]he WPA system has been discontinued therefore number of staff weeks not applicable anymore.
32



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of
Objectives/Outputs of Components
33



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
[X3 Macro policies                            []H [   SU [ ] M [ 3 N [X] NA
IX] Sector Policies                           []H [   SU [ ] M [NJ N [ ] NA
[X] Physical                                  []H []SU  IX]M [3N []NA
IX] Financial                                 [ ]H [ ]SU [ ]M [NN []NA
[X] Institutional Development                 [ ] H [ ] SU [ ] M [N] N [I NA
IX] Environmental                             [ ]H [ ]SU XM [ ]N []NA
Social
LX] Poverty Reduction                    [ ]H []SU [X]M [IN []NA
IX] Gender                               [ ]H [X]SU [XJM [N [ ]NA
LX] Other (Please specify)               [ ]H [ ]SU [ ]M [IN IX] NA
[X] Private sector development                [ ] H [ ] SU [ 3 M [  N IX] NA
[XI Public sector management                  [ ] H [ ] SU [ ] M [NJ N [ I NA
[X] Other (Please specify)                    [ 3 H [ I SU [ 1 M [ 3 N LX] NA
34



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
35



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
((HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
/X] Lending                                                 U
jX] Supervision                                             S
/X] Overall                                                 U
6.2 Borrowerperformance
Rating
IX] Preparation                                             S
IX] Government implementation performance                   U
/X] Implementation agencyperformance                        U
IX] Overall                                                 U
36



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 7       -
List of Supporting Documents
37



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report (No. 8087-ET)
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (No. P-    -ET)
3. Development Credit Agreement, March 30, 1990
4. WSSA Project Agreement, March 30, 1990
.5. AIDB Project Agreement, March 30, 1990
6. HSB Project Agreement, March 30, 1990
7. Restructuring Proposal, June 1996
13. Amendment of the DCA, April 30, 1997
9. Amendment of the AIDB Project Agreement, April 30, 1997
10. Amendment of the WSSA Project Agreement, April 30, 1997
11. Reallocation of Credit Proceeds, August 3, 1998
1]2. Reallocation of Credit Proceeds;, December 17, 1998
I 3. Commercial Plan for the retailing of Water, Assela and Shashemane Water Supply Services,
November 1997, Tropics Consulting Engineers, P.L.C.
14. Assela and Shashemane Water Supply Schemes, Completion Report, November 1998, Mekonen
Muleta Consulting Engineer
15. Study on Impact Evaluation of Micro Enterprise Credit Program, Final Report, June 1999,
ABD-Consult
16. Implementation Completion Report, Main Report, June 1999, Vision Consultancy Pvt. Ltd. Co.
17. Implementation Completion Report, Main Report, October 1999, AKT Consultants
18. Back-to-office Reports with relevant attachments (October 1990 to August 1999)
38



Annex 8. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                    Purpose               Year of Approval           Status
First Urban Development       *  Lower-cost, replicable       1983                 Completed in June
Project (Cr. 1366-ET)            approaches to housing                             1991
including the development of
serviced sites for self-help
house construction in Addis
Ababa for families above the
poverty threshold.
* Upgrading of environmental
conditions and infrastructure
in Addis Ababa for those
families below the poverty
threshold.
* Technical assistance to HSB
to identify and begin to
address key issues associated
with the maintenance of urban
rental housing schemes and
road systems in Addis Ababa.
Addis Ababa Water Supply      *  Expand and improve the       1972                 Completed in
and Sewerage Project (Ln.        water supply network in                           September 1978
818-ET)                          Ethiopia's capital city, so that
water from a recently
constructed reservoir could be
supplied more effectively to
consumers.
*  Install the first stage of a
________   __________________   2 sewerage  system.
39



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 9
Key Implementation Indicators
40



Annex 9. Key Implementation Indicators
Table 1. Water Supply Component: Assela & Shashemene Schemes
Description                                   Unit     Appraisal Restructuring  Implementation
Ctvil Works
Intakes                                   Number        4           4              4
Gravity and rising mains                    km          52          50             52
Conventional treatment plant              Number        2           2              2
Clear water reservoir (500 and I 000m3)  Number         2           2              2
Back wash water reservoir (100 m3)        Number        2           2              2
Service reservoirs (400m3)               Number         2           2              2
Service reservoirs (1000m3)              Number         2           1              2
Pressure breaking tank (10 m3)            Number        2           3              3
Surge tanks (I and 2m3)                  Number         -           -              2
Distribution pipes                          km          62          20             54
Public fountains                          Number       NAP         NAP             52
Auxiliary buildings                       Number        9           12             12
Access road                                 km          -           1.5            1.5
Maximum daily water supply capacity         M3        12,780      12,780         14,400
Electro-mechanical works
Raw water booster pumps                   Number        3           3              3
Clear water booster pumps                Number         2           2              2
Treatment plant equipment                 Number        2           2              2
Contracts
Civil works (contract no. 1)               Sites        2           2              2
Electro-mechanical works (contract no. 2)  Sites        2           2              2
Supply of pipes and fittings               Sites        2           2              2
Others (Project vehicles)                   Number         5           5              5
41



Table 2A. Municipal Infrastructure Component: Region 14 Kebele Upgrading Works
Unit        Planned  Achievement (as
of June 1999)
Description of Works
Upgrading of access roads               Km               33          22.44
Drainage pipeline                       Km               30           23.40
T'oilets                                No.              45          26.00
VVater taps                             No.              31           18.00
F[ard-stands for solid waste bin        No.              41           32.00
Bridges                                 No.               5              3
Table 2B. Municipal Infrastructure Component: Housing Infrastructure
Description               Unit                     Quantity
Appraisal    Restructuring      Actual
Ambo                    No.           100              50                50
Assela                  No.           300             150               150
Goba                    No.           100              50                50
Robe                    No.           100              50                50
Mizan Teferi            No.            80             40                 40
Shashemene              No.           200             100               100
Wollisso                No.           200             100               100
Total                   No.         1,080            540                540
42



Table 2C. Municipal Infrastructure Component: On and Off Site Infrastructure
Description                  Unit                        Quantity
Appraisal     Restructuring     Actual
New Roads                  m2               513            470                  0
Road Upgrading             m2             15,803         12,138             4,998
Drainage on site           ml                 0           7,068                 0
Bridges                    No.                2               0                 0
Off-site Roads             m2                 0          62,219            36,545
On-site Roads              m2                 0          43,777            35,776
Market Unlined Channel     ml             61,830         17,977             8,327
Market Lined Channel       ml             12,500          4,213             1,222
Communal Latrines        Blocks               9              12                 8
Power Supply               ml               100              0                  0
Market Stalls (open)     Unit (5             85             33                28
each)
Market Stalls (covered)  Unit (5             35              15                10
each)
Market Surfacing           m2             12,408         51,600            30,791
Culvert on site            ml                15            321                147
Culvert off site           ml                 0             88                 88
Stream Works               ml             2,000              0                 0
Asphalt road               km                 0            11.9              11.3
Slaughter houses           No.                0              9                  9
43



Table 3A. Employment Enhancement Component: M-cro-e.terprise Loan Disbursement as of June 30,1999
Branch            Number of beneficiary          Total loan                Loan collection                Total Arrears
Towns Coops. Male Female  Total Approved Disbursed  Principal  Interest    Adv.    Total   Unpaid Principal Interest   Total
collected
Ambo             1    47  188   437   625       1,900    1,834      999      101         12    1,113        24      241     20      261
Assela           1    27  167   528   695  661,000  639,530  371,129   56,093           181  427,403  286,173  164,758  17,591  182,349
Awassa          7    91  629  1,556 2,185 4,347,590 4,234,090 3,305,957  335,885      30,404 3,672,246 1,004,432  499,267 21,468  520,734
BahirDar        10   211 1,516  2,669 4,185 14,565,68 14,565,68 10,769,35  956,363   472,099 12,197,81  2,619,739  383,234  15,301  398,535
3        3        1                             3
Debre           3    98 1,213  1,262 2,475 3,172,356 3,172,356 3,117,695  286,619            3,404,314 1,212,160   54,662  1,552   56,214
Markos
Dessie          4   224 1,397  2,725  4,122 6,697,600 6,664,500 4,680,334  615,454    44,321 5,340,109 1,956,612  241 416  16,451  257,867
Diredawa        0      0    00         0       0        0             0        0          0         0        0        0      0        0
Fiche           2    25  153   412   565 1,384,050 1,384,050  972,144  104,337        26,434 1,102,915  388,538   23,454    371   23,824
Goba            2    22  383   717  1,100  613,500  613,500  307,099  110,213                 417,312  334,227  283,976 26,849  310,825
Hosaena         2     12  121   334   455 1,201,900 1,201,900 1,009,762   78,973       1,910 1,090,645   188,854   57,248    280   57,528
Jinmna          3    33  424   475   723 2,225,050 2,225,050 1,612,314  132,325      223,147 1,967,786  434,750   54,416  6,827   61,243
Mekele          7   160 1,568  2,031  3,599 6,488,575 6,488,575 5,663,219  405,813    14,628 6,083,660  781,751   44,562   1,082  45,644
Mettu           2    59  406  1,109  1,515 1,982,700 1,982,600 1,488,602  199,687     25,778 1,714,067  298,206  166,298   1,428  167,726
Nekmte           1    18  142   363   505  678,500  610,650  282,772   98,060             0  380,832         0  327,878  17,054  344,932
Wolliso         2    56  112   968  1,080 1,377,300 1,377,300 1,166,491  107,937      20,719 1,295,103   168,170   42,447    0   42,447
Zeway           5    42  248   777  1,025 3,562,729 3,562,729 2,668,210  201,606     302,357 3,172,173   789,819   25,215   1,423   26,638
D. Berhan       3   196  840  2,949  3,789 4,794,090 4,794,090 3,291,008  410,735     76,905 3,778,648 1,324,952  105,723  5,361  111,084
Total          55  1,321 9,507 19,312 28,643 53,754,52 53,518,43 40,707,08 4,100,20  665,444 46,046,13 11,788,40 2,474,79 133,058 2,607,85
3        7        6        1                    9        7        5               1
44



Table 3B. Employment Enhancement Component: Implementation of SSE Loans
Region           Town              Description           No. in SAR   Actual No. Loan disbursed
Amhara           Debre Berhan      Phase II town in SAR      0            26          3,180,801
Weldia           Phase II town in SAR       0           11            716,158
Bahir Dar        Phase II town in SAR       0            4            375,700
Debre Markos     At implementation          0            5            232,192
Gonder           At implementation          0            3            176,000
Shewa Robit      At implementation          0            4            302,457
Dessie-Kombolcha At implementation          0           11            781,460
Debre Tabor      Phase lI town in SAR       0            0                  0
Bahir Dar        Phase II town in SAR       0            0                  0
Oromia           Wollisso          Phase I town in SAR       9            4             513,548
Ambo             Phase I town in SAR        9           20           2,064,114
Goba-Robe        Phase I town in SAR       12           17           1,932,245
Assela           Phase I town in SAR       10           25           2,468,933
Nekemt           At implementation          0            1             30,000
Assebe Teferi    Phase II town in SAR       0           48           4,808,958
Metu             At implementation          0            1             50,000
Fiche            At implementation          0            1            203,758
Arsi Negele      Phase I town in SAR        9            0                  0
Shashemene       Phase I town in SAR       10            0                  0
Ziway            Phase I town in SAR        9            0                  0
Bedelle          Phase II town in SAR       0            0                  0
Southern Peoples'  Mizan Teferi    Phase I town in SAR       10           16           1,333,989
Arba Minch       Phase II town in SAR       0            1            154,929
Awassa           Phase II town in SAR       0            8            392,238
Tigray           Mekelle           At implementation         0            9            1,590,760
Adwa             At implementation          0            5            706,175
Adigrat          At implementation          0            7            854,986
Axum             At implementation          0            1            136,240
SUMMARY             SAR projects Actual proj.  Loan amount
Phase I towns            78           82           8,312,829
Phase II towns            0           98           9,628,784
Other towns               0           48           5,064,028
Total                    78           228         23,005,641
45



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 10
Studies and Training included in the Project
46



Annex 10. Studies and Training included in the Project
Table 1. Studies Included under the Project
Study                   Purpose as defined at appraisal  Status         Impact of Study
Housing Sector Study    Assessing the housing sector    Completed       Some
strategy and prescribe                         recommendations are
recommendations to the kind of                 being implemented
intervention the Gov't should take             while others are
in the resolution of housing                   awaiting approval.
problems in Urban Ethiopia.
Review & evaluate:
-  housing performance vs.
needs,
-  housing policies, and
- housing-finance
requirements.
Develop sector goals, targets, &
and investment program for
private as well as public sectors.
Study for the development Recommend improvements in     Completed       Recommendations,
of commercial plan for  water retailing in Assela and                   including procurement
Water Supply Schemes    Shashemene water supply                         of goods, are being
schemes                                        implemented
Slaughter Houses Study    To supply hygiene and clean meat  Completed   Slaughterhouses built
Total contract          production to the community of                  on the basis of this
the project towns; protecting                  study.
illegal Slaughtering and
stimulating the economic
activities of the towns.
Future Project Study    Again here, the project study was   On-going    On-going
(RTDP)                  not included in the SAR of 1990
FMCU Consultancy        Installing effective and        Completed       Various financial and
Service                 appropriate changes in the                      accounting manuals
financial and accounting systems               have been introduced,
of municipalities in project Towns             w/shop and Training
was conducted on same
and as a result most of
municipalities in the
Project Town have
substantially improved
their revenue
collections
Road Design Consultancy  Dual purpose of quality assurance  Completed   Basic document for
for Bahir Dar and Awassa  and Cost Estimation of Roads in               further construction of
question                                       civil works
Road Consultancy for    Ensuring that Roads are         Completed       Ensured construction is
Awassa Ring Road        constructed according to                        carried out according
specification and quality                      to designs and
specifications.
Road consultancy for    Ensuring that Roads are         Completed       Completed
Bahir Dar Ring Road     constructed according to
specification and quality
Road Consultancy for    Ensuring that Roads are         Completed       Completed
47



Study                   Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status       Impact of Study
Mekele Ring Road        constructed according to
specification and quality
Design Consultancy      Dual purpose of quality assurance  Completed    Basic document for
Service for Slaughter   and Cost Estimation                             Slaughter house
Houses                                                                  constructions in other
project Towns.
Slaughter house         Ensuring slaughter houses are   Depends on      Ensured construction is
Construction Consultancy  constructed according to      completion of    carried out according
speciflication and quality     slaughter house  to designs and
completion      specifications.
48



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 11
Status of Legal Covenants
49



Aninex 11. Status of Legal Covenants
(as per restructured project)
Section      Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant        Comments
Reference/     Status   Fulfilment  Fulfilment
Covenant Class               Date        Date   L
Development Credit Agreement
2.02(b) / I     C                                  Opening of Special Accounts for    Complied with
MWUD, OWMERDB and DBE.
3.05 / 5        C         06/30/90                 Borrower to establish a Financial    Complied with
Management Consultancy Unit
within MWUD.
3.08 /2         C                                  Borrower to ensure that DBE     Complied with
interest rates conform with terms
of the Letter of Agreement.
3.09/ 3         NC                                 Borrower shall maintain UDSS    Not complied
and provide it with competent staff  with
in sufficient numbers.
3.10 / 3        C          12/31/97                Borrower shall complete Housing   Complied with
Sector Study under TORs
acceptable to IDA.
4.01(a)/ I      C                                  Borrower to maintain records and   Complied with
accounts for Parts A. I
(construction of serviced housing
plots in Project Towns), B
(municipal infrastructure), and E. I
(institutional development for
MWUD) of the Project.
4.01(b) /I      C                                  Borrower to have accounts audited   Complied with
within nine months of end of fiscal
______________   _________  ___year and submit to IDA.
OWMERDB Project Agreement
4.01(a) / I     C                                  RSO to maintain records and     Complied with
accounts for Part C (water supply
in Assela and Shashemane) of the
Project.
4.01(b)/I       C                                  RSO to have accounts audited    Complied with
within nine months of the end of
the fiscal year and submit to IDA.
DBE Project Agreement
2.06/3          C                                  DBE to extend loans to small and   Complied with
micro-scale enterpreneurs in
accordance with terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA.
4.01 (a)/ I     C                                  DBE to maintain records and     Complied with
accounts for Parts D (loans to
small-scale and micro-scale
enterprises) and E.2 (institutional
development for DBE) of the
Project.
4.01 (b) / I    C                     ______       DBE to have accounts audited    Complied with
50



Section      Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant        Comments
Reference/     Status   Fulfilment  Fulfilment
Covenant Class               Date        Date
within nine months of end of fiscal
year and submit to IDA.
Action Taken                           Covenant Class
C - Complied With                      1 - Accounts/Audit
CD - Compliance after Delay            2 - Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
CP - Complied with Partially           3 - Flow and utilization of Project funds
NC - Not Complied With                 4 - Counterpart funding
5 - Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6 - Enviromnental covenants
7 - Involuntary resettlement
8 - Indigenous peoples
9 - Monitoring, review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 - Other
51



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 12
ICR Mission Aide Memoire and its Attachments
52



Annex 12. ICR Mission Aide Memoire and its Attachments
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Market Towns Development Project (Credit 2103-ET)
Implementation Completion Review Mission, August 2-13, 1999
AIDE MEMOIRE
I.  Introduction
1.   An IDA team consisting of Mr. Gautam Sengupta (Team Leader), Mr. Yitbarek
Tessema (Operations Officer, Resident Mission), Mr. Negede Lewi (Operations Officer,
Resident Mission), Mr. Eshetu Yimer (Financial Management Specialist, Resident
Mission), Mr. Hamim Magdon-Ismail (Engineer) and Ms. Sudeshna RoyChoudhury
(Consultant) conducted an Implementation Completion Review (ICR) mission in
Ethiopia from August 2-13, 1999 of the Market Towns Development Project (MTDP).
The mission met with officials from the Ministry of Economic Development and
Cooperation (MEDAC); the Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MWUD); the
Urban Development Support Services (UDSS) in MWUD; the Project Implementation
Office (PIO) of the Addis Ababa City Government (AACG); the Environmental
Development Project Office (EDPO) of the AACG, the National Urban Planning Institute
(NUPI), and the Oromiya Water, Mineral and Energy Resources Development Bureau
(OWMERDB). This aide memoire summarizes the mission's main findings and
recommendations. The mission would like to gratefully acknowledge the co-operation
and assistance extended by all the officials during its visit.
2.   Mission Objectives: The main objectives of the mission were to: (i) explain about
the Bank's requirement for the Government's contribution to the ICR; (ii) agree on the
plan for the future operations of the project to ensure sustainability of investments
financed under the credit; and (iii) elicit views of various stakeholders on the project.
II. Background
3.   The Market Towns Development Project became effective in October 1990. In June
1992 the credit agreement was amended to transfer about SDR 3.6 million, originally
allocated for the Second Phase towns, for essential equipment required for emergency
rehabilitation of water supply systems in three northern regions not originally included in the
project. This activity was carried out under the Emergency Recovery and Rehabilitation
Programme (ERRP). Furthermore, the change in government and the policies and priorities
that it set for the transition period called for firther restructuring. This was done in July
1996 (see paras. 7-11 below). The original project objectives were not changed during
the restructuring but some priorities within project components were re-ordered, some
project components were eliminated, some new elements added and the credit closing
date was extended by two years. In August 1998, a reallocation of credit proceeds was
53



undertaken (see para. 12). Again, the reallocation did not change the project objectives,
no new component was added or deleted and there was no further extension of the
closing date. The reallocation exercise resulted in a shift of funds towards those
components that had a good implementation track record.
A.  The Original Project
4.   The concept for the Market Towns Development Project was initiated during the
implementation of the IDA-financed First Addis Ababa Urban Development Project. It was
planned to promote the efficiency of market towns, selected on the basis of their tradable
agricultural surplus. The MTDP was approved by IDA on March 13, 1990. The project's
total cost was estimated at US$52.9 million, to be financed by an IDA credit of SDR 31.4
million (US$40.2 million equivalent1) and contributions from the Government of Ethiopia
(US$7.5 million) and the project agencies (US$5.2 rnillion).
5.   The main project objectives were to improve basic infrastructure and living conditions
in the project towns and to strengthen the capacity of those institutions which were
responsible for rendering urban services. It was also aimed at supporting the decentralization
(regionalization) process that was being implemented by the new government. The original
project components were:
*  Housing: Construction of 540 housing units and supporting infrastructure in seven
market towns, and building materials to support the construction of self-help housing;
*  Municipal Infrastructure: Construction of new roads and culverts and rehabilitation of
roads, drains and other related civil works; improvement and development of new and
existing markets; construction of slaughterhouses; and provision of vehicles and
equipment;
*  Water Supply: Rehabilitation of water supply facilities under ERRP, and construction
or extension to the existing water supply system in two towns;
e  Employment/Income Enhancement: Loans to small-scale and micro-scale enterprises;
and
*  Institutional Support and Studies. For the Ministry of Urban Development and
Housing (MUDH2) and other project agencies.
6.   The project became effective in October 1990 and implementation progress was
generally satisfactory for the first two years of implementation. In June 1992 the credit
agreement was amended to transfer SDR 3,582,000 originally allocated for the Second
Phase towns towards acquisition of vehicles, equipment, materials and spare parts for
emergency rehabilitation of water supply systems in three northern regions not originally
included in the project. This activity was carried out under the Emergency Recovery and
Rehabilitation Programme.
1 Currently about US$44 million equivalent.
2 Now the Ministry of Works and Urban Development (MWUD)
54



7.   However, implementation of the project virtually came to a standstill during 1993,
1994 and early 1995 largely as a result of the overall transition in the country. Rapid
changes in institutional responsibilities and arrangements, frequent changes in key project
staff and uncertain and evolving economic policies of a government in transition contributed
to poor project implementation. While the new government accepted and supported the
fundamental objectives of this project, it decided, however, to conduct a review of the
emphasis and implementation arrangements of the project, in light of the changes in the
economic, political and administrative environment. The government established two
governing principles for restructuring the project: (a) to redirect project activities in a way to
maximize the benefits to the poor by improving access to basic services; and (b) to
strengthen management, financial and technical capacity of service delivery/implementing
agencies to improve efficiency and sustainability of investments.
B.  Project Restructuring
8.   The restructuring of the project was initiated in early 1994. However, it was only in
December 1995 that the project implementing agencies and IDA agreed, at a working level,
on a general framework for restructuring, as well as a revised implementation schedule.
Following this general agreement, however, there was a lengthy delay while the
Government and IDA tried to come to an agreement on difficult policy and implementation
arrangement issues. These were finally resolved and the formal restructuring proposal
(Project Restructuring Proposal) was submitted by the Government and agreed with IDA in
June 1996. Eventual formalization of the restructuring and the amended legal agreements
was concluded in April 1997.
9.   Throughout all these changes the broad objectives of MTDP were maintained.
However, the manner of its implementation was amended to reflect the executive roles of
the new regional states. Furthermore, the need to accommodate other regions in addition to
the original project areas extended the magnitude of the project coverage. The new roles of
central government agencies and institutions in providing support services to regional self-
governments also changed the implementation procedure. Also, the economic policies of the
new government needed to be reflected in the restructured project. In addition, changes had
taken place in world currency markets that affected the amount of the credit remaining
under the credit agreement. Therefore, though project objectives were not changed, some
priorities within the project components were re-ordered, some project components were
eliminated, and some new elements added.
10.  The primary objectives of the restructuring were: (i) to realign the project in a
manner consistent with the new Government's policies and priorities; and (ii) to direct
financial and technical resources to those activities which would have the most
development impact. In keeping with the Government's policy, funds originally allocated
for "contractor built" housing and for the Phase Two towns were redirected towards
improving municipal infrastructure and equipment, and towards strengthening the capacity
of the ongoing Phase One towns in order to focus and consolidate the efforts under the
project. While the IDA credit amount of SDR31.4 million remained the same, the total
revised project cost increased by about US$2.9 million, primarily due to increased emphasis
55



on capacity building in the project towns (mostly financed by the Government). The above
shifts also reflected the following: (a) the government's policy to disengage from direct
housing construction; (b) expanding the scope and coverage of improvements in basic
municipal infrastructure in the original 9 project towns, 8 of which now belonged to one
region, the Oromia Region; (,c) inclusion of 7 additional towns to accommodate the needs of
other regions; (d) a strong ernphasis on capacity, particularly financial management, of the
project towns; and (e) employment generation through availing of income expanding
activities and creation of employment through large civil work programs.
11.  The restructuring process took over two years to be completed, to ensure full
ownership of both the Central Government and various involved Regional Governments.
The original credit closing date of June 30, 1997 was extended by two years to June 30,
1999 during the restructuring, to allow adequate time to complete all project activities.
C.  Reallocation of Credit Proceeds
12.  After project restructuring, overall implementation progress was fairly satisfactory.
A detailed project component specific analysis (including planned activities and
disbursement projections) was done during an IDA supervision mission in May 1998 in
order to reach closure on the exact completion cost and implementation timetable of each
project component. Agreernent was reached in principle with the Government on the
amounts to be reallocated amongst project components taking into account the
development priorities of the towns and the need for completing activities by the project
closing date of June 30, 1999. The reallocation did not change the project objectives, no
new component was added or deleted, and there was no further extension of the credit
closing date. Substantively, the reallocation was aimed at shifting funds towards those
components which had a good implementation track record and potential for high
development impact. The major budget shift among components concerned an increase of
about SDR 1.85 million for the micro-scale enterprises component by primarily reducing
allocations from various components for purchase of goods and equipment.
III. Project Implementation Status
13. Attachment 1 summarizes the status of implementation of the various project
components at the credit closing date of June 30, 1999.
14. Site Visits: The IDA mission conducted site visits to some of the market towns that
benefited from investments under the credit. The main findings from these site visits are
as follows:
(i) Ziway Municipality: The rnission saw the following : (a) Municipal equipment: The
mission was informed that of the equipment received by the municipality, the Hino truck
specially adapted to transport meat from the slaughterhouse is not yet in operation as it
has been awaiting issuance of license plates for the past three months. The mission noted
that it is important that vehicles and equipment received by towns are commissioned
56



without delay and effectively used for the purposes intended. The mission was informed
that the Financial Management Support Services (FMSS) component had helped the
accounts department of the municipality to set up a system to track the costs of operation
and maintenance of its vehicles and equipment. (b) Municipal Road: The mission also
visited the Municipal Road (a main road) that was constructed in Ziway and was
informed that it has benefited the residents considerably in terms of improved
accessibility. The mission pointed out that the maintenance of this road should be
amongst the town's top priorities given its significance. (c) Market Stalls: The mission
also visited Ziway's main open air market and saw that the four covered market stalls and
the four open market stalls financed under the credit are complete and are being fully
utilized.
(ii) Arsi Negele: The mission saw the stone-pitched storm-water drain along the main
road and noted that the construction quality was good. However, certain sections of the
drain are not being maintained. Weeds and grass were observed to have set in. The
mission was informed that the community benefiting from this drain had undertaken the
responsibility to maintain the drain. The mission pointed out that the municipal
authorities should sensitize the community on the need to keep all sections of the drain
free of obstruction and clean it regularly so as to ensure the sustainability of the
investment.
(iii) Shashemane Water Supply Scheme: The mission visited the following: (a) Water
Treatment and Storage Facility: The facility in Shashemane town has been completed
and is functioning well. However, the system is running well below capacity as a
substantial section of the targeted beneficiaries have not yet received connections. The
utility, at the current level of resources, can only provide about 500 water connections a
year whereas the current demand is for about 5,000 connections. This situation has to be
addressed urgently in order to maximize the benefits of the investment and at the same
time meet consumer demand. In addition, the bulk water meter required at the supply
station is also not available as it is waiting for customs clearance. The mission also noted
that the full capacity of the reservoir at the station could not be utilized because of a
difference with the treated water outlet level from where it flows to the reservoir by
gravity. This was a design error which should have been corrected during construction
especially as the same consultant who did the design work was also supervising the
construction. (b) Intake Site: The mission noted that the intake has been completed and is
functioning well. The buildings and surroundings in the site are well maintained. Three
pumps (50% standby) have been installed, peak demand requires the services of two
pumps. Currently, only one pump works at any given time due to the low demand (as
few connections to households, etc. have been provided) and the three pumps are
operated in rotation so that the normal wear and tear is evened out amongst the three.
(iv) Awassa Municipality: The mission visited the following: (a) The Awassa Town Road:
This is the main connector road in Awassa (single carriageway changing into a dual
carriageway at the town center) which was recently completed. The mission noted that
the construction quality is good and the road is functioning well and has eased traffic
congestion to a large extent. The mission was informed, however, that some of the areas
57



in the road have been subject to ponding. This is because the required regular curb
openings could not be provided as the side drains in certain sections are too shallow to
accommodate the water volune. In some other sections the contractor has already begun
breaking the curbstones in order to provide for the drainage openings. This situation
could have been avoided if more attention to detail had been paid during the design
phase. The main problem in Awassa, however, is the threat of overflow from the rising
levels of Lake Awassa into the low-lying town. Consequently, Awassa's future is greatly
dependant on an appropriate resolution of this macro drainage problem. (b) Municipal
Equipment: The municipality has put to good use the new municipal equipment received
through the project. It is also hiring out the equipment on a competitive basis, during idle
time. All the new equipment is maintained regularly by the supplying agents. The
mission suggested that the municipal authorities should open a separate escrow account
into which adequate monies are put by in order to cater for future operations and
maintenance costs. (c) Slaughterhouse: The construction of the slaughterhouse has been
satisfactorily completed.  However, the installation of the over head crane and
commissioning is yet to hap-pen thus preventing the effective use of the facility. On the
construction quality, the mission noted that the plinth levels of the slaughterhouse
building could have been better chosen. Also, given that this and the other buildings are
at the foot of a hill, the rush of storm-water could be problem unless the issue of drainage
is attended to. The mission was informed that the municipality is taking measures to
divert the rain water. (d) FAISS Component: With regard to the FMSS component, the
FMSS outreach team from the UDSS assisted the municipality in building the capacity of
its accounts department. As a result, the department's revenue collection function has
improved considerably which has resulted in substantial increases in tax revenue. For
instance, in FY1998/1999 an increase to Birr 478 million from the Birr 2.3 million
collected in FY1997/98 was recorded. The tax payer register has also increased to 13,000
from 9470 in 98/99 alone. On the expenditure side actions have already been taken to
limit operating costs to 22%N of revenue so that the rest can be earmarked for much
needed capital investment. The accounts department was also assisted by FMSS in
preparing realistic budgets. These will now be the basis upon which the municipal
authorities will formulate long, medium and short term development plans.
During all of the site visits the mission focused on the importance of ensuring the
sustainability of all the investments financed under the credit which includes forward
planning for their upkeep, maintenance and operational management systems and
timely budget allocation.
15. Assela Water Supply Scheme: During discussions, the mission was informed that
there is a potentially dangerous situation developing with regard to the Assela water
supply scheme. Due to recent geological movements, there has been a large landslide
near the reservoir which could reach the reservoir in two years time. Also, a big overflow
has caused erosion near the reservoir. Given that the mission did not have enough time to
visit Assela, the mission urged the UDSS to have its ICR consultants undertake a site
visit and make detailed observations on the situation obtaining there and inform IDA.
58



16. Payments after Credit Closing Date: The mission informed the Government that
reimbursements from IDA would be made only for those goods, works and services
received and/or completed before the credit closing date of June 30, 1999 and such
expenditures would be paid from the credit proceeds for a period up to four months after
the credit closing date, i.e., through October 31, 1999.
17. Payments for Retention Monies: IDA has agreed with the Government that it
would be eligible for reimbursements against retention monies to be paid to relevant civil
works contractors and suppliers of goods during the maintenance/defects liability period
against an acceptable bank guarantee received from such contractors/suppliers.
Attachment 2 summarizes the agreed list of contractors/suppliers, amount of retention
money to be paid against acceptable bank guarantee, and the duration of the
maintenance/defects liability period.  The mission advises the Government that
reimbursements from IDA would be made against the agreed amounts of retention
money only through October 31, 1999. The Government should, therefore, conclude
these transactions and submit the necessary reimbursement requests as soon as
possible. As the fund in the special account has been depleted, direct payment
applications will be submitted to IDA by UDSS with a copy of acceptable bank
guarantee.
IV. Views of Stakeholders
18. The mission solicited the views of various stakeholders on project implementation
experience with respect to some of the major components. The following highlights
some of the key observations of various stakeholders on the following project
components.
(i) FMSS
*  In general, the FMSS component provided training and supplied the appropriate
financial procedures manual and relevant forms to build the capacity of the
accounting departments in the project towns resulting in substantially increased
revenue collection, more accurate tax payer registers resulting in increased number
of tax payers, simplified procedures for efficient and timely services to tax payers,
better expenditure management, etc.
*  FMSS also helped set up systems to track costs of operation and maintenance of
vehicles and equipment provided under the project to the project towns.
*  The towns considered FMSS to be a very useful outreach function that had been
provided by the Central Government and expressed the desire to see it continued.
*  Measures are being taken by FMSS to establish a regional FMSS unit in the
respective Regional Bureaus of Works and Urban Development to help in
sustaining and further strengthening of the new system.
59



(ii) Loans for Micro Scale Enterprises
* This component was highly successful in terms of its development impact. It
benefited the poorer segments of the population, in particular women, in terms of
improving their income/asset base.
(iii) Municipal Infrastructure and Equipment
* Inputs through the roaLds, slaughterhouses, equipment, etc. are having a positive
impact in improving the quality of services and coverage.
(iv) Assela and Shashemane WFater Supply Schemes
* The physical investments are important but without changing the policy environment
and management structLre of these water utilities, it is difficult to ensure their efficient
operation and achieve optimum development impact of the investments.
(v) Kebele Upgrading
*  The component which espoused community participation and involvement in upgrading
activities has increased the awareness within AACG for the need to do community
consultation in order to ensure ownership and sustainability of the investments.
*  The capacity of the EDPO, the implementing agency, needs to be strengthened and its
institutional structure needs to be reorganized to be more efficient in delivering these
programs.
  Funds flow mechanisms and procurement processes need to be streamlined and
shortened.
*  In the future, woredas will be involved in the actual execution of the program whereas
EDPO concentrate on the design and supervision aspects.
(vi) Institutional Development Component- NUPI
3 Staff training and provision of modem engineering instruments for NUPI has resulted
in considerable improvement in its efficiency manifested by an increase in surveying
output from 1 hec./day to 10 hec./day.
V.  Key Observations of thle Mission
19.  Overall, the project appears to have achieved its objective of accomplishing the
intended physical targets. Implementation experience of the project has helped raise the
level of awareness amongst those involved in its execution in terms of the complexity of
issues involved in planning, design and implementation of basic infrastructure
improvement programs.
20.  Specifically, the project contributed towards building the core capacity in the
project coordinating agency, the UDSS, which can provide the nucleus for supporting
similar programs. In general, however, the project has not been able to achieve one of
the key objectives of institutional development and broader capacity building in the
60



project agencies. This is an issue which will take much longer to resolve, well beyond the
life of the project. In particular, the mission notes the following:
(i) The project objectives and the development imperatives did not get fully incorporated
into the mainstream policies and programs of the various Regions and municipalities. In
a sense the project worked as an enclave operation without having many of the benefits
accrue to these sub-national governments as a whole.
(ii) The project was unable to significantly influence fundamental policy reforms,
program formulation, prioritization of investments and related financial management and
implementation issues within these sub-national governments. However, the project did
help raise awareness of the importance of these issues and in this context, the
Government has already approached the Bank for assistance on an operation which will
help to address these issues within the overall context of political, administrative, fiscal
and functional decentralization in the country.
(iii) It is not self evident, based upon the implementation experience of this project, that
the Bank has a comparative advantage in financing and supervising small individual sub-
projects. Given the high transaction costs of such an approach, the Bank should
concentrate on assisting the client in building its capacity to effectively and efficiently
manage the project implementation process. Experience indicates that the Bank should
be less involved in "managing" the implementation process and be more of a "financier"
and a "catalyst" to support building up the client's management capacity.
(iv) In the Government's attempt to adjust the project to the changed circumstances
arising out of the regionalization process, the project proved to be a useful vehicle to
define and deliver the development programs in a demand-responsive manner-a concept
which was not built into the original project design.
(v) The FMSS component, though small (US$500,000), was one of the more successful
components under the project in that the project towns benefited in terms of improved
financial management practices and revenue mobilization aspects. The implementation
experience of FMSS clearly indicates the potential benefits of scaling up such an activity
not only for the above mentioned benefits but more importantly because it has
contributed towards providing sub-national governments with the tools necessary for
making better/informed management decisions and policies. In addition, the way the
FMSS was developed and delivered provides an interesting model for outreach functions
from the Central Government to the sub-national governments.
VI. Plan for Future Operations of the Project
21. Attachment 3 is a plan for future operations of the major components financed
under the project. This plan was developed and agreed to between the mission and the
UDSS and represents what is considered to be essential to ensure sustainability of the
61



investments. However, a firm commitment from the various Regions and municipalities
to undertake the activities proposed under the plan is still to be received.
22.  Given that most of the investments under the major project components are the
direct responsibility of the various Regions and municipalities, it would be necessary for
thern to make explicit budgetary allocations as indicated in the plan. Consequently,
whether or how much funds are actually made available for operations and maintenance
would depend upon the overall financial resources of these Regions and municipalities
and their applications.
VII. Schedule of Preparation of ICR
23. The mission held discussions with the UDSS and its consultants on the ongoing
analytical work required to prepare the Govermment's contribution to the ICR. It was
agreed that the UDSS will finalize and submit its contribution to the ICR by October 10,
1999. IDA will make available the draft of the full ICR for the Government's comment
within two weeks of receiving the Government's contribution to the ICR, i.e., October
26, 1999. It has been agreed that the Government will provide its comments on the draft
within two weeks, i.e., by November 5, 1999. IDA will make available the final draft
ICR for the Government's comments within two weeks after receiving the Government's
comments on the initial draft, i.e., by November 19, 1999.
Gautam Sengupta
Team Leader, MTDP/SAAP/DSP
The World Bank
62



Key Persons Met:
H.E. Ato Girma Birru, Minister, MEDAC
H.E. Ato Haile Assegidie, Minister, MWUD
Ato Gutema Bulcha, General Manager, UDSS/MWUD
Ato Aschalew Aberra, General Manager, PIO/AACG
Ato Kendie Buzuneh, General Manager, EDPO/AACG
Ato Junaidi Sado Chiri, Head, OWMERDB
Engineer Solomon Kasaye, General Manager, NUPI
Ato Bayu Nuru Mohammed, Deputy Bureau Head, OWMERDB
Copies to:
H.E. Ato Girma Birru, Minister, MEDAC
H.E. Ato Haile Assegidie, Minister, MWUD
H.E. Ato Berhanu Tamirat, Vice Minister, MWUD
Ato Gutema Bulcha, General Manager, UDSS/MWUD
Ato Junaidi Sado Chiri, Head, OWMERDB
Engineer Solomon Kasaye, General Manager, NUPI
Ato Aschalew Aberra, General Manager, PIO/AACG
Mr. Nigel Roberts, Resident Representative, The World Bank Resident Mission, Ethiopia
Mr. Surjit Singh, Principal Operations Officer, The World Bank Resident Mission,
Ethiopia
63



Attachment 1
MARKET TOWNS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. 2103-ET)
Project Implementation Status as of June 30, 1999
PROJECT COMPONENT                                                  PHYSICAL TARGETS                           FINANCIAL TARGETS (in USD)
Units       SAR     Restructuring   Reallocation  Executed  SAR         Restructuring   Reallocation  Executed
MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE & HOUSING
Summary of housing & infrastructure         Units           1123           1124          1114        574  10662148         7273809       6730160    3717956
(i) Housing                               Units           1080            1080          1080        540   6892492         4674994      4311331    1451739
(ii) Infrastructure                       Types              43             44            34         34   3769656         2009279       1829293      695600
- New roads                              M2              513            470           470 _
-Road upgrading                          M2            15803          12138          6018       4998
- Drainage on site                       mi. _                         7068              0 _
- Bridges                               Nos.               2               0            0          0
- Off-site roads                         M2         -                 62219         45497      36545
- On-site roads                          M2         -                 43777         38208      35776
- Market- unlined channel                mi.           61830           17977        17315       8327
- Market- lined channel                                12500           4213          4137       1222
- Communal latrines                    Blocks                             12                                                                   __ __
- Power supply                          Nos              100 _            .                        0.
- Market stalls (open)               Units/5 each    v425          _     165         10          140
- Market stalls (covered)            Units/5 each        175             75            50         50
- Market surfacing                       M2     M      12408          51600         43868      30791
- Culvert on site                        Ml               15            321           147        297
- Culvert off site                       Ml                               88           88         88
Stream works                            mI             2000         _    0                        0
- Phase II towns roads-                 Kms.       _-_                                10.9       11.3                  2267300       3528402    3535746
- Slaughterhouses                       Towns                              9                            _ 9              559000      1277852      692456
KEBELE UPGRADING, ADDIS                                                                                                     1078000      11 3281      358174
ABABA
64



PROJECT COMPONENT                                                   PHYSICAL TARGETS                            FINANCIAL TARGETS (in USD)
Units       SAR     Restructuring   Reallocation  Executed  SAR          Restructuring   Reallocation  Executed
Cummunal latrines                            Nos                                             45         26 -                                101017        30720
Solid waste containers                       Nos                                             41         32-                                   5817         3873
Public water points                          Nos                    _ _                      31         18                                    6932         1897
Access raods                                 Kms                               29            33       22.5 -                   590528       558244       359908
Drainages                                    Kms                               119           30       234-                    465157        439701        26799
3ridges                                      Nos            ~~I                              5           3-                    22315         21099       13811
ASSELA & SHASHEMANE WATER                   Sites              2               2             2          2   7803048          3360000       2704000    2586582
SUPPLY SCHEMES
GOODS_
unicipal equipment phase I                  Nos.               2                            14          14   2738212         2875709        960446      904526
Municipal equipment phase II                Nos.               _              31            36         40           0        3333766       3333766    3646691
Slau    seve ic les   -           _          Nos               _27                          25         25-                    507577        507577      521052
Capacity building equips. _1117                                                            945X    944             _         1193458        704334      704334
lUDSS & Capacity building vehicles           Nos.               0              31            35         35          0          350745    414523.75   501046.75
MI cro scale support
4SE publications                     --~Pubfic-.       _    -     ~      -  300           286        286 -                    12932         12932        2652
MSE equipmen-ts                               Nos.44                                        38         38 -                    18239         18239       63394
MffE furniture                              Nos.                             744           691         167 -                   18766         19255        7319
NUPI/CUP equipments                         Items              24              30            30         23    632800           717900       717900       413017
HASIDA vehicles and equipments        ___ 24                                   19_           19         1           0        159304.6      159304.6    161636.6
DBE Vehicles & equip.                        Nos.              12              12            12         12    173900           137500        142000      142000
CBB Vehicle & equipmens                      Nos.              19               8             8          8    348000           172120        172120      172120
Water supply goods                         Various       Various Various          Various       Various      6172787         11202150      8235750    8109132
Pipe & fittings                            Various       Various Various          Various       Various       673212         6269200       5188300    5055947
Electro-mechanica                            Nos.               2               2                        2   2447575         4200000       2528500    2535261
Project vehicles                             Nos.               5               5             5          5      77000          140000        76000        76000
CONSULTANCIES
Consultancy, design & studies          Stud.,cons, super        4              16            18         18   2795396         4168088       3622891    2801752
CSL Studies                                 Study               1               I             I          1    372000           463960       463960       338655
65



PROJECT COMPONENT                                                  PHYSICAL TARGETS              I          FINANCIAL TARGETS (in USD)
Units      SAR    Restructuring   Reallocation  Executed  SAR         Restructuring   Reallocation  Executed
Slaughterhouse study & consultancy         Towns                             9             9          9 -                  151085       151085      146167
Housing sector study                       Study              2                      1                1    450000          680400       680400      430000
Fu-tureplir-ojectst1 d  Study                                                                         I   1000000          400000       400000       30000
Road design & consultancy              Study &super.                         3             3          3 -                  438433       438443      438443
Waterconsul1Super                 1            3          3          973396  2 034200   1489003    1418487
TRAINtNG                                  Trainees           39            543           580        743   1448050         1856688      1723342    1563678
MSE & SSE LOANS
MSE Loans                                Benef./ind.      15000          62357         62357     43381    882000          4769800      4769800    4859519
SSE ~Loans-                                Enter.          i157            245           245-               54000         2758000      2758000    2475646
UDSS OPERATING COSTS                                                                                   |   883000|         546000       546000      503238
66



Attachment 2
Schedule of Retention Money to be Released Prior to 31, October, 1999
Against Bank Guarantee for Defects Liability
FINAL CONTRACTAMOUNT             FINAL RETENTION         Provisional Date    Date of
(in Birr)                AMOUNT (5%X)             of End of       Actual
Sr.    Contract No. &        Contractor's                                            (in Birr)          Defects Liability  Payment of
No       Description           Name             IDA (70%)      Gov. (30%)    IDA (70%)    Gov. (300%)       Period       Retention
1   Mekele Road                                6,702,512.66    2,872,504.43    335,126.00   143,625.00    June 30, 2000
Project No.
UDSS 1/97
2    Awassa Road                               4,583,569.33    1,964,386.86    229,178.46   98,219.34   May 31, 2000
Project No.
UDSS2/97
3    Bahir Dar Road                            6,602,301.00    2,829,557.00    330,115.00   141,478.00    June 30, 2000
Project No.
UDSS 3/97
4    Slaughterhouse                            1,212,769.52     519,758.36     60,638.47   25,987.92    June 30, 2000
Construction of
Arbaminch, Butajira
& Awassa (pack. 1)
No. UDSSI/98-1
5    Slaughterhouse                              799,954.99     342,837.85   39,997.75     17,141.89     May 31,2000
Construction of
67



FINAL CONTRACTAMOUNT             FINAL RETENTION          Provisional Date    Date of
(in Birr)                AMOUNT (5/)              of End of      Actual
Sr.     Contract No. &       Contractor's                                             (in Birr)          Defects Liability  Payment of
No       Description            Name            IDA (70%)      Gov. (30%)     IDA (70%/)    Gov. (30%/)      Period        Retention
Baher Dar &
Motta (pack. 2)
No. UIDSS 1/98-2
6    Slaughterhouse                              698,489.19      299,352.5i     34,924.46     14,967.63    June 30, 2000
Construction of
Axum & Adigrat
(Package 3)
No. UDSS 1/98-3
7   Slaughterhouse                               459,400.22      196,885.81    22,970.02       9,844.29    June 30, 2000
Constructiorn of
Haik & Maichew
(Package 4)
UDSS 1/98-4
8   Slaughterhouse                             1,054,333.40^   263,583.34     52,706.99     13,176.75     June 28, 2000
Mechanical
equipment
9    Bahir Dar and                               66,268.00-              0       6,626.80            0   June 30, 2000
Awassa Roads
68



FINAL CONTRA CTAMOUNT            FINAL RETENTION          Provisional Date    Date of
(in Birr)                AMOUNT (5%/)              of End of      Actual
Sr.     Contract No. &       Contractor's                                             (in Birr)          Defects Liability  Payment of
No       Description            Name            IDA (70%1)     Gov. (30%)     IDA (70%)    Gov. (30%)        Period        Retention
design
10   Design and                                 252,400.00"              0      18,440.00            0   June 30, 2000
Consultancy
services for 9
Slaughterhouses
TOTAL   22,431,998.31    9,288,866.16    1,130,723.95   464,440.82
IDA financing ratio is 80% ( Cat. 2c vi )
IDA financing ratio is 100% ( Cat. 3A) and the percentage retained is different from that of the civil works.
69



Attachment 3
WATER SUPPLY SCHEMES
Operation and Maintenance Budget
(In Birr)
Component Description                   1998/1999    1999/2000  2000/2001    2001/2002 onwards
Expenditure  Expenditure  Expenditure     Expenditure
I. Water Supply Schemes
(i) Assela Water Supply Scheme
Power                                   Completion     98,924         120,824             144,321
Treatment Chemicals                                   386,044         417,135             450,496
Maintenance ( building and surroundings)*         _                                        19,024
Maintenance and operation (vehicles and                44,472          50,314              58,100
equipment)
Staff cost                                               533,371      560,040             588,042
Total                                                1,062,816       1,148,313          1,259,983
(!) Shashemane Water Supply Scheme
Power                                   Completion    525,436         564,377             606,179
Treatment Chemicals                         '         383,314         413,025             444,919
Maintenance (building and surroundings                   -                                 19,024
Maintenance and operation (vehicles and                109,503        117,838             128,305
equipment)                                        _
Staff cost                                            533,371         560,040             588,042
Total                            =                   1,551,624       1,655,280          1,786,469
* Maintenance costs incurred every three years.
70



Attachment 3
MUNICIPAL EQUIPMENT
Operation and Maintenance Budget
(In Birr)
Component Description              1998/1999              1999/2000    2000/2001 onwards
Units   Expenditure  Expenditure     Expenditure
II. Municipal Equipment
(i) Bahirdar Equipment List                6      Nil          500,000             550,00
(ii) Awassa Equipment List                 6      Nil           500,000            550,)0C0
(iii) Mekele Equipment List                5      Nil           650,000            720,000
(iv) Dire Dawa Equipment List              3      Nil           350,000            400,000
(v) Ziway Equipment List                   2       100,000      110,000            120,000
1     Nil            50,000             60,000
(vi) Butajirra Equipment List               1     Nil            50,000             60,000
(vii) Arba Minch Equipment List             I     Nil            50,000             60,000
(viii) Maichew Equipment List              I      Nil            50,000             60,000
(ix) Mota Equipment List                    1     Nil            50,000             60,000
(x) Haik Equipment List                     I     Nil            50,000             60,000
(xi) Axum Equipment List                    I     Nil            50,000             60,000
(xii) Adigrat Equipment List                I     Nil            50,000             60,000
71



Attachment 3
KEBELE UPGRADING
Opeiration and Maintenance Budget
(In Birr)
Component Description        1998/1999                    1999/2000    2000/2001 onwards
Units     Expenditure     Expenditure      Expenditure
III. Kebele Upgrading in Addis Ababa
(i) Roads and Drainage
- Gravel Roads                23 km   Completed June, 1999
a) Routine Maintenance                                         114,000           120,000
b) Periodic Maintenance                                      Nil              Nil
c) Betterment                                                Nil              Nil
- Pipe/stone paved drains     24km
a) Routine Maintenance                                 Provided under 1 Provided under 1
above          above
b) Periodic Maintenance
(ii) Communal Latrines          26
Clearing and care taking                                        78,000            82,000
(iii) Public Water Points       32
a) Regular maintenance and operation                            96,000           100,000
Total                                                          288,000           302,000
72



Attachment 3
SLAUGHTERHOUSES
Operation and Maintenance Budget
(In Birr)
II
Component                       1998/99             1999/2000        2000/2001
Description              Units  Expenditure     Expenditure         Expenditure
IV. Slaughterhouses
(i) Butajira               I          N/A                 122,540          125,162
(ii) Awassa                1          N/A                 206,445         210,129
(iii) ArbaMinch            1          N/A                  198,127        201,416
(iv) Maichew               I          N/A                  92,144           94,024
(v) Bahir Dar              1          N/A                 225,014         228,917
(vi) Mota                  1          N/A                  92,144           94,024
(vii) Haik                 I          N/A                  31,528           32,103
(viii) Axum                1          N/A                  98,379          100,271
(ix) Adigrat               I          N/A                 150,994          153,594
Total    9                             1,217,315       1,239,640
73



Attachment 3
MUNICIPAL ROADS
Operation and Maintenance Budget
(In Birr)
Component                                               Budget Year
Description          Km.         1998/99           99/2000        2000/2001     2001/2002
V. Municipal
Roads
BAHIR DAR
Routine               4.9    Completion         Maintenance at            25,000        28,000
July, 1999        Contractor's Cost
Periodic              ''                                                Nil           Nil
Total                                                        25,000       28,000
AWASSA
Routine              1.581  May,1999        Maintenance at                13,000        15,000
Contractor's cost
Routine               1.42         ,.                                      7,000         8,000
Periodic               .                                                     Nil           Nil
Total                                                                     20,000        23,000
MEKELE
Routine               3.4   June,1999       Maintenance at                17,000        19,000
Contractor's cost
Periodic                                          _                     Nil           Nil
Total                                                        17,000        19,000
Dual carriage way
74



Market Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Annex 13
Borrower's Contribution to ICR
75



Anntex 13. Borrower's Contribution to ICR
MARKET TOWNS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. # 2103-ET)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY
Introduction
Project Background: Objectives and Changes
The Government of Ethiopia and the World Bank/IDA signed an agreement (No. 2103-
ET) on March 30, 1990 to undertake the Market Towns Development Project (MTDP) in
various towns of the country. The total project cost was estimated at SDR 41.3 million (USD
52.91 million equivalent) out of which SDR 31.4 million (USD 40.2 million equivalent) is the
credit amount.
The objectives of MTDP were: (i) to stimulate the growth and spatial distribution of
manufacturing, commerce and services and the creation of non-farm employment
opportunities; (ii) to bring urban goods and services closer to the rural population; and (iii)
to expand markets for rural produce, thereby indirectly raising agricultural productivity.
The intervention areas were (i) improving basic infrastructure and living conditions in
project towns; (ii) strengthening the capacity of MUDH  (now  MWUD) to assist
municipalities in improving their financial performance and in carrying out their
development programs; (iii) providing assistance to urban service agencies to enable them
carry out their activities more efficiently; (iv) encouraging micro- and small-scale enterprises
to expand employment opportunities and enhance incomes; (v) introducing an experimental
income enhancement/entrepreneurship development program for women; and (vi)
promoting the adoption of sound cost recovery policies and practices. To this end, the
project incorporated five major components, namely, Water Supply, Employment
Generation/Income Enhancement, Municipal Infrastructure, Institutional Support and Sites
and Services component.
The change of Government in 1991 induced restructuring of the project in 1994 to allow
provisions for changes in the government's macroeconomic and sectoral policies while the
objective of the project remained unaltered. In addition reallocations were made in 1997 and
1998. This changed the composition and spatial coverage of the project. Implementing and
collaborating agencies have also been in the process of restructuring during the project's
implementation period.
Complexity of the Project
As an integrated urban development project that has been the first of its kind in the country,
the implementation of the MrTDP has been complex. Activities in all components were
diversified in level and type of design and output. The outputs provided include civil works,
machinery and equipment, income generating loan, training and studies. The geographical
dispersion of the project areas also contributed to the complexity of the project as it was
necessary to make adjustments on the same activity to allow for site specific circumstances.
76



The above situation called for the involvement of various governmental institutions in
financing and supervision as well as private civil work contractors and suppliers in execution.
Extent of Risk in the Project
The SAR identified five areas of risk sources. These were (i) the capacity of implementing
agencies in carrying out such a complex project, (ii) uncertainty of the revenue capacity of
municipalities in order to contribute their share of capital costs, (iii) uncertainty in water
tariff increase, (iv) shortage of building materials for housing, and (v) bureaucratic
procedures and lack of professional skill to implement the micro- and small-scale enterprise
component.
Water tariffs have been revised upwards. The change of the government and subsequent
change in economic policies also eliminated some of the risks identified. These include the
elimination of legal and licensing barriers facing micro- and small-scale enterprises; and
cession of rationing in housing construction materials with liberalization of foreign and
domestic trade. However, lack of professional skill and availability of capacitated civil work
contractors remained binding. The appraisal of the project did not capture the intensification
of the civil war in the country that was there at the time of project preparation. The war was
concluded with the change of the government. This change induced the restructuring of the
project to allow for changes in the government policy and institutional arrangements.
Achievement of Objectives
Physical Objectives
The project has achieved most of its physical targets. The water supply schemes were
implemented in full in Assela and Shashemene towns. However, design problems that
affected capacity utilization and sustainability have been encountered.
Physical achievement of the municipal infrastructure component was satisfactory when the
implementation of most of the activities is considered. The component included the
construction of slaughterhouses, roads and drains, markets, public fountains and toilets and
procurement of municipal equipment and machinery. The upgrading of slum areas in ten
Kebeles of Addis Ababa was included later in the component. The physical achievement of
these activities was partial. In addition design and site selection problems affected some
activities of the component.
Substantial achievement was recorded in the implementation of the micro and small-scale
enterprise loans. The component's achievement exceeded the SAR target both in amount of
loan disbursed and towns covered.
Most of the activities included in the institutional support component such as studies,
training, workshops and technical assistance as well as procurement of vehicles and office
equipment were implemented satisfactorily. The considerable activity in this component is
the financial management support service. This assisted municipalities in project towns by (i)
introducing effective and appropriate accounting systems, (ii) developing techniques and
methods to prepare financial plans and capital budgets, (iii) identifying taxable properties and
services, (iv) reducing possibilities of financial mismanagement.
The project's unsatisfactory physical achievement was observed in the sites and services
component. This component was canceled while restructuring due changes that affected
77



affordability and government's intervention in the sector. At the time of cancellation period
only half (540 out of 1080) of the targeted houses were completed partly.
Financial Objectives/Disbursement
As stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of March 1990, the cost of the
project was estimated at arould 41.3 million SDR (USD 52.91 million). This project cost was
planned to be covered as follows: SDR 31.4 million or 75 percent by IDA, USD 7.5 million
or 14.2 percent by government and the remaining USD 5.2 million or 9.8 percent by the
implementing agencies and project towns. IDA, government, implementing agencies and
project towns have contributed their share of the project cost. The total credit amount
disbursed, as of end of June 1999, is SDR 26.49 million. This represents 84 percent of the
total IDA share of SDR 31.4 million.
Economic Rate of Return
The SAR calculated economic rate of return for sites and services, market stalls (Arsi-Negelle
and water supply schemes (Assela). In this ICR, ERR calculation/estimation comprised
water supply schemes (both Assela and Shashemene), roads constructed in regional towns
and upgrading of slum areas in Addis Ababa. The resuh shows that there are no significant
differences in water supply schemes provided that water meter problems will be corrected
soon. ERR for asphalt roads has been calculated in (different scenarios by changing the level
of traffic density. Traffic volume required at higher level ERR (e.g. 10 percent) are unlikely
to prevail in these towns. The upgrading scheme was calculated indirectly by taking a sample
Kebele from a similar project. The result suggests that the inclusion of this activity while
restructuring was appropriate. ERR for sites and services could not be re-estimated due to
the cancellation of the component after only part of the civil work is completed. For market
stalls only sensitivity analysis is done due to the absence of data and the abandonment of
these structures in some project towns.
Macroeconomic/Sector Policy Improvements
The macroeconomic policy improvement targeted by the project was mitigating the
centralization of economic activity in a primal city through the development of market
centers in other regions. The instrument to this end was the objective of developing market
centers to enhance agricultural productivity in high-potential areas. This objective is the
corollary to the increasingly higher emphasis given to the role of demand-side issues in
enhancing agricultural productivity. This was an innovation within the dominant trend in
supply-side agricultural/rural policy in the country.
The contribution of the project to the practice of this intention was compromised by post-
appraisal fund allocation, which allocated funds to the primal city (Addis Ababa) itself, and
to expensive infrastructure civil works in a few large urban centers (Awassa, Bahir Dar and
Mekelle) which are capitals of regional governments.
Poverty Reduction
Poverty reduction is one of the primary objectives of the project. Almost all components of
the project were of great relevance to poverty reduction objective. Although baseline survey
was not undertaken before implementation, other indicators show that much has been done
to reduce poverty to the extent of the project's coverage. The income generation scheme
implemented in 57 towns by the DBE targeted the poor. Upgrading schemes implemented
78



in Addis Ababa improved the sanitation situation in poor areas. Increased access to safe
water through the Assela and Shashemene water supply schemes will have also substantial
income effect to the lower income groups
Environmental Objectives
The project included several components that could contribute substantially to
environmental improvement. Two components namely, municipal infrastructure and water
supply schemes can be referred in this regard. Under the municipal infrastructure
component of the project, the construction of nine slaughterhouses, public toilets and
drainage lines in various regional towns will have positive contribution to the environmental
sanitation in these areas. In addition upgrading ten Kebeles of Addis Ababa that comprised
the provision of sanitation infrastructure have considerable implication to the environment.
Increased access to safe water through the water supply schemes in Shashemene and Assela
towns will have a bearing on the improvement of environmental sanitation in these two
towns.
Gender and Other Social Objectives
More than 67 percent of the beneficiaries of micro-credit are women. Slum areas upgrading
works being undertaken in Addis Ababa are believed to improve home-based job
opportunities that are primarily women's domain. Women and children are likely to benefit
more than other social groups from increased access to safe water and cleaner environment.
Regarding other social objectives the project included alleviating housing shortage in regional
towns. However, due to the failure of the sites and services scheme this objective is not
achieved.
Readjustment, Resettlement and Dislocation
There was no significant dislocation caused by implementation, and compensation was paid
whenever such occurred. In Addis Ababa, about 150 households residing in private and
government-owned houses were affected. The amount paid in these areas is about Birr
526,000. In addition, compensation has also been paid to utility companies for affected
infrastructure that needed relocation. Disputes with farmers in relation to pipelines of the
water supply schemes were resolved without significant consequences on their livelihood.
Institutional Development
Institutional support comprising training, studies and procurement of machinery, vehicles
and office equipment has been made to implementing agencies, relevant regional bureaus
and municipalities as well as the National Urban Planning Institute (NUPI). Implementing
agencies also acquired experience in managing integrated urban development project.
Particularly, the experience gained from the successful implementation of the micro-credit
scheme is a vital asset.
Public Sector Management Objectives
The Financial Management Support Services (FMSS) established at the UDSS extended
financial management support to improve the awkward financial system of municipalities
found in regional towns. In addition, Regional States have started future project study to
identify the prevailing urban development problems in their own territory. This will improve
the planning capacity of municipalities in the regions to provide adequate urban services.
79



Private Sector Development Objectives
Private sector development was one of the priority areas of action for both IDA and the
Federal Government of EIthiopia. Private contractors have undertaken all contracts.
National/local contractors were involved in civil works and partly in supply of goods. The
availability of road construction and maintenance equipment in the project towns that are far
from the capital encouraged private contractors. Private contractors are using these
machinery and equipment on rental basis form the municipalities in the project towns.
Moreover, the micro and srmall-scale enterprise programs targeted private beneficiaries. The
successful implementation of this component would reflect the achievement of private
sector development.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors outside Government Control
In most cases the performance of civil work contractors has been unsatisfactory. This partly
contributed for the delay in the implementation of these activities.
Some road construction machinery purchased to regional towns could not be shipped from
Assab port because of the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea.
Lengthy nature of the IDA procurement and disbursement process has partly contributed
for the delay of some activilies in all components. This has been, however, mitigated by
helpful interventions by Resident Mission in the later years of implementation.
Factors within the Control of the Government
The restructuring changed the composition of the components, beneficiary groups and
implementing institutions. This adjustment justified extension of the projects completion
period.
With the formation of regional states and the adoption of subsequent steps towards
decentralization a shift in the roles of organizations and agencies at the center from
executive to supportive one had been effected. However, government institutions created at
the regional level were lackinlg both human resources and technical capacities to perform
their duties and responsibilities effectively and efficiently.
Factors within the Control of the Implementing Agency
Lack of adequate coordination among implementing and collaborating agencies affected the
speed of implementation negatively.
Project Sustainability
Water Supply Schemes
The sustainability of these schemes in both towns is closely linked with the tariff rate that
prevails during operations, the availability of other inputs such as chemicals and power and
good technical capacity to handle operation and management. Tariff rates have been revised
upwards and further revision is also expected. Some chemicals are being produced locally.
The country is also liberalizing the energy sector that would in fact favor the sustainable
80



supply of power but more expensive. The availability of required technical capacity is not
clearly established, however.
Employment/Income generation loans
Loan recovery in the MSE/SSE programs is satisfactory implying the sustainability of the
program to extend further loans in a similar intervention. The situation also partly indicates
the sound financial position of the beneficiaries' projects.
Municipal Infrastructure
This is the most diversified component of the project. Roads and drains built are likely to be
sustainable. Integrating capacity building with the project is one source of strength for
sustainable road construction and management. The government's policy will have also
contribution. The establishment of road fund and the conducive environment for private
civil work contractors would ensure the sustainable construction and maintenance of roads
and drains. Municipal equipment provided are likely to be sustainable because they have led
to significant reductions in cost of road maintenance and some contribute to municipal
revenues through rentals.
Public toilets and market stalls are unlikely to be sustainable. Identification, preparation and
design problems in the intervention are most important reasons. Due to the poor standard
when compared to similar facilities in the city, market stalls are abandoned in some towns
and modified in others.
From commercial point of view, the sustainability of slaughterhouses constructed in some
regional towns is constrained by some socio-economic variables. Meat consumption is by
large explained by income. In addition, people in most of the sites are not used to this
facility. Cultural factors also aggravate the problem of using this facility. Promotion and
control undertaken by Health Bureaus also has impact to encourage people to slaughter their
anirnals at a slaughterhouse.
Instiu     Suppot
The component includes studies, training and procurement of office equipment and
vehicles. Due the unattractive benefit package among the, trained personnel are leaving the
institutions involved.
FMSS established procedures for better financial management, trained staff, and prepared
procedure manuals, and established databases for revenue collection. All these would serve
the municipalities for a long time to come. The financial management support service offices
being established in the regions would create a favorable environment for the sustainability
of FMSS activities provided by the project.
Sites and Services
The 540 housing units constructed in seven towns are unlikely to be sustainable. First and
foremost, due to the uncompleted work that stayed for more than four years, the already
built construction is being deteriorated by rain. No construction is made after termination
was made with the contractors. It is unlikely that the houses will reach to the habitable stage
in the near future. Moreover, some of the housing sites are far from the towns and some
sites are vulnerable to flood.
81



Bank Performance
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory during project identification, preparation and
appraisal. Project objectives were fully consistent with urban sector issues identified and
components agreed with the articulated objectives. The design of the objectives and
components of the project as well as the institutional arrangements for their implementation
adequately reflected the institutional, social and economic conditions and the thinking
prevailing at the time of appraisal.
During all this restructuring and reallocation, the Bank has shown the willingness and
readiness and assistance to include new sub-components and transfer funds from one
component to another priority component. The Bank's periodic revision has been important.
The Aide Memoirs prepared by the IDA supervision mission are probably the most
important documents for the complete critical review of the project. The Bank's
performance was unsatisfactory in playing its part while the project was restructured. This
was reflected by taking too much time.
Borrower/Implementing Agency Performance
The Borrower's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal is
satisfactory as reflected by the project's priorities. During implementation, the Borrower has
been flexible to respond to changing circumstances. For instance, institutional reforms have
been undertaken; counterpart resources available; and regular audited accounts submitted to
the Bank. However, in some cases the Borrower could not provide adequate institutional
capacity to implement some activities. Lack of adequate incentive package constrained
implementing and project agencies to attract and retain well-qualified personnel. In addition,
the Borrower's performance has been less satisfactory in project operations of some
activities.
Assessment of Outcome
Most activities of the project have been completed very recently. Some did not start
operation, making it impossible to assess their outcomes.
The envisaged outcomes for water supply schemes were to bring about increased access to
clean water as production capacity increased. However, about 50 percent of the water
demand is not yet met due to lag in water connections. Increasing connections and meter
and pipe maintenance is essential to achievement of maximum outcome and reduction of
water losses particularly in Assela town.
The employment generation/income enhancement component addressed the envisaged
targets: loans exceeding SAR targets have been provided to small and micro-scale
enterprises. An improvement in income levels have been achieved. As an experimental
program, the experience gained from successful implementation of these micro and small-
scale enterprise loans is a vital asset as the current po]icy of the country also emphasizes on it
in its poverty alleviation endeavor.
Some activities under of the municipal infrastructure component faced difficulties in
producing the envisaged outcome in some regional towns. Communal latrines and market
stalls constructed in are abandoned in some towns due to poor design and site selection. the
82



market stalls could not provide protection from wind and dust and the toilets failed to be
operational
Asphalt roads in three regional towns are considerable in terms of increasing the length of
asphalt roads in the towns. The current density of traffic does not appear to be enough the
roads in terms of economic rates of return. The bulk of their economic benefit is yet to be
realized in the future with increasing traffic, suggesting the need to give proper attention to
maintenance to ensure that the roads would not deteriorate badly when they become most
important.
Upgrading projects in Addis Ababa improved access and drainage conditions. Solid waste
structures are unlikely to be used.
The road maintenance equipment procured have increased maintenance capacity of
municipalities, are helping reduce cost of road construction/maintenance; and some are
serving as sources of income to the municipalities.
Institutional capacity has been raised among project implementing agencies, relevant sector
bureaus and municipalities in the regions and NUPI partly as a resuk of the implementation
of the ICBP component of the project. Municipal financial performance has also been
improved among those project towns received financial management support services.
The sites and services component failed to achieve the envisaged outcome. This component
in general is unlikely to be successful in poverty alleviation objectives. A similar experience in
another IDA financed project, the Second Addis Ababa Urban Development Project (2161-
ET) also witnesses this. The intervention to cancel further activities in this component while
restructuring the project was therefore appropriate.
Future Operations
The following summaries highlight only future operations on major investments of the
project.
Water suppl schemes: Operating costs comprise staff cost, chemicals, power, civil maintenance,
and oil and grease. User fees are expected to match these costs. Improving the water meter
problem in Assela town would reduce the unaccounted water. Further studies are also
required to provide sustainable solution for the land-sliding problem around the reservoirs
and transmission pipes in this town.
Mcm and 2nall-scale nprise loans: The funds under this project can be used to expand micro-
enterprises in the future until the fund is exhausted by repayments to IDA (i.e., up to year
2004 since the loan was provided for 15 years in 1989). Assuming that DBE would allow its
contribution to be used for this period during the loan repayment period for the IDA
portion, the fund can be used to provide from 36,389 to 72,776 loans to micro-enterprises
up to 2004. Assuming that some 33 percent of the loans are accounted for by repeat-loans,
this would translate to assistance to 24,130 to 48,500 poor households.
Munkzaal Infrastmaure-Asphalt Roads: In all the three towns, asphalt roads constructed by the
project require an annual outlay of Birr 253 thousand for routine maintenance. Major
maintenance is also required every 10 years for which Birr 6.3 million is required. As major
roads, financing is expected from the general fund of municipalities of respective regions
83



Municipal Infras&t-Slauwgterbouses: In all the nine beneficiary towns, Birr 44 thousand is
required for annual maintenance. In addition, Birr 1.1 million is required or major
maintenance every 10 years. User fees are unlikely to cover all operating costs of these
facilities particularly in small towns. Therefore, municipalities may need to subsidize since
the objective of thee facilities is beyond commercial. Efficient utilization of these facilities
requires strict awareness and sanitary control.
Municpal Infrastwne-Upgryaizgprojets in Addis Ababa: In all the 10 Kebeles Birr 91 thousand
is required for annual routine maintenance and Birr 2.3 million for major maintenance every
10 years. As most of the aclivities are local, comrnunity contribution is likely to come out
and need to be encouraged to finance maintenance. Moreover, other facilities like communal
latrines and public fountains can fully be covered by beneficiary contribution and user
charges respectively. Government may be involved for coordination but the physical
execution role shall be transferred to private contractors or NGOs.
Muniapal Infras mire-Muniapa Equipmnt/madhnery. Beneficiary municipalities need to cover
operating costs including labor, fuel and spare parts. General fund is the primary option.
However, some machinery could generate revenue and cover part of the required cost.
Instittitnal Support The issue of benefit revision need to be addressed to retain well-qualified
and expenrenced staff.
Key Lessons Learned
Project appraisal preparation ancl designs Changing circumstances made continual revision and
amendment mandatory in projects with long period of implementation like the MTDP. This
may turn the project to be more complex and achievement of objectives difficult as
flexibility is not always guaranteed.
Project documents need also to indicate operational and cost recovery plans. Operational
plan set before the completion of any activity, could increase productivity and sustainability
as a result of timely accrual of benefits.
ImJplemnion anwaganas: Implementation of the MTDP by an array of institutions, each
with responsibility for a specific component of the project, has shown the need for an
overall project coordinating body with clearly defined responsibility and accountability.
Force account experience of upgrading projects in Addis Ababa suggests that public agencies
shall be limited in contract administration, financing and to some extent in community
mobilization. Physical execution shall be handled by contractors or NGOs.
Monitoing and Eval6ion. regular meetings for progress review by all project agencies and
collaborating institutions is important both to speed-up implementation and stimulate
sustainability. In addition, disbursement performance alone should not dictate further budget
reallocations while periodic revisions are undertaken. But the likelihood operating
performance and sustainability indicators of a component of an activity are more important
than implementation speed.
Agencies: Decentralized approach to project implementation along institutional specialization
may mitigate risk of complexity and hence improve implementation capacity. In most cases
projects would require both key capacity building actions and changes or modifications in
mandates of the project agencies and collaborating institutions identified.
84



Water Suppl sdxees: Proper water supply designs require careful study of hydro-geographic
situation of water courses, detailed geo-technical studies to secure safety of main pipelines
from landslides or erosion and adequate provisions should be made for maximum utilization
of balancing chambers and treatment plants. Historical records of the sites be substitute for
detailed geological studies when cost and time are constraints to conduct the latter. Such
information could be obtained from local people.
Emplo    A/ine ge2ration sdxhne In the absence of integrated advisory/promotional
assistance, loan funds for micro-enterprises are likely to be used in a few traditional activities.
If a sufficiently large number of loans are provided under such circumstances, saturation of
the small markets available in the small market towns and problems of demand are likely to
arise. The consequences would endanger sustainability (for instance, via falling repayment
rates) and reduce the potential impacts on employment and income.
85



Marlket Towns Development Project
Credit 2103-ET
Map
86



IRRD 30665
/  -~~~~~~~~~                                                      400 ~~~~~~~~ETHIIOPIA
\   I                                       )~~~~'    ~                 R ,                                                                                                                       MARKET TOWNS
orb~~~                                          REPUBLIC ~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZI leaa                                                                      0                                                                             PROJECT COMPONENTS:
s~~u    D    A    N         >~~~.'aj         I4          Mb As           MirY                                                                                  EN0                                                                        WATER SUPPLY
-                            ~~~~~~~ASPHALT ROAD
1<      GRAY         '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WiEjaa                        6    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~n                                             ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~        ~~~SAUGHTER HOUSE
UMARKET (SURPACING)
t                                                                            El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  MARKET (STALLS
S  %jMar                        -                                               Ad0                                        *        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMUNAL LATRINE
~~h  ) ~~AbPa  p,,,~~~~  I~~;  e~~ul   ~~'t    ~ ~       A  01>           -                        ,,                                ,   , .-~~~~~~~,                    Mi~~a    PROJECT TOWNSECT   VISITEDITE
"D' b~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UA  N/O  R-LEE  OD
~~<  Solace  em  -            - o.o  a                                                                     *'                                ,                     -.          STHL,ALWATH/EERN(UOF OCALD94S      UNAIS
A                                                                                (W) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NENATIONAL CA UNDARA E
Meadi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~M
/    a                (~~~~~~~~~~~~Md                                                                                                                                                                                     EECE ON
..%/'~~~~~~BRnobaai    N~~~~~~~~~a  Shembo  ataobiaa Moklaera                                                                                                           C            100          SItS         500~~~TAE/RGIN (NOFIIAL194 OUNARE5
10,                                                                      Di                                                                                                                                                              INTER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0M       %~e I{5    S~  NAINL   BOUNARIE
a    Age                                                                                                                                                                                              SW           )'    - 45a  AluAE
Y~61.                                                 A,                                                                                                                                Th,~       p,.d-d by lb. M., D.iq. Uo ~f rh~ WdARAeRk,
a, ~~~~~~~~~~~.  no                           i         i            V-                                                                                           C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th T.pTJ    .  1T.W.   -   -,-
no    SAUDI ARARIA
' ooathTh                                                 o
.4  ito     A,,i                                                                                                                                                                                 a-                                '20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I~~~~~I                                                                            II                  avi
K~~~~~~~6~       ~             ~agl ?.                                                     aE att                                                       ~                                                          I
,-<  Ab   Hay  node    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ad~~~ra     i                                                                                                                            /00 MMORN -A"CFNR
aViottbm  **t                                                                                                                                     noonat>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
I  Moji    Palaae Della  Chain a  Silo   4,  0Mmo  /  lint         i3Danaa                                                                                                            -\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 SMAL
B  Anon SI,,  ,                                                                                            /                                                                  , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'on'i~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~/Io~~~D
UGANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~afl-~2Ca                                                                                                                                                 /`/SO A IAA
K           TakN aY00A 4,w 
Chea  _  _  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    0,000~~~~0                                                                              ,,nLna-,[~~~~~~~~O~~~o~~.o~~~-    Xb>  ----~~~~~~~ -7' SOMALIAECMBElW



