Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2103-ET
                             Project Agreement
                    (Market Towns Development Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    and
                         HOUSING AND SAVINGS BANK
                           Dated March 30, 1990
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2103-ET
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and HOUSING AND SAVINGS BANK (HSB).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that HSB agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and HSB, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to HSB on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS HSB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
Page  2
therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. HSB declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A.2 and E.5 of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and banking practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. HSB shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this
Project Agreement and Parts A.2 and E.5 of the Project.
      Section 2.04. HSB shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
HSB shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) HSB shall, at the request of the Association,
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
      (b)   HSB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by HSB of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
      Section 2.06. In carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, HSB shall:
      (a)   extend loans to cooperatives and municipalities for construction
of houses. Eligibility criteria, terms and conditions of loans are set out
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   not later than June 30, 1990, enter into an agreement with MUDH
employing UDPO to manage HSB's bulk purchase of building materials.
                                ARTICLE III
                     Management and Operations of HSB
      Section 3.01. HSB shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.02. HSB shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
      Section 3.03. HSB shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1991, furnish to
the Association for comments the findings of the internal review on its
requirements for information systems including computer software and
hardware and manpower development; and (b) thereafter implement the findings
of the review taking into account the Association's comments.
Page  3
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) HSB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations,
resources and expenditures of HSB in respect of Parts A.2 and E.5 of the
Project (Project Accounts).
      (b)   HSB shall:
            (i)   have the records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheet statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) including the Project Accounts for
                  each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as but in any case not
                  later than nine months after the end of each such year:
                  (A) certified copies of its financial statements and the
                  Project Accounts for such year as so audited; and (B) the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. In order to improve its financial condition and reduce
the level of bad debts, HSB shall continue to implement an action program,
acceptable to the Association, with the objective of reducing the level of
arrears on its non-nationalized mortgage portfolio to about 3% or less of
the related outstanding mortgage balances by June 30, 1992.
      Section 4.03. HSB shall continue to: (a) carry out annual reviews of
the quality of its mortgage portfolio; and (b) set aside regular annual
provisions for bad debts.
      Section 4.04. HSB shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1993, complete
a Housing Finance Study under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association; (b) thereafter furnish to the Association for comments the
report of the said study; and (c) implement, under a timetable to be agreed
with the Association, the recommendation of the said study.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of HSB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
                  terminate in accordance with its terms; or
            (ii)  the date 26 years after the date of this Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Association shall promptly notify HSB of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in
full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under
the General Conditions.
Page  4
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given
or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      For HSB:
            Housing and Savings Bank
            P.O. Box 3480
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
            Cable address:
                  HOUSE BANK
                  Addis Ababa
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on
behalf of HSB may be taken or executed by the General Manager of HSB or such
other person or persons as the General Manager shall designate in writing,
and HSB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                  HOUSING AND SAVINGS BANK
Page  5
                  By /s/ Tekola Dejene
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                     Terms and Conditions of Loans for
                     House Construction (Section 2.06)
Terms and Conditions
1.    HSB shall extend loans to cooperatives for residential houses at an
initial interest rate of 4.5% per annum to be repaid over 25 years with a
grace period of one year on repayment of principal. The interest rate may
be varied by the Borrower from time to time.
2.    HSB shall extend construction loans to municipalities at the rate of
8% per annum with interest capitalized during construction. On completion
of construction, construction loans would be converted into mortgage loans
for purchasers of the developer built houses. The mortgage loans for the
developer built houses shall be extended at an interest rate of 8% per annum
to be repaid over 25 years.
3.    Municipalities shall employ local contractors to build houses under
Part A.2 (b) of the Project.
Beneficiary Selection Criteria
3.    Residential Plots and Self-Help Built Houses
      Beneficiaries shall:
      (a)   be age 18 or over;
      (b)   be willing to participate in a self-help program,
preferably in a cooperative arrangement;
      (c)   have a reasonably regular formal household monthly income
(either salaried or licensed self-employed) of;
            (i)   up to Birr 190 or about 55-80th percentiles, depending on
                  the town, of the 1988 urban income distribution, for
                  about 20% of the units (cores), and
            (ii)  up to Birr 240 or about 75-85th percentiles, depending on
                  the town, of the 1988 urban income distribution, for
                  about 30% of units (cores + 1 room); and
      (d)   repay the housing loan plus plot development charge and land
lease charge not exceeding 25% of their monthly household income; and
      (e)   do not own any other residential property.
4.    Residential Plots and Developer Built Houses
      (a)   Beneficiaries shall be age 18 or over.
      (b)   Priority in sales shall be given to development officers.
      (c)   Beneficiaries shall have a reasonably regular formal household
monthly income (either salaried or licensed self-employed) corresponding to
about 85-95th percentiles, depending on the town, of the 1988 urban income
distribution for about 50% of the units (core + 2 rooms).
      (d)   The loan repayment plus plot development charge and land lease
charge will not exceed 25% of monthly household income.
