Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2103-ET
                       Development Credit Agreement
                    (Market Towns Development Project)
                                  between
                  PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated March 30, 1990
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2103-ET
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1990, between PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   Parts A.2 and E.5 of the Project will be carried out by the
Housing and Savings Bank (HSB); Parts D and E.3 of the Project will be
carried out by the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) and
Parts C and E.2 of the Project will be carried out by the Water Supply and
Sewerage Authority (WSSA) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance., the Borrower will make available to HSB, AIDB and WSSA
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreements of even
date herewith between the Association and HSB, AIDB and WSSA, respectively;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements' of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
established pursuant to Proclamation No. 158 of 1979 of the Borrower;
      (b)   "HSB" means the Housing and Savings Bank established pursuant
to Proclamation No. 60 of 1975;
      (c)   "WSSA" means the Water Supply and Sewerage Authority established
pursuant to Proclamation No. 219 of 1981 of the Borrower;
      (d)   "AIDB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AIDB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (e)   "HSB Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and HSB of even date herewith, as the same may be made from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "WSSA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and WSSA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (g)   "Project Agreements" means, collectively, the AIDB Project
Agreement, the HSB Project Agreement and the WSSA Project Agreement;
      (h)   "AIDB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section 3.01 (d) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (i)   "HSB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and HSB pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (j)   "WSSA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and WSSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, the AIDB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the HSB Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the WSSA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (l)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "MUDH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Urban Development and
Housing;
      (n)   "NUPI" means the National Urban Planning Institute established
pursuant to Proclamation No. 317 of 1987 of the Borrower;
      (o)   "phase-one towns" means the towns of Assela, Shashemane, Ziway,
Goba-Robe, Arsi Negele, Ambo, Mizan Teferi and Wollisso;
      (p)   "phase-two towns" means the towns of Bahir Dar, DebreBolum,
Woldia, Asbe Teferi, Debre Tabor, Arba Minch, Bodele and Awassa;
Page  3
      (q)   "UDPO" means the Urban Development Project Office within MUDH;
      (r)   "HASIDA" means Handicrafts and Small Industry Development
Agency;
      (s)   "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower.
      (t)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters, dated September 18, 1989, and dated October 16, 1989, between
the Borrower and the Association;
      (u)   "Sub-loan" means a loan to be made by AIDB to any microscale or
small-scale enterprise pursuant to Section 2.06 of the AIDB Project
Agreement;
      (v)    "Letter Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and
the Association dated April 21, 1988, as amended, which provides, inter
alia, that on lending rates shall be positive in real terms and shall
provide an adequate spread for the financial intermediaries;
      (w)   "WSSSU" means the Water Supply and Sewerage Service Unit of
WSSA; and
      (x)   "Central Association" means the Central Association established
pursuant to Proclamation No. 206 of 1981 of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty-one million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars in the National Bank of Ethiopia on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association: (i) a special account (the HSB Special
Account) for the purposes of Parts A.2 and E.5 of the Project; (ii) a
special account (the WSSA Special Account) for the purposes of Parts C and
E.2 of the Project; and (iii) a special account (the AIDB Special Account)
for the purposes of Parts D and E.3 of the Project. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw for the Credit Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall therefore be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
Page  4
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2000,
and ending October 1, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on October 1, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A.1, B, E.1 and E.4 of the Project
through MUDH and HASIDA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for
the purpose.
      (b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AIDB, HSB and
WSSA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreements
Page  5
all the obligations of AIDB, HSB and WSSA therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable AIDB, HSB
and WSSA to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit
equivalent to $6,900,000 million to HSB under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and HSB under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association which shall provide, inter
alia, that the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate
of at least 1. 5% per annum for a term of twenty six (26) years including
a grace period of six (6) years.
      (d)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit
equivalent to $6,200,000 to AIDB under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AIDB under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall provide, inter alia,
that the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of at
least 2% per annum, for a term of fifteen (15) years including a grace
period of six (6) years.
      (e)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit
equivalent to $16,100,000 to WSSA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and WSSA under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall provide, inter alia,
that the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of at
least 1.5% per annum for a term of twenty six (26) years including a grace
period of six (6) years.
      (f)   The Borrower shall relend part of the proceeds of the Credit
equivalent to $4,600,000 to phase-one towns, and $2,600,000 to phase-two
towns under financing agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and
each phase-one and phase-two town under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, that
the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent at an interest rate of at least
1.5% per annum, for a term of twenty six (26) years including a grace period
of six (6) years.
      (g)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) shall be carried out by AIDB, HSB and WSSA, respectively,
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the AIDB, HSB and WSSA Project Agreements,
respectively.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990,
establish and maintain a Project Advisory Committee whose chairman shall be
the Minister of MUDH and whose other members shall consist of senior
officials of MUDH, HSB, AIDB, WSSA, HASIDA and others as may be required.
The said Project Advisory Committee shall be responsible for resolving
operational issues arising during implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.05. In carrying out Part E.1 (b) of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1990, establish and maintain a
Financial Management Consultancy Unit within MUDH under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association. The said Financial Management Consultancy
Unit shall be responsible for, inter alia, introducing improved revenue
collection and accounting procedures in phase-one towns.
Page  6
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project,
consult with the Association prior to allowing Ambo or Sheshemane Central
Association to undertake any capital investment from its own resources in
any fiscal year in an aggregate amount in excess of Birr 100,000.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures to
ensure that central associations of phase-one towns recover on site
infrastructure costs, as appropriate, associated with carrying out Part A.1
of the Project from beneficiaries through levying of plot development and
other charges.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that the interest rates charged by AIDB and HSB conform to the terms of the
Letter Agreement, as such agreement may, be amended from time to time.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, at least until the completion of the
Project, maintain UDPO and provide UDPO with competent staff in sufficient
numbers to enable it to coordinate the implementation of the Project.
      Section 3.10. In carrying out Part E.1 of the Project the Borrower
shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1992, complete a Housing Sector Study
under terms of reference agreed with the Association; and (b) thereafter
furnish to the Association for review the report of the study.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of Parts A.1, B, E.1 and E.4 of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)    The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section and those for the Special Accounts
                  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than nine months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
Page  7
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal control involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all appropriate measures to
ensure that WSSA complies with Section 4.02 of the WSSA Project Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   AIDB, HSB or WSSA shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the respective Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that AIDB, HSB or WSSA will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   Proclamations No. 60 of 1975, 158 of 1979, and 219 of 1981 of
the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of HSB, AIDB or
WSSA to perform any of their obligations under the respective Project
Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AIDB, HSB,
WSSA or HASIDA or for the suspension of their operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, HSB and
WSSA, respectively.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by AIDB, HSB and WSSA, respectively, and are legally binding upon
AIDB, HSB and WSSA, respectively in accordance with their terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower, AIDB, HSB and WSSA, respectively, and are
legally binding upon the Borrower and AIDB, HSB and WSSA, respectively, in
accordance with their terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Page  8
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
foreign economic relations is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Office of State Committee
                  for Foreign Economic Relations
            P.O. Box 2428
            Addis Ababa
            Ethiopia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  OSCFER ET                     21368
                  Addis Ababa
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  PEOPLES DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                  By /s/ Tekola Dejene
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
Page  9
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil Works:
    (a) for Part A.1                 625,000        100% of foreign
        of the                                      expenditures and
        Project                                     70% of local
                                            expenditures
    (b) for Part B                 3,510,000        100% of foreign
        of the                                      expenditures and
        Project                                     70% of local
                                            expenditures
    (c) for Part C                 3,900,000        100% of foreign
        of the                                      expenditures and
        Project                                     55% of local
                                            expenditures
(2)     Goods:
    (a) Pipes and                  4,520,000        100% of foreign
        fittings for                                expenditures and
        Part C of                                   55% of local
        the Project                                 expenditures
    (b) Building                   1,480,000        100% of foreign
        materials                                   expenditures
        for Part A.2
        of the
        Project
    (c)  Vehicles and                               100% of foreign
        equipment for:                              expenditures
        (i) MUDH                     585,000
        (ii) WSSA                     55,000
        (iii) HSB                    280,000
        (iv) AIDB                    125,000
        (v) HASIDA                   155,000
        (vi) Phase-one               935,000
             towns
    (d) Electrical and             1,685,000        100% of foreign
        Mechanical                                  expenditures and
        Equipment for                               55% of local
        Part C of the                               expenditures
        Project
    (e) Machinery and              2,940,000        100% of foreign
        Equipment for                               expenditures
        Part D of the
        Project
(3)     Consultants'
    services, training
    and studies for:
    (a) MUDH 1,200,000
    (b) WSSA 1,055,000
    (c) HSB  280,000
    (d) AIDB 90,000
Page  10
    (e) HASIDA                       335,000
(4)     Loans for house            2,885,000        75%
    construction
(5)     Loans for:
    (a) Micro-Scale                  630,000        80%
        Enterprises
    (b) Small-Scale                  610,000        50%
        Enterprises
(6)     Salaries for:
    (a) Project                       73,000        100% of foreign
        Management                                  expenditures and
        Office of                                   50% of local
        MUDH                    expenditures
    (b) UDPO 750,000         100% of foreign
                            expenditures and
                          50% of local costs
(7)     Refunding of                  75,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                   Agreement
(8)     Unallocated                2,622,000
        TOTAL                     31,400,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
4.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals and
no commitments shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
under:
    (a)   Category 4 for Part A.2 (b) of the Project unless MUDH has
submitted to the Association a marketing plan, satisfactory to the
Association for sale of developer-built houses to the Borrower's development
officers.
    (b)   Categories 1 (a), 1 (b) and 2 (c) (vi) unless the Borrower has
furnished to the Association a financing agreement, whose terms and
conditions shall have been approved by the Association, with any phase-one
or phase-two town which has applied for a loan pursuant to Section 3.01 (f)
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to increase the efficiency of urban
town which are market and service centers, to promote equity for women and
lower-income groups and to support the Borrower's plan for administrative
decentralization.
Page  11
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Housing Sites and Services
1.  Construction of about 1,100 serviced housing plots, including supporting
infrastructure in about six phase-one towns.
2.  Making by HSB of loans to finance the construction of:
    (a)   self-help built houses and related services; and
    (b)   developer built houses and related services.
Part B:   Municipal Infrastructure
1.  Construction of new roads and culverts and rehabilitation of roads,
drains and other related civil works in phase-one towns.
2.  Carrying out improvements to markets in phase-one and phase-two towns.
3.  Extension of power lines to service new housing areas in two
phase-one towns.
4.  Provision of municipal vehicles and equipment to phase-one towns.
Part C:   Water Supply
1.  Rehabilitation of water supply facilities in four phase-one towns,
including rehabilitation of pumps, replacement and/or repair of chlorination
equipment and instrumentation, repair works of buildings, and additions and
repairs to distribution networks.
2.  Construction of extensions to existing water supply systems in two
phase-one towns, including new source works, transmission mains, treatment
plants and distribution systems.
Part D:   Loans to Small-scale Enterprises and Micro-scale Enterprises
    Making by AIDB of Sub-loans to small-scale enterprises and micro-scale
enterprises for sub-projects in phase-one and phase-two towns.
Part E:   Institutional Development
1.  For MUDH:
    (a)   Carrying out a housing sector study, including development of
investment program for housing.
    (b)   Establishment of a Financial Management Consultancy Unit to assist
municipalities in improving revenue and accounting systems and procedures.
    (c)   Establishment of a Project Management Unit to coordinate and
monitor performance of institutions and agencies implementing the Project.
    (d)   Strengthening NUPI's capacity for urban and regional planning
through curriculum development, training and provision of equipment.
    (e)   Carrying out feasibility studies, including engineering designs,
for phase-two towns.
    (f)   Supporting UDPO's implementing capacity.
2.  For WSSA:
    (a)   Strengthening WSSA's operations in the fields of financial
management, engineering and management; and establishment of a Management
Information System for WSSA and improvement of its management and
engineering services.
Page  12
    (b)   Training of WSSA staff in financial management, accountancy, water
resource management and engineering.
3.  For AIDB:
    (a)   Training of AIDB's branch officers and other staff in small-scale
and micro-scale enterprise lending.
    (b)   Provision of vehicles and equipment.
4.  For HASIDA:
    (a)   Training of HASIDA staff in promotion, organization and
registration of small-scale and micro-scale enterprises.
    (b)   Provision of vehicles and equipment.
5.  For HSB:
    (a)   Training of HSB staff in technical, financial management and
computer fields.
    (b)   Provision of vehicles and equipment, including computer software
and hardware.
    (c)   Carrying out a Housing Finance Study.
                                *  *  *  *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic
contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Building materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000
per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of
$300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.  Machinery and equipment for small-scale enterprises estimated to cost
in the aggregate not more than the equivalent of $3.9 million may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at least
two countries eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.  Machinery and equipment for micro-scale enterprises estimated to cost
in the aggregate not more than the equivalent of $300,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers from at least two countries eligible under
the Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Page  13
4.  Civil works contracts for on-site and municipal infrastructure and
building contracts for developer built houses may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)    With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first. payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedules 4 and 5 to this
Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized
withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure. Such con-tracts shall be retained in accordance with Section
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of the HSB
Special Account, Categories (2) (b), (2) (c) (iii), (3) (c) and (4); (ii)
in the case of the WSSA Special Account, Categories (1) (c), (2) (a), (2)
(c) (ii), (2) (d) and (3) (b); and (iii) in the case of the AIDB Special
Account, Categories (2) (c) (iv), 2 (e), (3) (d) and (5) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the respective Special Accounts
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent to: (i) $1,500,000
in the case of the HSB Special Account; (ii) $2,000,000 in the case of the
WSSA Special Account; and (iii) $1,000,000 in the case of the AIDB Special
Page  14
Account.
2.  Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts
shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of any Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of any Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Page  15
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
