Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T - 7070 - RU
TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
May 12, 1997
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Unit of currency: Ruble
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
per US $1
Year                      Period Average                       End of Period
1995                         4,566.0                              4,901.0
1996                         5,129.0                              5,554.0
1997                         5,681.0                              5,744.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BE   -  Beneficiary Enterprise
BG   -  Bank Guarantor
ERSP   -  Enterprise Restructuring Services Project
EC   -  Evaluation Committee
FIDP   -  Financial Institutions Development Project
GOR   -  Government of Russia
IA   -  Implementation Agreement
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
LERC   -  Leontief Economic Research Center
LPC   -  Local Privatization Center
MOE   -  Ministry of Economy
MOF  -  Ministry of Finance
PIAL   -  Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan
PIG   -  Project Implementation Group
RPC   -  Russian Privatization Center
TA   -  Technical Assistance
TACIS   -  Technical Assistance for the Commonwealth of Independent
States
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Director:  Yukon Huang, EC3DR
Division Chief:  Michael A. Gould, EC3AI
Responsible Staff:  Elena Kotova, Juergen Franz, Mohamadou Diop, Theresa Bebli (EC3AI); Elena
Shtykanova (EC3MO): Jonathan Pavluk (LEGEC), Ludmila Poznanskaya (EDIMO);
Peer Reviewers:  Vladimir Kreacic (EC4EF); Peter van der Veen (IENIM)
As of April 30, 1997



TECHNICAL ANNEX
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
Contents
Loan and Project Summary ..................................................i
1. INTRODUCTION ..................................................1
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT ..................................................2
A. OUTPUT DECLINE AND RESTRUCTURING .......................................................2
B. ENTERPRISE FINANCE .......................................................2
C. CORPORATE OWNERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE .......................................................3
D. ENTERPRISE DEMAND FOR RESTRUCTURING SERVICES ....................................................... 5
E. SUPPLY OF RESTRUCTURING SERVICES: GENERAL OVERVIEW .................................................5
F. DOMESTIC CONSULTING INDUSTRY .......................................................6
3. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND THE BANK STRATEGY .............................................. 10
A. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE .....................................................                                                                               10
B. THE BANK STRATEGY .....................................................                                                                                   11
4. THE PROJECT .................................................                                                                                                          13
A. OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE ......................................................                                                                           13
B. DESCRIPTION ......................................................                                                                                        14
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND SUSTAINABILITY ......................................................                                                               18
D. COST AND FINANCING ......................................................                                                                                20
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................................                                                                                              22
A. IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT ......................................................                                                                         22
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ......................................................                                                                            24
C. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ......................................................                                                                          26
D. DISBURSEMENTS ......................................................                                                                                     29
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS ......................................................                                                                               30
F. SUPERVISION AND MONITORING ......................................................                                                                        30
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................                                                                                                  32
A. BENEFITS ......................................................                                                                                          32
B. RISKS ......................................................                                                                                             33
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED .................................................                                                                                                   34



ATTACHMENTS
I  -    Sub-Project Preparation Cycle. Procedures and Criteria for Sub-Project
Generation, Evaluation and Approval
2  -    Draft Sub-Loan Agreement
3  -    Restructuring Services Contract
4  -    Request for Proposals (RFP) for Pre-qualification of Consultants
5  -    Detailed Cost Estimates
6  -    Project Procurement Plan
7  -    Project Implementation Plan
8  -    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
9  -    Project Performance Indicators
10 -    Supervision Plan
11 -    Restructuring Promotion Component, Terms of Reference
12 -    Market Information Improvement Component (Database), Terms of Reference
13 -    Ex-Post Evaluation Sub-component, Terms of Reference
TABLES
Table 2.1: Outsider Ownership in Medium  and Large Privatized Enterprises (end 1995) .............4
Table 2.2: The 25 Leading Russian Consulting Companies (as of end-1996) ................................8
Table 4.1: Summary Project Costs .................................................................       21
Table 4.2: Summary Project Financing Plan .................................................................  21
Table 5.1: Summary Implementation Schedule .................................................................   25
Table 5.2: Summary Proposed Procurement Arrangements ........................................................ 28
FIGURES
Figure 2.1 - Additional Services Provided by Russian Auditing Consulting Firms
MAP
IBRD No. 28633



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Russian Federation
Implementing Agency: Russian Privatization Center (RPC)
Beneficiary:        Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, Russian Privatization Center
Poverty:            Not applicable
Amount:             US$ 85.0 million
Terms:              A single currency US dollar-denominated loan repayable over seventeen years,
including a five year grace period, at the Bank's standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based US dollar-denominated single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:    0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver
Onlending Terms:    US $ 75.0 million of the Bank loan will be onlent by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) to private enterprises for four years, including one year of grace, with
interest at 2 percent above the Bank's lending rate.
Net Present Value:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: A Technical Annex No. T - 7070-RU has been prepared in lieu of a Staff
Appraisal Report
Map:                IBRD No. 28633
Project ID Number:   RU-PA-46448



- ii -
Project Cost:
US $ Million Equivalent
Component            IBRD          Enterprises   Total
Restructuring Services  75.00      15.00        90.00
Restructuring Promotion  0.7                     0.7
Market Information    0.6                        0.6
Ex-Post Evaluation    0.7                        0.7
Project Management    6.4                        6.4
Contingencies         1.6                        1.6
Total                85.0          15.0         100.00
Financing Plan:
US $ Million Equivalent
Component            IBRD          Enterprises   Total
Restructuring Services  75.0       15.0         90.0
Restructuring Promotion  0.7                     0.7
Market Information    0.6                        0.6
Ex-Post Evaluation    0.7                        0.7
Project Management    6.4                        6.4
Contingencies         1.6                        1.6
Total                85.0          15.0         100.00
Estimated Disbursement
US $ Million Equivalent
FY 98  FY 99 FY 00 FY 01 FY 02 FY 03
Annual                1.9    8.8   19.4  24.9  21.9   8.1
Cumulative            1.9   10.7   30.1  55.0  76.9  85.0
Closing Date:       December 31, 2002



RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Russia (GOR) is committed to stabilizing and restructuring the national
economy. This commitment is reflected, inter alia, in the ongoing program of macro-economic and
structural reforms supported under the new Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy.  With the
achievement of a relatively stable macro-economic environment, the focus of the reforms is shifting
towards structural adjustment of the economy to market conditions which will ultimately help to re-start
the economic growth.
1.2    This re-start requires foremostly higher mobility of all factors of production, which are heavily
concentrated in the organized enterprise sector, with its some 25,000 medium and large enterprises.
This makes enterprise reform a high priority.
1.3    Enterprise reform  of such a scope lacks several key ingredients.  First, the gap in the
management skills between the Russian managers and their counterparts from the West, and even from
Eastern Europe, remains substantial. Second, the absence of the relevant market infrastructure constrains
purchases of these skills to bridge this gap. Third, enterprises, privatized with no capital input under
mass privatization, have no means to cover the inherent costs of restructuring. In its tum, slow progress
in restructuring impedes enterprises' access to financial markets and further deepens the aforementioned
financial and managerial gaps.
1.4    While some enterprises have started to search for restructuring expertise in the market, the
majority continues to adjust through accumulation of arrears to state, labor and suppliers. Responding to
the need of catalyzing restructuring process, the GOR has developed an Enterprise Reform Strategy to
accelerate enterprise reform at micro-level. The proposed Project will support further elaboration and
implementation of the Strategy as it will provide a broad range of corporate advisory services to help
enterprises restore their economic viability and gain access to market sources of enterprise finance. The
project would also broaden the institutional base of restructuring by involving in this process enterprises,
banks, potential investors, local consultants, and develop a substantial number of prototype restructuring
cases to help the GOR further elaborate its Enterprise Reform Strategy.



- 2 -
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.    OUTPUT DECLINE AND RESTRUCTURING
2.1    Russian industry2 has faced large adverse shocks since the breakup of the Soviet Union, both on
the demand and the supply sides. Federal and local government transfers, i.e. explicit subsidies and
cheap credits, have dropped significantly in real terms since 1992, imposing increasingly hard budget
constrains on the firms. As a result, the industrial output has fallen dramatically. As of September 1996,
it was roughly 40% of the 1990 level. Light industries, metallurgy, machine-building, chemicals, and
petro-chemicals sub-sectors have experienced the deepest declines. Sub-sectoral variations in output
performance are reflected in regional differences. The Central region and North Caucuses as well as the
largest cities, Moscow and St.-Petersburg, were among the most affected.
2.2    Enterprise adjustment was slow and so far mainly focused on reductions in working hours,
wages, and, to a much lesser extent, employment itself. While reduction of employment is starting to
accelerate gradually, in relation to the decline in output, firms still retain excess labor. Directors still tend
to preserve intact their labor force (and production) as indicated in a recent survey3 in which 46% of
directors stated this as their achievement. Employment bias is reinforced by the fact that unemployment
benefits present an inadequate fall-back option for dismissed workers, and firms tend to retain them but
adjust the hours worked and the monetary compensation. Firms also lack liquidity to provide separation
packages.
2.3    Updating the product mix and the development of production were listed as the major
achievements by only 10% of the directors. Very few of them listed as major achievements development
of new technology, increased competitiveness, improvement of quality, reorganization, entering new
markets, change of the production profile and new investment. This suggests that managers lack skills to
address these areas. Directors cited as main obstacles taxation, cost increases for production inputs,
customers' payment problems, low demand on the domestic market, obsolete equipment and technology.
In the short-term, they intend to respond to these problems through one or several of the following: cost-
reduction, price increase, advertisement, employment reductions, sale or lease of assets. In the longer
term, their focus will be on improving product quality, changing distribution and sales systems, attracting
foreign investors/partners, improving technology, reorganizing, changing their management systems.
B.     ENTERPRISE FINANCE
2.4    Government Transfers.  In 1994, some 25%  of the enterprises still received some form of
subsidy from the GOR, but the transfers have been declining in real terms, mostly been directed towards
very large firms, and related to a combination of employment-stabilizing objectives and compensatory
finance for the provision of social services. Enterprises also extract subsidies from the state through tax
2   The discussion of the enterprise sector in this report focuses primarily on the some 25,000 medium and large enterprises
that have been privatized since 1992 and which are the target group under the proposed project.
3   The survey of directors of medium and large privatized enterprises was carried out by the firms Interquest and Carana Corp
in March 1996 and funded by USAID. Its primary focus was to assess the demand for consulting and professional
services. The survey covered 350 enterprises in 19 oblasts, Moscow, and St. Petersburg.



- 3 -
arrears, a widespread practice since 1995. In addition, they use wage arrears to lobby the GOR for
subsidies or tax concessions. In summary, while not all Russian enterprises face a full hard budget
constraint as yet, the typical medium to large enterprises are facing serious budget constraints and have
incentives to restructure.
2.5    Transacting Purchases and Sales. Working capital finance has become increasingly difficult to
obtain and severe payment problems have arisen. Enterprises, even efficient ones, have to transact their
sales through barter or offsets, often involving up to 10 intermediaries in a complex circle of barter-based
exchange, costing up to 10 percent of sales. Retail sales and exports are the main sources of ready cash.
Hence, there is little that enterprises can do, apart from better inventory management and choosing final
products that can be sold for cash. Payment problems of the GOR itself exacerbate this situation and
have contributed to the emergence of an illiquid and expensive system of tax offsets and bills of
exchange. Last, the banks are slow in making payments, partly because of an inadequate payment
system infrastructure and technology and partly because they make money on the float.
2.6    Financial Markets. Commercial lending activity is severely suppressed, as banks are presently
more interested in acquiring equities in blue chip companies and in investing in highly profitable treasury
bills and notes (GKOs and OFZs). The latter has created a serious crowding out issue for the private
sector. Although the interest rates on treasury bills and notes are expected to come down if the recent
sharp drop in inflation is sustained, the pace at which this will take place is uncertain. Banks are also
hesitant to expand lending activities to the enterprise sector because the non-performing portion on their
existing loan portfolios has increased as stabilization has taken hold, pointing to potential liquidity
problems and the risk of bank failures. Only few banks are systematically looking for lending
opportunities to enterprises. The domestic capital market for primary issues of equity and bonds is thin,
issues are impeded by lack of reliable accounts and problems with disclosure of company information,
and access to international financial markets is limited to a few natural resources exporters.
2.7    In order to obtain finance for working capital and investment, enterprises need either to generate
internal cash or to obtain access to financial markets. Restructuring of their businesses and achieving
sustainable performance is a key precondition for both.
C.    CORPORATE OWNERSHIP AND GOVERNANCE4
2.8    Corporate Ownership. Privatized firms are largely owned by insiders. About 60% of surveyed
companies were majority-owned by rank-and-file employees. However, workers are exerting little, if
any, influence over management, due to insufficient representation, lack of interest in corporate
governance and in monitoring their shareholdings. Managers own on average 17% of their company's
stock, a higher percentage than indicated in an earlier survey. This increase is being achieved by several
mechanisms, including purchase through investment tenders and cash auctions, stock buybacks, and
dilutive share issues.  The state is no longer a significant shareholder in most of the privatized
companies, holding on average about 9 percent of outstanding stock (as of end- 1995).
2.9    Private outside ownership has grown from 22 % at the end of 1993 to 31% at the end of 1995.
The pattern of outsider share ownership of Russian privatized enterprises is uneven, with outsiders
heavily concentrated in a few companies. More than two thirds of the companies surveyed had at least
4   The material in this section draws on the results of a survey carried out in late 1995 on behalf of the Russian Securities
Market Commission by Joseph Blasi, Rutgers University and Andrei Shleifer, Harvard University. The survey covered
322 companies in 44 of the 89 regions of the Russian Federation.



- 4 -
one outsider blockholder, who typically owned 15% of a company's stock. About 11% of the companies
surveyed were majority owned by one or more blockholders. Most blockholders are Russian commercial
firns, followed by voucher investment funds. The table below illustrates a breakdown of outsider
ownership by types of owners.
Table 2.1: Outsider Ownership in Medium and Large
Privatized Enterprises (end 1995)
Owners                                                 % of shares held
Total private outsider-owned stock (weighted-average), of which:  31
Russian commercial firms                                      36
Russian Individuals                                           21
Voucher Investment Funds                                      16
Russian Holding Companies of FIGs5                             8
Russian supplier or customer companies                         8
Russian banks or their subsidiaries                            8
Foreign corporations                                           3
Others                                                         1
2.10   Corporate Governance.  A presidential decree of end-1993 and the 1996 Law on Joint Stock
Companies mandate all companies with more than 1000 shareholders to use cumulative voting for the
election of board of directors. Since the spring of 1994, outsiders have been gradually added to boards of
directors. At the end of 1995, 75% of companies surveyed had at least one outsider director, up from
40%  in 1993.  The presence of a blockholder outsider shareholder tends to strengthen outsider
representation on the board: in companies without blockholders, 11% of board members were outsiders
as compared to 39% in companies with blockholders.
2.11   As a result of still inadequate board representation, many outsider owners are unable to influence
corporate decision-making. The board of directors of a typical company is composed of seven members:
four representatives of management, two representatives of outsider shareholders, and one representative
of state-owned shares, thus most corporate boards can still transact business without support of the
outsider board members. However, the survey also found that in 1995 about one third of all outsider
directors were added as a result of private negotiations with company management. This suggests, that
some of the outsider representation is secured by private arrangements rather than by forrnal legal
procedures.
2.12   A large proportion of surveyed directors do not comply with legal obligations to disclose
information to shareholders. The majority of the surveyed directors oppose disclosure of financial and
ownership information (68%  and 57%  respectively).  About 35%  oppose disclosure of business
information, including that about the product lines. The lack of information available to shareholders
undermines their meaningful participation in company management.
FIG -- Financial Industrial Group



- 5 -
2.13   In summary, the survey rated 60% of the companies as having poor or very poor corporate
governance practices. About 39% received a good rating, meaning that they generally engage in positive
corporate governance practices. No companies in the survey received an excellent rating. The project
would aim to target as much as possible enterprises with reasonable corporate governance practices,
identifying them through the screening process, as well as engaging the outside shareholders in cost- and
risk-sharing of restructuring.
D.    ENTERPRISE DEMAND FOR RESTRUCTURING SERVICES
2.14   Priority areas in which consultants presently are and in the future are expected to be engaged by
the surveyed enterprises are taxation (25% of enterprises), technical and managerial training (19%),
organizing subsidiaries and departments (18%), enterprise valuation, share issue (18%), distribution
channels (16%), advertisement (16%), foreign partner search (17%), legal services (16%), capital
investments (16%), MIS (15%), audit and revisions (12%), packaging (13%), and business plans (15%).
Enterprises have specific views on what types of organizations rendering consulting services they would
entrust with projects in a number of specific areas, particularly when comparing Russian and foreign
consulting firms.  Russian consulting firms are seen to have a significant advantage in the areas of
financial matters and accounting (29% of surveyed enterprises versus 8% of surveyed enterprises,
respectively), legal services (29% vs 3%), relations with state bodies and main shareholders (19% vs
3%), and executive search and training (20% vs 13%). Foreign consultants come out ahead in the areas
of distribution technology (19% vs 13%), foreign economic activities (31% vs 11%), and engineering
services and design (17% vs 11%). Russian and foreign firms were more or less even in the areas of
production management, marketing and sales, and general enterprise management.
2.15   This structure of enterprise demand indicates that the TA needs of enterprises are complex and
diverse. Both western patterns of developing marketing, engineering, and production management and
local knowledge of the Russian institutional, accounting, taxation, and legal context must be brought to
bear. This will be addressed through a number of project approaches and activities, including: (i) project
promotion explaining the benefits and risks of engaging consultants; (ii) competitive procurement of
good quality consultants; (iii) teaming up foreign and local consultants in order to ensure adequate skills
mix for provision of relevant advisory services; (iv) selecting restructuring Sub-Projects which are
oriented towards delivery of tangible operational and financial benefits to BEs.
E.    SUPPLY OF RESTRUCTURING SERVICES: GENERAL OVERVIEW
2.16   The young consulting industry in Russia is represented by foreign and local firms, with almost
no joint-ventures. The leading international companies started to operate in Russia from 1990. Until
recently they dominated the market serving mainly "high-end of the market" clients.
2.17   Following the gradually growing demand of newly privatized enterprises for professional
services, medium-size foreign consulting firms and local consulting companies have started to emerge in
the market. Mainly, they are providing auditing services, gradually complementing them with numerous
other services as an ad hoc response to their clients' needs (e.g. clarifying the legal status and the
property rights, navigating firms through rapidly changing legislation, assisting with some corrective
actions and -- a popular service -- preparing "business plans" perceived by clients as bankable).
2.18   Several dozen medium-size foreign and Russian consulting firms, together with the leading
world consulting firms account for about 70 percent of the total consulting market in Russia, according



- 6 -
to the following ranking: (a)  the "big six"; (b) 20-50 medium-size foreign-owned consulting firms;
(c) 20-30 medium-to large-size (over 50 employees) locally-owned consulting firms; (d) unidentified
number (over a thousand) of small firms and individuals.
2.19   The "big six" are most visible in the market because (i) they have easier access to work with
international companies in Russia, leading banks, and the large export-oriented enterprises, i.e. the
clients interested in the consultants "brand name"; (ii) they win a substantial share of the donor-funded
contracts due to the lack of the domestic firms' prior experience to qualify under the international
procurement standards and resources to handle large-scope contracts.
2.20   Small and medium-size foreign consulting firms as a rule combine provision of general
management consulting services with auditing. Also, a large portion of their activities focus on
corporate finance, financial brokerage and search of an external strategic partner/investor.
2.21   There is a structural mismatch between the enterprise demand for professional services for
restructuring and the market supply. Large foreign consulting firms, able to cover all or many areas of
enterprises' needs, are not affordable to them, especially if the cost of their services is compared with the
production cost structure of a typical enterprise. Local firms have lower costs and better familiarity with
the Russian institutional context. However, the quality of their advice is uneven across the areas of
expertise and is difficult to verify. As a result, enterprises either do not hire consultants even if they need
them, or use their services in a piecemeal fashion, when advice is provided in isolation from the broad
picture of an enterprise's performance, and does not receive adequate follow ups. Hence, enterprises do
not reap full benefits from services, and are further discouraged from their systematic use. The proposed
project will address the mismatch between the demand and the supply by coaching enterprises through
restructuring process, teaming up foreign and local consultants, focusing enterprise restructuring efforts
on priority areas, and encouraging consistent implementation of the restructuring plans.
F.     DOMESTIC CONSULTING INDUSTRY
2.22   Regional distribution of the local consulting companies is extremely uneven, with 3/4 of the
registered and licensed "auditing"/consulting firms concentrated in Moscow and St. Petersburg. While
substantial, unestimated numbers of regional consulting firms exist in the provinces, data on them is not
available. Their self-identification will be an important project activity.
2.23   Similar to the "big six", Russian consultants have also started with auditing and accounting
services. In 1991-1993, these services were in particular demand, since each enterprise's privatization
plan had to include a so-called "enterprise valuation" certified by an auditing company. As of the end of
1996, there was still no clear specialization by types of services among local consulting firms, thus, their
self-identification as "auditing" companies could be misleading. In fact, they provide a substantially
wider range of services as illustrated in the Figure 2.1.



- 7 -
Figure: 2.1 Additional Services provided by Russian
Auditing Consulting Firms
Additional Types of Activities and Services
Provided by Auditing Consulting Firms
AppraiTy consulting  Publishing       Legal/
7%    3%          3%              Arbitration
Accounting                                   21%
7%
Business  _                 ~                Management
Business                           ~~~~~~~17%
Consulting      -
14%                            Corporate
Software/ AS      Finance
14%             14%
2.24   Although the spectrum  of additional services provided by firms who initially started as
4"auditing" companies is broad, these new services do not cover many of the essential areas of
restructuring, such as operational/ technological and engineering consulting, marketing and distribution
channels, financial management, organization of sales.
2.25   The above description of the local consulting firms explains the difficulties to classify them by
range/quality of the services provided. It may prove more useful to classify them according to their
origin, which has some correlation with the market segments they operate in. According to this criterion
the following three groups can be distinguished:
(a)    "Generalists". These are broad profile business consulting firms, which can be broken-
down into two sub-groups. The top twenty-twenty five of them have established
reputation in the market (see Table 2.2.) and operate county-wide. They are able to
deliver a wide range of often valuable services, yet they may not be able to address in-
depth some specific problems key to enterprises' turnaround. Nevertheless, these firms
usually have clear development strategies, are aware of their strengths and shortcomings,
and, accordingly, deliver services only when they are confident of their quality. In
striking contrast with this attitude, the second sub-group of "generalists" entails many
small firms or informal groups of individuals, usually associated with research/academic
establishments. They advertise themselves as "broad profile firms" but, in reality, they
gather ad hoc teams to respond to the clients' requests and deliver services of dubious
quality. Although, their self-identification is important, the proposed project will most
likely make use of the leading 50-80 local firms as primary contractors and sub-
contractors of the foreign service-providers.



- 8 -
Table 2.2: The 25 Leading Russian Consulting Companies
(as of end-1996)
NN             FIRM            Established      Number of   1995 Sales Revenue      Total         Profes-
Daughter      Rubles, million    Employees      slonal Staff
Firms       (VAT excluded)
1  Unikon                         1989            5              37.6              593            372
2  Rosexpertiza                   1993            -              21.2              187            141
3  Business-audit                 1993            9              13.9              153            135
4  Top-audit                      1992            3               13.1              60            43
5  Intemational Center on Tax     1992           32              12.6              429            335
Consulting
6  FBK (Contact)                  1990            3              10.8              149            103
7  Rufaudit                       1991            17             10.3              361            259
8  Balance Ltd.                   1992            4               6.1              131            90
9  Deloviye konsultatsii          1990           11               5.2              128            55
10  MKD (Saint-Petersburg)         1989            -              5.2               103            87
11  Marka-audit                    1990           1               3.9               75             46
12  Gorispavtsev & Co.             1993           1               3.9               88             44
13  Finexport                      1991           11              3.3              200            140
14  Rusaudit                       1992           2               3.1               73             48
15  ENPI "Consult"                 1992           3               2.6               90             60
16  BaIt-audit-expert              1991            -              2.5               56             45
17  Grant-audit                    1994            -              2.4               44             22
18  Vneshaudit                     1992           1               2.4               33             28
19  Marillion                      1991            -              2.3               42             29
20  PAKK                           1993            3               2.1              48             38
21  Auditinkon (Ekaterinburg)      1991            6               2.0              106            65
22  Arni                           1992            -               2.0              61             46
23  A.U.D.I. (Rostov-Don)          1991                            1.7              55             45
24  Aora                           1991                            1.5              25             15
25  Tsentr buhgaltera i auditora   1994                            1.4              35             19
(b)     Industry-Specitic Consulting Firms. Usually these are the spin-offs from  the (former)
branch ministries, with respective support from the national and/or local administrations.
Surveys demonstrate that enterprises are often keen to engage these firms as a source of
industry-specific expertise, while in areas of strategic consulting and financial
management the have no comparative advantages. These firms could be useful sub-
contractors of foreign consulting firms adding, for instance, knowledge of the Russian
industrial relations.
(c)     Consulting Firms Affiliated with LeadinsQ Financial Institutions.    The majority of the
latter (Menatep Group, Most Group, Uneximbank Group, Dialog Bank, Alpha Group,
etc.) include a consulting firm in their structure. These firms mainly service the group's
needs, executing, for instance, diagnostics and due-diligence for corporate takeovers.
The quality of their services is higher than those offered by industry-specific consulting
firms but, on average, lower than those provided by the top 15-20 broad-profile
consulting firms: lack of competition, and stable flow of unsolicited business from
within the Group are among the factors hindering their development.



- 9 -
2.26   The above description of the consulting industry leads to the two main conclusions:
(a)    Only a few local firms can provide a wide range of quality services for restructuring.
Many of them provide services in certain areas with reasonable quality. Identification,
monitoring and classification of firms would substantially improve the market
information about the capacity of the local consulting industry to support restructuring
process, and, would also foster competition in this industry. To this end, the project will
develop a regular updated data base of domestic consulting firms, facilitate their
engagement in the Sub-Projects implementation, monitor their performance, and
disseminate relevant information to the market.
(b)    Both foreign and local consulting firm could gain substantial benefits from joint work:
local firms will upgrade their skills and develop expertise in new areas, foreign ones will
increase the relevance of their services in the Russian institutional context. The project
will encourage teaming of foreign and local firms through procurement arrangements,
however, it will carefully avoid any imposing of such arrangements, which might distort
the pricing of the consulting services provided.



- 10-
3. LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE AND THE BANK STRATEGY
A.    LESSONS OF EXPERIENCE
3.1    The Russian enterprise sector shares with other economies in transition features which influence
enterprise restructuring, such as the lack of enabling environment, weak market infrastructure for
restructuring and the absence of the market-oriented managerial skills. Experience of the Bank and of
bilaterally funded projects in Eastern Europe and Russia indicate several lessons presented below.
3.2    The Bank has assisted private enterprise restructuring in transitional economies almost
exclusively through "traditional financial intermediary lending".6 The Bank OED study attributes the
mixed success of such lending to, inter alia, the lack of attention to (i) the institutional arrangements
required for efficient decision-making of both the enterprises and the financial intermediaries; and (ii)
the technological, managerial, financial and labor needs of enterprises associated with mass privatization.
3.3    The ongoing First Private Sector Development Project in the Republic of Moldova (Ln 14555-
MD), and the Enterprise and Financial Sector Assistance Project in Lithuania (Ln 3866-LT) reinforce the
lines of credit to enterprises with restructuring TA provided on a partially cost-recovered basis. These
two projects have demonstrated so far that: (i) cost-sharing by participating enterprises improves their
incentives to restructure, introduces their demand-driven self-selection, and, contributes to higher rate of
successful turnarounds; (ii) local consultants' involvement facilitates transfer of skills to local private
sector and contributes to the development of the infant consulting industry.
3.4    It may be argued that due to the lack of the market information about the value of consulting
services, there may be little demand for the TA at-fll cost-recovery. The Private Investment and Export
Project in Bulgaria (Ln 3631 --BG), under which the Government on-lends Bank funds for TA to PFIs,
suggests the existence of effective demand from private sector in transition economies to borrow for TA.
3.5    The project incorporates also the lessons of restructuring programs in Russia, which fall into two
categories. First, in 1994-96 under the EU/TACIS, USAID and EBRD-funded programs, 54 enterprises
were restructured on a grant basis, and, second, under the Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan
(PIAL, Ln 3546-RU), 8 pilot restructuring cases are being funded on a loan basis since August, 1996.
Another 30 enterprises are in the pipeline for loan-based TA under the proposed Project.
3.6    The loan-based pilots have shown so far that (i) enterprises are willing to borrow for TA when
they are ensured of being coached through the restructuring process; (ii) they have strong preference for
a combination of domestic and foreign skills; (iii) a typical restructuring proposal combines elements of
diagnostics with intensive follow-ups in one or several of the following areas: (a) financial management
and cost reduction; (b) marketing and distribution technology; (c) organizational restructuring; (d)
personnel training. Outcomes of the loan-based pilots are not yet available.
6   Industrial Restructuring: World Bank Experience, Future Challenges. A World Bank Operations Evaluation Study.
Washington, DC: World Bank, forthcoming.



- 11 -
3.7    Outcomes of 54 completed (of 73 total) grant-based pilots were evaluated 8-10 months after the
end of the sub-projects. The evaluation indicates that the sample benefited from the TA, though the
benefits vary by sub-sectors and by types of restructuring. Net financial gains, exceeding 5-8 times the
cost of the TA input and obtained within 2-6 months after the completion of a sub-project, were observed
in about 31% of the cases, mainly at enterprises in sub-sectors with a short business cycle, and where
"quick-fix" adjustments (financial, MIS, building marketing units) were carried out. Sustainability of
these benefits depends, ceteris paribus, on the enterprise's internalization of the new business practices.
About 38% of the sample enterprises undertook organizational, personnel management and
comprehensive marketing (developing new markets and identification new products) restructuring, with
longer on-site presence of consultants and a longer gestation period. This sub-sample has mainly
increased its capacity utilization and incremental sales growth (exceeding the cost of the TA input by
135% on average). The managers of this sub-sample confirmed that their strategic vision of the
company's development as well as the intrinsic quality of the organization have improved, which, in
their view, would translate in net financial gains in about 15-18 months after the end of the assignment.
However, it may be argued, that longer on-site presence of consultants helps the recipient to internalize
the new business practices, and, hence, the benefits would be more sustainable. In about 30% of the
remaining cases, the managers were either uncertain about the achieved results, or were concerned that
they may not be able to sustain the achieved level of performance after consultants' departure, and hence
would consider inviting them for follow-ups. These lessons, although important for the design of the
project, may not be totally relevant, since the grant-based TA was supply-driven and may not have been
fully owned by the recipients.
3.8    The above lessons were fully taken into account in the design of the proposed project, which
focuses on (i) demand-driven self-selection of enterprises committed to restructure, (ii) delivery of
result-oriented TA, fully-owned by enterprises; and (iii) high level involvement of the local consultants,
allowing for, inter alia, their longer on-site presence and more intensive follow-ups.
B.    THE BANK STRATEGY
3.9    The Russia Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is scheduled to be discussed by the Board of
Executive Directors in June 1997. The proposed project is fully consistent with the objectives of the
CAS and with operational standards for project quality at entry. The CAS places high priority on taking
an integrated approach by the Bank Group to private investment financing, including developing an array
of policy advice, technical assistance and financial instruments to support high priority private sector
investments. The proposed project would address a key bottleneck in improving the environment for
private sector investment in enterprises undergoing restructuring, i.e.,  the need to develop and
implement realistic and high quality restructuring plans with the assistance of professional advisers. As
such, the project would complement and strengthen the overall effectiveness of Bank Group operations
in the area of private sector development.
3.10   The Bank is addressing impediments to enterprise reform and financial sector development
through a number of operations. The Privatization Implementation Assistance Loan (Ln 3546-RU)
provides assistance inter alia for (i) enterprise restructuring through the divestiture of enterprise
kindergartens; (ii) creation of collective investment vehicles (unit investment funds) as a source of
long-term enterprise finance and (iii) several pilot enterprise restructuring (paragraph 3.6). The Non-
Bank Financial Institutions Project (in the pipeline for FY 99) would focus primarily on insurance, and
possibly pension funds, creating additional channels for long-term finance for enterprises. The ongoing
Capital Market Development Project (Ln 4029-RU) helps to build the regulatory infrastructure for



- 12 -
capital markets and supports the development of market architecture for securities registration, trading,
clearance and settlement. These are necessary for the efficient primary issue and secondary trading of
securities by the some 15,000 joint-stock companies that have emerged from the mass privatization
program. The ongoing Enterprise Support Project (Ln 3763-RU), co-financed with EBRD, provides a
line of credit to private commercial banks, through which private enterprises can obtain investment
finance. In parallel, the ongoing Financial Institutions Development Project (Ln 3734-RU), co-financed
with EBRD, helps to build up international-standard commercial banking capacity by accrediting and
providing information technology and twinning services to selected private commercial banks, including
those participating in the Enterprise Support Project. IFC has invested in (i) the National Registry
Company, a large-issue registrar, to stimulate, inter alia, improvements in registry services by providing
a world-class standard of performance; and (ii) several funds (Framlington, First NIS, and Volga) which,
inter alia, take equity and debt positions in privatized Russian enterprises.



- 13 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.    OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
4.1    Proiect Obiectives. The main objective is to develop a sustainable capacity in the Russian
private sector for market-based restructuring and, thus, promote enterprise reform in Russia, a process
presently constrained by a number of market failures and barriers as well as institutional constraints as
described below (paragraph 4.2). The project has three specific objectives: (i) to help about 250 private
enterprises improve their operational/financial performance, in general, and become bankable, in
particular; (ii) to strengthen the local consulting industry in this process and equip it to meet the
expected growing enterprise demand for business advisory services; and (iii) to broaden the institutional
base of the restructuring process and provide incentives to the key market agents, i.e. enterprise
managers, consultants, banks, institutional investors to initiate and drive the restructuring process.
4.2    Proiect Rationale rests on the need to promote enterprise reform at large, which is progressing
so far slowly due to the market failures and barriers to restructuring, as well as institutional constraints,
including:
(a)    Enterprises willing to restructure lack skills to do so and need to buy them in the market.
Asymmetry of information about the value of consulting services among the potential
users (enterprises) and the potential providers (consultants) hinders transactions between
the parties. While there is factual evidence of such transactions, they happen mainly
when buyers have means to assess the value of the services, often with the help of an
experienced outside owner. The project will reduce the asymmetry by introducing an
intermediary, the Russian Privatization Center (RPC), to coach enterprises through
selection and managing consultants. RPC will play this role temporarily and will work
with enterprises, banks, consultants to increase their role in the implementation, so that
the informational constraints in the market are gradually reduced.
(b)    The quality of local consulting services is falling short of enterprises' needs due to a lack
of know-how and capacity. The project will support the infant industry by facilitating
know-how transfer from foreign to local consultants through their teaming up under the
project.  An increased supply of efficient local consulting services, affordable to
enterprises at large, would strengthen the institutional base of the restructuring process.
(c)    Investments in enterprise sector are hindered, inter alia, by the lack of market
information about the value of privatized companies. Demand-driven, loan-based TA
implies self-selection of the BEs. Some eligible enterprises may be not committed to
restructuring, some others may not pass the screening, yet others may fail to obtain a
securing instrument for their Sub-Loans. Finally, the degree of success in restructuring
will vary among the BEs. In this process, direct and indirect signals will be sent to the
market about the value of, and the risks of lending to, over 1,000 eligible enterprises.
(d)    The lack of enterprise financing to cover restructuring costs is another clear barrier to
enterprise restructuring and, hence, productive growth. Such financing is not available in
the market because (i) banks do not lend for technical assistance, and (ii) new



- 14 -
institutional owners (investment companies and funds) have limited resources and can
work with only a small number of enterprises. The project will provide loan-based
financial support to BEs.  Partial guarantees from the BEs' banks or institutional
shareholders will enhance this support and will help develop new institutional and
financial relationship for the ongoing market-based restructuring process.
(e)    The GOR is lacking a comprehensive enterprise reform strategy. The project will help
the GOR to test various specific approaches to enterprise restructuring and, hence, will
enhance the GOR understanding of the incentive framework conducive to enterprise
restructuring and will contribute to the Enterprise Reform Strategy, currently being
developed by the MOE.
B.    DESCRIPTION
4.3    The project will have one core and two supplementary components. The core, Restructuring
Services component will provide direct lending from the MOF to private enterprises to finance corporate
advisory services which will help enterprises to reveal their viable core of business, to improve one or
several areas of operations critical for re-starting growth and to obtain access to market sources of
enterprise finance. Its Ex-Post Evaluation sub-component will disseminate the project best practices in
order to maximize the project demonstration effect. The two supplementary components will enhance
the impact of the core one, i.e. (i) Restructuring Promotion component which will enhance the
understanding of enterprises, banks, potential investors of the restructuring process in general, and of the
opportunities provided by the project, in particular; and (ii) Market Information Improvement component
which will develop and disseminate a periodically updated Database of domestic consulting firms in
order to provide reliable information to the market about the range and quality of the available consulting
services and to facilitate teaming arrangements between foreign and domestic firms. systematic
information to the market about the range and quality of domestically available consulting services. The
Project Management wil l be carried out by the Russian Privatization Center (RPC) under the supervision
of an Inter-Ministerial Task Force to be established by the GOR.
Restructuring Services Component
4.4    Under this component, the MOF will provide Sub-Loans to eligible private enterprises to finance
restructuring Sub-Projects, implemented with the help of professional consultants, Sub-Projects will aim
at generating tangible operating and financial benefits to beneficiary enterprises (BEs) and will include
enterprise diagnostic followed by one or several clearly defined key areas of restructuring activities, such
as, e.g., improving accounting system, financial, information and human resources management,
marketing, reducing costs, streamlining corporate structure, etc. Preparation of "investment plans"
would be considered only as part of a well-structured package of assistance, demonstrating that as a
result of the preceding restructuring, the enterprise's "investment plan" would be, indeed, bankable.
4.5    The component will focus on helping enterprises to turn around their businesses through
revealing the enterprise's viable core and improving its performance so as to generate incremental
internal cash flow and/or obtain access to financial markets. The project will not introduce limits
(beyond those dictated by the credit risk considerations) on the Sub-Loans amount, however, large
enterprises willing to undertake comprehensive restructuring, would be advised to break restructuring
process in stages, and fund the respective Sub-Projects sequentially. The first five Sub-Projects and all
Sub-Projects amounting over $ 600,000 would be subject to prior Bank review.



- 15 -
4.6    The principles of enterprise participation in the project and the terms and conditions of sub-loans
have been confirmed with the GOR as follows:
(a)    Sub-Borrowers. Eligible sub-borrowers will be civilian enterprises (excluding oil and
gas extraction, military production, alcohol, tobacco, real estate and financial services),
at least 75% privately-owned, with employment between 400 and 10,000; legally and
effectively established as open JSCs, with clear corporate ownership, an independently
held registrar, in compliance with tax legislation and not natural monopolies.
(b)    Sub-Proiects.  Eligible Sub-Projects will be enterprise restructuring plans to be
implemented with the assistance of professional consultants, and focused on one (or a
combination ) of, inter alia, the following: (i) improving one or several areas of a BE's
activities, critical for overcoming its present distress; (ii) implementing a result-oriented
strategy of adjustments with relative quick pay-offs;  (iii)  implementing deeper
restructuring changes, if an enterprise has commitment and capacity to undertake them;
(iv) preparing bankable investment plans and helping the enterprises to raise financing.
(c)    Sub-Loans.
(i)    Sub-Loans will be made to enterprises to cover the cost of their restructuring
Sub-Projects, net of taxes; contribution of Sub-Borrowers will be equal to at
least 15 % of the Sub-Project's amount; Sub-Borrowers will also assume the
exchange rate risks.
(ii)    Sub-Loans (of an average estimated size of $ 300,000) will be denominated in
US dollars, will have maturity of four years, including one year of grace, and an
interest rate of 2 percent above the Bank adjustable lending rate to mitigate the
MOF financial risks.
(iii)   Sub-Loans will be generally secured by a bank guarantee to the MOF to cover
50% of the risk of loss of Sub-Loans' principal and interest. The MOF will
consider alternative securing instruments on a case-by-case basis.
4.7    Sub-Loans Pricing.  To promote participation, Sub-Loans will be priced slightly below the
market terms, in the range of 10.42 -- 12.42 percent per annum. This estimated end cost of borrowing to
enterprises will consist of:
(i)    the MOF on-lending rate (2% above the Bank lending rate for single-currency
US-denominated loans, which comprises 5.92 percent as of May, 1997);
(ii)    a market-priced guarantee fee, estimated at the equivalent of 2.0 - 3.5 percent of
the nominal Sub-Loan amount; and
(iii)   a market-priced marginal fee to a bank-guarantor to cover the cost of a sub-loan
administration (i.e., sub-loan book-keeping) estimated at the equivalent of about
0.5 - 1.0 percent of the nominal Sub-Loan amount.
4.8    Enterprise Demand for Financing under the Proiect. Enterprise demand for term-financing to
acquire restructuring TA has been assessed through a USAID-sponsored survey of privatized enterprises.
ERSP-specific on-lending arrangements and terms (paragraphs 4.6 - 4.7) have been tested through a



- 16-
survey of the FIDP banks and through pilot loan-based restructuring Sub-Projects funded under the
PIAL/PHRD. As of mid-May, 1997, eight pilots are in various stages of implementation; another 40
applications are in the pipeline of the forthcoming ERSP; 15 out of 18 surveyed banks are interested to
provide guarantees to BEs and would initiate applications from over 100 enterprises (for the first year
pipeline). About 20 interviewed investment and venture capital funds confirmed that they would initiate
restructuring of about another 3-8 BEs each. Detailed demand assessment is available on Project Files.
Quality of the enterprise sub-projects at entry is uneven: about half of applications requires substantial
additional input from RPC in order to be re-worked into quality Sub-Projects. Both quantitative and
qualitative considerations have been taken into account in the summary of enterprise demand estimates,
which are presented in Attachment 5 as a background work for the project cost estimates, including the
estimates for the operational budget of the ERSP Group at RPC. There is an upside potential in the
effective enterprise demand from (i) reaching larger number of market agents through the project
awareness campaign; (ii) improving the quality of enterprise proposals at entry through targeted
promotion workshops; and (iii) streamlining the Sub-Project cycle through a transition from a "retail" to
"wholesale" approach (as described in paragraphs 4.9 - 4. 10).
4.9    Sub-Proiect Cycle.  Sub-Projects will be generated through a variety of channels, involving
enterprises, consultants, banks and non-bank financial institutions (as enterprise shareholders), future
equity investors. Two base cases of Sub-Project preparation are envisaged:
(a)    "Retail" approach will apply, when enterprise requests the RPC/LPC help in selecting
and contracting consultants. In this case, an enterprise submits to RPC its application,
the draft TOR, and a pre-guarantee letter from a BG. RPC will evaluate this "partial"
Sub-Project proposal and upon its approval by the Evaluation Committee (see below)
will procure consultants in cooperation with an enterprise through standard short-listing.
(b)    "Wholesale" approach will apply, when enterprise selects the consultant from the Roster
of pre-qualified firms. The enterprise develops jointly with this firm a complete Sub-
Project (including application, detailed TOR, restructuring plan and its budget, draft
Sub-Loan agreement, a pre-guarantee letter) and submits it to RPC for review and
subsequent approval by the Evaluation Committee (EC).
4.10   Over the life of the project, the RPC will gradually phase out the "retail" approach in favor of the
"wholesale" one, which will open an "exit" strategy for the RPC by the end of the project.
4.11   Sub-Projects will be evaluated by RPC and approved by the EC based on the three groups of
criteria (Attachment 1) assessing, respectively: (a) the enterprise's current economic viability and its
restructuring potential; (b) the quality of the proposed restructuring plan; and (c) the financial proposal.
The Evaluation Committee will allow the GOR as a lender to participate in the on-lending decision-
making process. Upon a Sub-Project approval, RPC will (on behalf of the MOF) sign a corresponding
Sub-Loan Agreement (Attachment 2) with the BE, approve a Restructuring Services Contract
(Attachment 3) between the BE and the consultants and register the bank-guarantee.  Sub-Loans
Administration will be carried out, under the coordination of the RPC, by the banks-guarantors
acceptable to the MOF (30 banks as of mid-May, 1997). By virtue of providing 50% guarantees for sub-
loans, the banks will share the risks with the MOF, and, hence, will be the natural agents of the MOF to
administer sub-loans with due diligence.
4.12   Ex-Post Evaluation of Sub-Projects will include: (a) in-depth evaluation of the outcomes of a
representative sample (about 60) of the restructuring Sub-Projects; (b) preparation of restructuring case-



- 17 -
studies and other training materials analyzing the lessons learned under the project; (c) dissemination of
these materials through training institutions/centers (indirect project beneficiaries) working with
enterprise sector; and (d) assistance to the MOE in monitoring the Project Performance Indicators. This
sub-component will be implemented by the Leontief Economic Research Center (LERC), a non-profit
municipal St. Petersburg organization, as designated by the MOE. Terms of Reference for this sub-
component are presented in Attachment 13.
Restructuring Promotion Component
4.13   This component will enforce the core, Restructuring Services component by familiarizing market
agents with restructuring approaches in general, and the project, in particular. Promotion activities will
drive demand for the corporate advisory services credit line, will help enterprises to improve the quality
of their proposals at entry and to use consultants more efficiently. The component will support:
(a)    broad marketing campaign which will market the Project through (i) media channels;
(ii) press-conferences in Moscow and in the regions; and (iii) distribution of the Project
information packages through the Local Privatization Centers  (LPCs), training
institutions and banks-guarantors. It will be delivered during the project implementation
start-up period. Its targeted output is informing as broad an audience as possible about
the opportunities provided by the Project and practical ways of participation.
(b)   targeted workshops which will be delivered to applying enterprises as well as to selected
training institutions/centers working with enterprises and local consultants. The
workshops will enhance the audience's understanding of the restructuring process,
further explain the Project design, the benefits and risks of engaging external consultants
in enterprise restructuring.  Their targeted output is improving the quality of the
enterprise applications at entry and facilitating work of the enterprises and consultants.
4.14    The component will be contracted out to a marketing and business development training firm
(see Attachment 11 for Terms of Reference), and will be completed over the first two project years. The
contractor will deliver the program through, inter alia, LPCs and existing enterprise-oriented training
centers, e.g., the EDI regional centers, Management Training Foundation, Morozov Business
Development Project, etc.
Market Information Improvement Component
4.15   Under this component two main activities are envisaged. First, RPC will develop a Roster of
pre-qualified foreign and local consulting firms to provide services under the Restructuring Services
component. The Roster will be advertised, updated annually, and made available to all interested parties.
Although the Roster is primarily a Project procurement tool, its availability to the market will improve
the market information about the sources of the quality consulting services and will help enterprises
(including those, not participating in the project) to select contractor for restructuring.
4.16   Second, interested local consulting firms (not meeting pre-qualification criteria) will be included
in a periodically updated Database, which will also be available to the market. The Database will
provide systematic information to all agents of the restructuring process about the Russian consulting
firms operating in the market, areas of their expertise and prior experience. The Database will be, in
particular, helpful to pre-qualified foreign contractors in assembling teams with skills mix relevant to



- 18-
individual restructuring cases by teaming up with Russian sub-contractors. Such teaming will also help
the local sub-contractors to upgrade their skills through "on-the-job training". Subsequently, it would
enable some or many of them to meet pre-qualification criteria during the Roster updates.
4.17   Establishment/updates of the Roster will be handled by RPC as part of its procurement duties
(see Attachment 4 for the Request for proposal (RFP) for pre-qualification issued in May 1997).
Database development will be contracted out to a private service provider (see Attachment 12 for the
Terms of Reference). The 1997 Database has been prepared by RPC and is already being used by
interested foreign consulting firm for preparation of their pre-qualification proposals.
C.    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND SUSTAINABILITY
4.18   Links to Country Assistance Strategv. The proposed project is consistent with the objectives of
the CAS and fits well into the Bank Group's portfolio: streamlining the corporate operations of the
privatized enterprises is a key precondition for access to private sector investments; catalyzing the
market for business advisory services by providing initial support for restructuring of some 250-270
enterprises would stimulate both the enterprise demand for restructuring services and their supply.
4.19   Background Work and Coordination with other TA Providers. The project builds on the lessons
of experience of restructuring programs supported by (i) EU/TACIS (1994-1995); (ii) USAID (1995-
1996); (iii) EBRD (1996-1997); and (iv) the Bank (PIAL, 1996-1997). The background work,
suggesting the need for the project and including two surveys of enterprise demand for consultants
(March, 1996), a study of the corporate ownership/governance (October 1996), a survey of Russian
commercial banks' interest in supporting restructuring by providing guarantees for TA sub-loans
(November 1996), have been largely financed by the USAID (with contribution from the Canadian Trust
Fund for the banks' survey). Project preparation is being largely funded by the USAID, which covered
RPC staffing and operating expenses in 1996-1997. Two key RPC project-related positions are funded,
respectively, by TACIS and the Government of Finland.  The project will be implemented in
coordination with two other donor-supported programs, i.e. (i) EU/TACIS program to be delivered
through the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (about ECU 7 million); and (ii) British Know-
How Fund program to be delivered through several large Russian commercial banks (about 2.2 million
pounds).
4.20   Adequacy of Policy Environment for enterprise reform is addressed under the ongoing IMF
Extended Fund Facility (EFF) and the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (RU-PE-49203). The
policies supported under these operations include those improving the corporate governance of privatized
enterprises, transparency of privatization, accounting standards of enterprises, regulations for enterprises
bankruptcy/re-organization. A similar policy agenda is being pursued also under the GOR Enterprise
Reform Strategy developed by the MOE. Implementation of these programs will strengthen the
enterprises incentives to restructure and, hence, the project's impacts.
4.21   Public/Private Justification. The market failures and barriers for the broad-based restructuring,
described in paragraph 4.2 (i.e. the underdeveloped effective enterprise demand for professional
consulting services, the lack of quality supply response of the infant local consulting industry and the
absence of financing available to enterprises to cover the cost of external expertise required for
restructuring) justify public intervention in the form of a temporary initial financial support by the GOR
sector to purchase skills, services and training from private providers. Developing publicly supported
facilities to assist a large enterprise population to restructure, in an environment with a nascent
restructuring infrastructure, has been common since 1960s in many countries (e.g., India, Indonesia,



- 19 -
Kenya, Argentina); and in virtually all East-European transitional economies. Public support of private
enterprise restructuring has also been provided in selected OECD countries in the 1970s, when
enterprises had to adjust on a mass scale to the new level of energy prices and, hence, to changes in the
cost of input and output. In Russia, presently, the state intervention is justified due to (i) the scope and
speed of restructuring required to re-start the economic growth; and (ii) the rudimentary market
infrastructure to support this process. Assistance under the proposed ERSP will be loan-based and will
be less concessional than in many other countries.
4.22   Cost-effectiveness.  The TA activities and outputs are clearly defined (see Attachment 9) and
include: (i) consultancies to about 250 private enterprises, (ii) about 20 case-studies and analytical
reports; (iii) about 20 restructuring promotion workshops; (iv) a trend of increased local consultants'
share in the corporate advisory services provided under the project. Although it is not possible to
estimate the monetary value of the provided TA, the latter will (i) allow the recipients to generate
additional internal cash flow and/or obtain access to financial markets within, on average, 10-12 months
after the completion of sub-projects; (ii) improve the quality and broaden the range of the services
provided by Russian consulting firms;  and (iii) better equip the Russian banks and investment
institutions to assess the risks of enterprise financing.
4.23   Sensitivity and Risk Analysis. Explicit discussion of the impact of project and non-project risks
on economic viability is provided in section VI "Benefits and Risks".
4.24   Fiscal Impact/Cost Recovery.  About US $75.0 million (88.2%  of the Bank loan) will be
provided as restructuring TA to BEs on a full cost-recovery basis. This TA will generate immediate
fiscal revenues paid by the service providers (about 15% of the total cost of Sub-Projects), which will
allow to offset the Project non-recovered costs totaling $ 8.4 million (i.e., the cost of the project
management and of the supplementary components). In the longer term, the Project will generate
incremental fiscal revenues through broadening the tax base of the restructured enterprises.
4.25   Performance Indicators. The project clearly defines its development impacts, which include: (i)
improved operating performance of at least 70% of the BEs (measured by substantial or full completion
of the restructuring TOR, and, respectively achieving one or a combination of the following goals: the
sales growth, cost-reduction, decrease of the share of barter in the turnover, improved liquidity, increased
tax payments, obtained access to market finance); (ii) building the capacity of the local consulting
industry (measured by the trend of the local consultants' participation in the contracts under the project);
(iii) accelerating the pace of enterprise reform by linking the Sub-Projects' outputs to the investment and
lending activities of the banks, equity investors, and the donor-supported lending/ investment programs
(see Attachment 9).
4.26   Proiect Sustainability. The project is designed as a temporary GOR intervention to initiate a
broad-based restructuring process in enterprise sector. It has explicit linkages with the GOR Enterprise
Reform Strategy, which requires privatized enterprises to, inter alia, improve transparency and
disclosure of their corporate ownership/governance, improve their accounting standards and management
information systems, reduce the share of barter trade in the turnover, etc. The project and the indicative
Enterprise Reform  Strategy would reinforce each other.  Broadening the institutional base of
restructuring and demonstrating restructuring benefits to enterprises at large (under the project) would
motivate them to undertake efforts to meet the requirements of the GOR Enterprise Reform Strategy,
while consistent implementation of the latter would help sustain the project's impacts. The Project
sustainability will also be enhanced by the direct participation of the leading Russian commercial banks
as guarantors. Over the life of the Project a growing number of commercial banks would be engaged in



- 20 -
the project, which will help them to better understand the restructuring process and to influence pro-
actively the restructuring process of their client enterprises.
4.27   RPC will start to implement the project with a "retail" approach, i.e. coaching enterprises on a
case-by-case basis through all stages of identification, preparation and implementation of their Sub-
Projects. As the enterprises enhance their understanding of the restructuring and of the consultants' role
in this process, RPC will be moving to a "wholesale" approach, limiting its interventions only to several
critical junctures, i.e. evaluation and approval (jointly with the EC) of Sub-Projects prepared by market
agents. This will open an RPC "exit strategy". As the institutional base and market infrastructure of
restructuring are being developed over time, RPC will be increasingly involving market agents in the
implementation, i.e. encouraging bank-guarantors, corporate owners, future investors to supervise Sub-
Projects implementation and initiate restructuring of increasing numbers of enterprises. This strategy
will allow RPC to withdraw by the end of the project without damaging the sustainability of the launched
restructuring process.
D.    COST AND FINANCING
4.28   Cost Estimates. Detailed assumptions and estimates of the project cost and financing plan are
provided in Attachment 5. The total estimated project cost (Table 4.1) is US $ 100 million. The estimate is
based on the beginning- 1997 prices. Consulting services costs are derived from recent fees quoted for
similar services in Bank-financed projects in Russia. Price contingencies for consulting services cost (at a
level of 5% per annum on the basis of experience with similar TA projects in Russia) are estimated only for
the Restructuring Promotion, Market Information Improvement components, Ex-Post Evaluation sub-
component and for the ProjectManagement. The core, RestructuringServices component is a line of credit
with unknown number and size of individual Sub-Projects. Physical contingencies for the Project
Management Cost (at a level of 3.5% per annum) and price contingencies on physical contingencies ( 5%
per annum) are estimated based on the experience with the costs of the PIUs in Russia.
4.29   Financing Plan. The proceeds of the IBRD Loan of $85.0 million to the GOR will be used as
follows (Table 4.2): (i) US$ 75.0 million for Sub-Loans to BEs; (ii) US$ 6.4 million for the project
management cost (of which $ 6.1 million for the incremental operating cost of the ERSP Unit at
RPC/LPCs); (iii) US$ 2.0 million to fund the supplementary components; and (iv) US $ 1.6 million to
cover the price and physical contingencies.
4.30   The proposed Bank loan of an equivalent of US$ 85.0 million will finance 85.0% of the project
cost. Enterprises would co-finance restructuring Sub-Projects and contribute at least US $15.0 million
equivalent in local currency (15.0 %).



- 21 -
Table 4.1 Estimated Project Costs
(US $ million)7
Foreign Componen
in%of       as%o
Cost Category                 Foreign      Local     Total     Total   Base Cos
Restructuring Services
Restructuring Technical Assistance Sub-Loans  44.0      46.0      90.0        50         90.0
Ex-Post Evaluation                                       0.7       0.7                    0.7
Restructuring Promotion                          0.4        0.3       0.7        57          0.7
Market Information Improvement                   0.4        0.2       0.6        67          0.6
Project Management Cost                           0.6       5.8       6.4        10          6.4
Total Baseline Cost                             45.4       530       98.4        46        100.0
Contingencies                                    0.4        1.2       1.6       0.3          1.6
Total Project Cost                               45.8      54.2     100.0      45.8        100.0
Table 4.2: Project Financing Plan
(US $ million)8
IBRD   Enterprises    Total
Restructuring Services
Restructuring Technical Assistance Sub-Loans    75.0      15.0         90.0
Ex-Post Evaluation                               0.7                    0.7
Restructuring Promotion                             0.7                    0.7
Market Information Improvement                      0.6                    0.6
Project Management Costs                            6.4                    6.4
Contingencies                                       1.6                    1.6
Total Financing                                    85.0      15.0        100.0
% financed                                        85.0      15.0        100.0
7   Figures may not total due to rounding.
8   Figures may not total due to rounding.



- 22 -
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT
5.1    The Government. The MOE (as the main counterpart for the Project) and the MOF (as the
lender to enterprises) will be the parties to the Implementation Agreement (IA) with RPC. An MOE-led
Inter-Ministerial Task Force (comprised of the representatives of the MOE, MOF, State Property
Committee (GKI), Federal Project Finance Center and RPC) will be steering project implementation and
resolving project-related issues at the GOR level. An Evaluation Committee (to be established by the
GOR with procedures and membership acceptable to the Bank) will be approving individual Sub-
Projects (paragraph 5.9).
5.2    Russian Privatization Center (RPC) as the Project implementation agency will act on the basis
of the Project Agreement with the Bank, and the IA with the MOE and MOF. RPC was established in
1992 as a non-profit, quasi-governmental foundation. It has developed a solid track record in managing
donor-supported enterprise restructuring programs (paragraph 4.19 above). In 1992-1996, RPC was
financed exclusively by donors. The donors' financing of the RPC is secured until at least the end of
1998, however in substantially smaller amounts than in previous years. After 1998, the donor funding
will most likely be phased out. To this end, the RPC has started to downsize, while at the same time
diversifying its medium-term strategy along the lines of: (a) performing the PIU functions for ongoing
and future donor programs; (b) providing technical assistance services to the GOR; and (c) building
revenue-generating activities under the subsidiary legal entity RPC-Consult.
5.3    The proposed Project intends to fully utilize the RPC unique capacity and skills mix in managing
projects in the area of enterprise restructuring. It will also help the RPC to implement its diversification
strategy by (i) imposing on RPC full accountability to the MOE and MOF under the Project, which will
strengthen the RPC rapport with the GOR; and (ii) by helping the RPC to further strengthen its
institutional capacity in enterprise reform, which will be increasingly in demand in the years to come.
5.4    Full RPC accountability to the GOR and the Bank under the Project will be ensured through a
clear delineation of the ERSP management functions from the rest of the RPC activities. RPC has
established and has started to staff a separate group for the ERSP (" the Group"). The Group will operate
according to the Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank and the Task Force. Its personnel and
compensation policies will remain consistent with those of RPC at large.
5.5    The agreed with the GOR and RPC staffing plan of the Group for the first 15 months of
implementation includes: a Group Manager, 7 restructuring project managers ( including two long-term
consultants), 2 procurement officers, a lawyer, an accountant and 2 disbursement officers. Existing RPC
staff is adequate to launch the project (positions of 3 restructuring project managers are the only
vacancies in the above staffing plan). Staffing for ERSP Group for the life of the project is budgeted in
the estimated Project management cost (Attachment 5) agreed upon with the GOR.
5.6    The budgeting process and accounting procedures for the Group have been confirmed with the
GOR and the RPC during negotiations. Prior to September 30 of each Project year, the RPC will submit a
draft Group's budget for the subsequent budget year for the Bank review and approval, and prior to



- 23 -
December I of each Project year, the MOF and the MOE will approve this budget. The RPC will
maintain the Group's accounting records in a form of a separate ledger of the RPC cash book.
5.7    The RPC project management function will be to:
(a)    coordinate the Sub-Project preparation cycle, solicit Sub-Project proposals from
enterprises, consultants, enterprise institutional shareholders and banks;
(b)    appraise the restructuring potential of applying enterprises and the quality of the Sub-
Projects, in accordance with the approved evaluation criteria (Attachment 1);
(c)    act as the technical secretariat to the Evaluation Committee (EC); upon approval of a
Sub-Project, finalize and sign on the MOF behalf the corresponding SLA with a BE,
approve the corresponding Restructuring Services Contract, register the bank-guarantee,
instruct the bank-guarantor to open and administer the sub-loan account;
(d)    monitor Sub-Projects' implementation directly and through its network of Local
Privatization Centers;
(e)    coordinate the sub-loans' administration executed by the banks-guarantors, and
undertake, on behalf of the MOF, timely measures to protect the MOF's creditor rights;
(f)    manage implementation of the Market Information Improvement, Restructuring
Promotion components and Ex-Post Evaluation sub-component; and
(g)    exercise customary PIU functions ( procurement, disbursement, reporting, etc.).
5.8    Local Privatization Centers (LPCs). RPC has a network of 9 Regional Centers, 6 of which have
each 2 -3 so-called "satellite" Local Privatization Centers. One project manager from each of the 9
Regional Centers will be involved in the ERSP at the beginning of the program, with a possible
subsequent expansion of the LPCs involvement. LPCs' functions will include:
(a)    direct identification of restructuring candidates and coaching them through the Sub-
Project cycle, i.e.: (i) assisting enterprises to prepare TOR, select and manage
consultants; (ii) exercising control over the utilization of the Sub-Loans in compliance
with the correspondent Restructuring Services Contracts and SLAs;
(b)    methodological and administrative assistance in implementation of the restructuring
promotion, market information improvement components with their focus on the
regional work; and
(c)    assistance to LERC in evaluating restructuring outcomes and in identifying suitable
regional training centers to disseminate the case-studies and training materials.
5.9    Evaluation Committee to approve Sub-Projects will be established by the GOR (with
composition and operating procedures acceptable to the Bank) to allow the MOE and the MOF to
exercise the GOR's oversight responsibilities. The EC will have five permanent members, including the
representatives of the MOE, MOF, RPC, the Board of the RPC Directors and an independent financial
adviser.  EC will conduct its meetings about once in a month to approve restructuring Sub-Projects,
prepared by RPC. EC's approval will be based on the same set of evaluation criteria which will be used



- 24 -
by RPC at pre-approval stage (Attachment 1). RPC shall notify other members of the EC of a
forthcoming meeting and furnish to them the meeting agenda at least 10 business days in advance. Upon
approval of a sub-project by the EC, RPC will conclude all relevant contracts for the Sub-project within a
period of 60 working days. If contracts are not concluded within this period, the RPC will have to
confirm the Evaluation Committee approval. Simple majority of votes will be required for Sub-Project
approval. Sub-Projects could also be approved in writing by a simple majority of EC members, in which
case a Sub-Project will be removed from the meeting's agenda. If a Sub-Project is rejected through
written objections, the RPC will leave the Sub-project on the agenda to allow the EC members to discuss
the Sub-project further and to arrive at a fully informed decision.
5.10   The Banks-Guarantors (BGs) will carry out sub-loans administration and will act as the MOF
agents with respect to sub-loans guaranteed by each of them. The cost of the sub-loans' administration
(market-based) will be included in the guarantee fee. The BGs will act on the basis of a framework
agreement with the RPC as the MOF's trustee. The sub-loan administration will entail:
(a)    keeping Sub-Loans accounts (one deposit account for the transfer of funds and one book-
keeping account off balance sheet) for each Sub-Loan, recording disbursement made by
the RPC to consultants, accumulated liabilities of a BE to the MOF and debt servicing;
(b)    providing periodical statements on the Sub-Loans' performance to BEs, RPC and the
MOF in order to allow the MOF (and RPC on its behalf) to exercise its creditor's rights,
follow up on enterprises in arrears and collect debt services by all legal means.
B.    IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE.
5.11   Implementation has been planned with the main objective of ensuring over time the RPC "exit
strategy" and allowing the market to sustain the initiated restructuring process. Three phases of
implementation are envisaged (Table 5.1). Project Implementation Plan is presented in Attachment 7.



- 25 -
Table 5.1 Summary Implementation Schedule
Component           Phase 1 (10/97-12/98)               Phase 11 (01/99-12/00)               Phase III (01/01-12/01)
Restructuring       1. about 50 Sub-Projects approved   1. about 150 Sub-Projects approved   1. about 50 Sub-Projects approved and
Services            and financed;                      and financed;                        financed;
2. about 20 Sub-Projects completed;   2. about 130 Sub-Projects completed;   2. about 60 Sub-Projects completed;
2. RPC accepts enterprises          3. only complete Sub-Projects started
applications as well as complete Sub-  to be considered by RPC
Project proposals
Restructuring       1. about 8 press-conferences        1. about 10 workshops delivered;
Promotion          delivered;                          2. by the year 2000 restructuring
2. about 10 workshops delivered;   workshops are taken over by training
2. training centers for further delivery  centers on a self-financed basis; and
of workshops and for dissemination    the component is completed.
of project experience are identified;
3. project is marketed through media
Market Information  1. Roster '98 and Database '98      1. Rosters '99 and '00 as well as    1. Roster '01 and Data-Base '01 available to
Improvement         available and used by the market    Database '99 and '00 available and   the market
used by the market
Ex-Post Evaluation   1. about 2 case-studies prepared.  I. about 10 case-studies prepared and    I. about 8 case-studies prepared;
sub-component      2. about 8 sub-projects' outcomes   disseminated to training centers;     2. about 28 sub-projects' outcomes
evaluated;                         2. about 24 sub-projects' outcomes    evaluated;
3. analytical report '98 prepared.  evaluated;                           3. Report "Best Restructuring Practices"
3. a Report "Best Restructuring      updated;
Practices" prepared and disseminated.   4. Dissemination of the training materials is
I_taken over by the training centers.



- 26 -
C.   PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
5.12   The project will involve the Bank-finaiced procurement of services in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January
1997). The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.2 below, and the time-table
for procurement activities is presented in the Project Procurement Plan (Attachment 6).
5.13   Enterprise Restructuring Services. For the Restructuring Services component a Roster of pre-
qualified consultants will be procured prior to Loan effectiveness (paragraph 7.2), and BEs will select
consultants from  the Roster through commercial practices.  In case of the RPC procurement of
consultants on behalf of the enterprises, the procedures for the Quality-and-Cost-Based selection method
will apply. The RPC started a two-stage pre-qualification process to select 25-40 foreign and local
consulting firms in February 1997. The first stage -- Expression of Interest -- was completed, with about
200 firmns having registered their expression to enter the Roster. Request for Proposals (RFP), issued to
all eligible firms in May 1997 (Attachment 4), indicates, inter alia, that (i) foreign firms are encouraged
to sub-contract local consultants (firms and individuals); and (ii) upon approval of a Sub-Project
prepared jointly by an enterprise and a consulting firm on the Roster, this firm would be invited to
negotiate a Restructuring Services Contract with this enterprise without additional competitive
procedures. An ad hoc Selection Commission, established by the MOE, will pre-qualify firms to form a
Roster on the basis of a "threshold", open-end approach. The firms will be pre-qualified based on the
evaluation of their technical capabilities.  They will also quote fees for the main categories of
consultants. This financial information will not be used for the purposes of pre-qualification, but in
order to make the quoted rates available to enterprises for selection and negotiation purposes.
Establishment of the Roster is a condition of Loan effectiveness (paragraph 7.2).
5.14    The end-users (enterprises) will solicit consultants' engagement in preparation and execution of
their restructuring sub-projects based on one proposal from a firm on a Roster for contracts valued at
$300,000 or less, and on at least two proposals for the contracts of greater value. In case the Roster does
not provide for appropriate restructuring skills for a particular enterprise, consultants for restructuring of
this enterprise would be procured by the enterprise and RPC through standard QCBS procedures. The
Restructuring Services Contract (Attachment 3) will include, inter alia, provisions that:
(a)    consultants could be recruited only at rates not exceeding those quoted during the pre-
qualification;
(b)    consultants would have an opportunity to extend the initial Restructuring Services
Contract, if and when (i) the enterprise decides that it needs consultants for additional
TA in other areas of enterprise restructuring; and (ii) this extension, i.e. the subsequent
restructuring application, is approved under the Project as a separate Sub-Loan;
(c)    consultants should not provide services to potentially competing enterprises, i.e. to more
than one enterprise in a same sub-sector, or should, at least, disclose to RPC and the
prospective client enterprise their prior engagement in the same sub-sector.
5.15   RPC will update the Roster annually through additional pre-qualification tenders. It is expected
that many local consulting firms acting initially as sub-contractors will later graduate from the Database
(developed under the Market Information Improvement component) to the Roster. The Database will be
available to the firms in Roster without obligations to select sub-contractors from this source.



- 27 -
5.16   Ex-Post Evaluation. Leontief Economic Research Center (LERC), a non-profit municipal St.
Petersburg organization, has been designated by the GOR to implement this sub-component. The non-
competitive (Single-Source) selection of the LERC by the GOR is justified by the LERC's experience in
macro- and micro-economic analysis and policy research, as well as by the specific objectives of the sub-
component, i.e. to help the GOR to: (i) monitor the outcomes of the restructuring Sub-Projects and the
Project Performance Indicators; and (ii) to elaborate its Enterprise Reform Strategy.
5.17   Project Management. The RPC has been designated by the GOR as the Project implementing
agency. The two long-term consultants for the ERSP Group (positions of the investment specialist and
restructuring specialists) will be procured through the Selection of Individual Consultants method.
5.18   Bank Procurement Review.  Prior Bank review has been completed for the RFP for the pre-
qualification of consultants to enter the Roster. Prior Bank review will also be required for the:
(a)    evaluation reports for pre-qualification of consulting firms to enter the Roster;
(b)    Terms of Reference, short lists, evaluation reports and contracts for the Restructuring
Promotion and Market Information Improvement components;
(c)    Terms of Reference and contract for the Ex-post Evaluation sub-component;
(d)    Terms of Reference, evaluation reports and contracts with two long-term consultant
positions in ERSP Group at RPC; and
(e)    procurement for the first 5 Restructuring Services Contracts, and for Restructuring
Services Contracts with a value of $ 600,000 or greater.



- 28 -
Table 5.2 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
ITEM                        PROCUREMENT METHOD
QCBS  Commercial Least-Cost  Selection of   Other c/  TOTAL
Practices    Selection a/ Individual
Consultants b/
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  2        3            4            5            6          7
Restructuring
Advisory Services                 90.0                                              90.0
to Enterprises                   (75.0)                                            (75.0)
Restructuring           0.8                                                          0.8
Promotion              (0.8)                                                        (0.8)
Market Information      0.7                                                          0.7
(Database)             (0.7)                                                        (0.7)
Ex-Post Evaluation                                                        0.8        0.8
(0.8)     (0.8)
Project Management                              0.3           0.5          6.5       7.4
(0.3)        (0.5)        (6.5)      (7.4)
Total   1.5        90.0         0.3           0.5          7.4      100.0
(World Bank)  (1.5)        (75.0)       (0.3)         (0.5)        (7.4)     (85.0)
a/     The cost of Project audit.
b/     Includes two (foreign) long-term consultants at RPC and the financial adviser to the Evaluation Committee.
c/     Includes the cost of ERSP Group (with the exceptions of the two (foreign) consultants) and the cost of the
single-source contract with the Leontief Center.
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. Figures may not total due to
rounding



- 29 -
D.    DISBURSEMENTS
5.19   The proceeds of the proposed Loan will be disbursed as follows:
(a)    Consulting Services: (exclusive of VAT): 100 percent of the cost of  consultants
including fees, international and domestic airfares, local ground transportation, hotel and
subsistence expenses, insurance, advertising (including media purchases), printing and
publishing and other head office cost. Disbursements will be made based on final
invoices, bills and other valid proofs of payments for service rendered, duly certified by
the enterprise or other beneficiary of services, and approved by RPC ( already net of
VAT). Unless otherwise agreed with RPC, all payments to consultants will be made to
the designated blocked account of a BE in its bank-guarantor, which will immediately
transfer these payments to the account of the service-provider;
(b)    RPC Management Expenses (exclusive of taxes): 100 percent of local staff salaries and
charges, individual consultants contracts, expenses for international and domestic travel,
local transportation, subsistence and accommodation, communication, office supply and
rental, translation, report writing, editing, printing, advertising, local and international
communication. Prior to the start of each budget year, RPC will prepare its operating
budget for coming year and submit it for approval to the MOF and the Bank. The budget
will include itemized categories of expenses, as described above and will be financed
through customary Special Accounts procedures (see paragraph 5.21).
5.20   The estimated disbursement schedule (Attachment 8) is based on the detailed Project cost
(Attachment 5), and on the disbursement profile for FILs in the ECA region and the Bank-wide TA
projects. The schedule does not take into account expected improvement in the capacities of the local
consultant industry, enterprises and other stakeholders to present to RPC viable restructuring Sub-
Projects ready for approval. Funds under the proposed Loan would be available for commitment until
June 30, 2,002, the proposed Project completion date. Disbursements would be completed by December
31, 2002, the proposed Project closing date.
5.21   Special Account To facilitate timely project implementation, the GOR would establish, maintain
and operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a
competitively selected Russian commercial bank. The SA will be opened in the name of the RPC with
the initial allocation limited to US$ 1.5 million. When the aggregate disbursement under the Loan has
reached US$ 10.0 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$
3.0 million by submitting a relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be
submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents. Disbursements for expenses under contracts for goods and services
or individual items under US$ 300,000, and for all RPC operating expenses, will be made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs). This threshold corresponds to the expected minimal size of Sub-
Loans. Documentation for justification of withdrawals made under the SOEs will be retained by RPC for
ten years and will be reviewed by Bank supervision missions and audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. All other disbursements will be made on the basis of fully documented
applications from the Principal Loan account.



- 30-
E.    ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
5.22   The BGs will open Sub-Loan Accounts (under the name of the MOF and the Enterprise) in their
books in order to (i) transfer payments to Enterprise's service-provider; and (ii) record the flow of funds
under each Sub-Loan, thus establishing legal validity of the enterprise debt to the MOF. Deposit Sub-
Loan account will be a purposely designated blocked sub-account of the enterprise current hard currency
account and will ensure protection of funds posted to this account against the seizure by a third party.
Book-keeping (off balance sheet) Sub-Loan account will reflect (i) payments to the consultant of a given
BE, (ii) accumulated interest and other charges; and (iii) BE's payments and repayments to the MOF.
Sub-Loan accounts will be reviewed in the normal course of the annual audit of the BGs.9 The BGs will
perform the Sub-Loan administration functions on the basis of framework agreements with RPC, and
will, inter alia, provide customary financial statements on the sub-loans' performance to the BEs, and the
RPC. The latter will be consolidating the statements, monitoring the overall MOF Project portfolio,
following up on enterprises in arrears, and notifying the MOF of the need to take any warranted legal
actions vis-a-vis enterprises in default.
5.23   The RPC will have responsibility for ensuring that appropriate financial accounts are maintained
for itself, the Leontief Center and BEs through the bank-guarantors. Accounts of RPC and Leontief
Center, including the SA and the SOEs, will be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. RPC will also ensure that Sub-Loan accounts in the books of the BGs are properly audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to Bank. In the context of the overall audit of project
accounts and financial statements the RPC shall ensure that a representative sample of enterprises have
their financial statements and accounts audited.
5.24   The RPC and the Leontief Center will furnish to Bank certified copies of the aforementioned
audited accounts, together with the corresponding management letters, within six months of the end of
the fiscal year. RPC and the Center will submit to Bank quarterly and annually progress reports
(including financial and budgetary accounts) on all project component activities. The GOR and RPC
shall ensure that sufficient funds are earmarked to finance the cost of the audit of project accounts.
F.    SUPERVISION AND MONITORING
5.25   Supervision. The project supervision plan (Attachment 10) includes a schedule for Bank
supervision missions, the skill mix required, staff week input and cost. Three supervision missions are
planned for the FY98 and for FY99 each; two for FY00 and for FY 01 each, and one for FY 02. Total
staff input for supervision is estimated at 64 weeks of the Headquarters' and 48 weeks of the Resident
Mission's staff. A start-up mission is planned for July 1997 and a Project launch for September 1997.
A mid-term review is planned for April 1999. Progress reports will be submitted quarterly to Bank by the
RPC, as well as annual reports, summarizingthe progress and issues in implementation.
5.26   Mid-term Review of Implementation. The mid-term review of project implementation (planned
for April 1999) will, in particular, assess trends in the enterprise demand for the project, performance of
the already restructured enterprises, their servicing of the Sub-Loans, and the efficiency of the overall
implementing arrangements. It will also refine the RPC "exit" strategy. RPC will be responsible for the
coordination of the Mid-term Review and the follow-ups with the MOE and MOF. The basic reference
9   The banks-guarantors acceptabie to the MOF are leading commercial banks, most of whom also participate in
the FIDP. Their annual international audit is one of the mandatory requirement under the FIDP.



- 31 -
documents of this review will be the RPC Project Agreement, documentation under the ERSP operation,
other agreed Loan and Project documents and audit reports.
5.27   Implementation Completion Report. RPC will prepare an Implementation Completion Report
(ICR), the content and format of which to be agreed with Bank, and submit it to the Bank within six
months after the project closing date of December 31, 2002.
5.28   The Project's Monitorable Targets. Bank's monitoring of project performance will focus both on
quantitative and qualitative criteria of: (a) the progress in project implementation; (b) the achievement
of development objectives; and (c) the impact on restructured enterprises.
5.29   Implementation performance criteria will include: (i) the number of enterprises requesting and
receiving Sub-Loans under the project; (ii) the number of Sub-Projects implemented; (iv) the number of
enterprises restructured successfully; (v) amounts of sub-loans committed and disbursed by the RPC;
and (vi) level of participation by local consultant firms in project implementation, etc.
5.30   Development impact will be assessed through (i) improved operating performance of at least
70% of the BEs ( through evaluation of the sample group of enterprises as described below); (ii)
building the capacity in the local consulting industry (measured by the trend in the volume of project
contracts assigned to local consultants); (iii) an accelerated trend in the pace of restructuring (by linking
the Sub-Projects' outcomes to the investment and lending activities of banks and equity investors,
measured by the number of the restructured enterprises which have obtained access to new finance).
5.31   Impact on restructured enterprises will be assessed through monitoring a sample of about 60
BEs, with respect to their achievement of (a) general improvement of their performance (measured by
one or a combination of the following: improved liquidity, access to new finance, increased tax-
generation, decreased barter trade); and (b) Sub-Projects' specific objectives ( measured as full or
substantial completion of the restructuring TORs). The Project Implementations Plan and the Project
Performance Indicators are presented in, respectively, Attachments 7 and 9.



- 32 -
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   BENEFITS
6.1    The project will help to implement some 250 restructuring Sub-Projects, targeting tangible
operational and/or financial improvements, which will generally (a) strengthen the medium-term
viability of the BE; (b) transfer to the BEs the skills of how to work with and use consulting services
successfully, which will serve them well for the future and (c) transfer market operation skills to
managers and staff in the specific context of their enterprise, which will maximize skill absorption.
6.2    All good quality Sub-Projects of eligible enterprises would be considered for funding under the
project. The project will not target only short-term tangible benefits. This may inappropriately rule out
significant number of enterprises, especially in sub-sectors with longer business cycle, restructuring of
which can bring net financial gains only in 15-18 months after the completion of a Sub-Project. The
main benefits for enterprises should be derived from internalizing sound business strategies and practices
rather than from targeting "quick-fix" improvements which may not be sustainable in the longer term, as
demonstrated by the lessons learned (paragraph 3.7).
6.3    The project would give, ceteris paribus, some priority to Sub-Projects which help enterprises to
meet the indicative targets of the GOR Enterprise Reform Strategy, i.e. to (i) improve the enterprises
accounting and financial management systems; (ii) introduce the MIS and help the BEs to decrease the
share of barter in the overall turnover; (iii) develop new markets and new relationship with customers;
(iv) open avenues of access to new capital investment. These changes, if supported by appropriate
assistance in internalizing their mechanisms (e.g. by envisaging personnel management training in the
Sub-Projects), tend to translate into net financial gains, 5-8 times exceeding the cost of the TA input,
within a period of 6-12 months, i.e. faster than, for example, organizational restructuring and developing
new production lines.
6.4    Besides the direct benefits to the BEs, there are indirect demonstration benefits which can accrue
to a much broader enterprise audience as well as to the enterprise corporate owners and potential
investors. The project targets these benefits through a systematic analysis and broad dissemination of the
restructuring experience gained through the sub-projects. Surveys demonstrate that enterprise managers
look to the experience of other enterprises when undertaking reform and considering to hire consultants.
6.5    Another benefit of the project is that it boosts both the demand for business advisory services in
Russia and the quality supply of them. The latter would be ensured by providing Russian consultants
with opportunities to participate in restructuring projects with international firms, and to gain the
experience, skill, clientele, and references needed to begin to effectively serve the huge Russian
enterprise sector. The project design, while staying within the Bank's procurement guidelines,
encourages enterprises and consulting firms to interact with each other during Sub-Project preparation
and contracting, in as much a market approximating manner as feasible.



- 33 -
B.     RISKS
6.6    The project faces macro-economic and institutional risks: a reversal of the recently achieved
stabilization and the inherent unpredictability of the Russian business regulatory environment may
exacerbate the difficulties that the enterprise sector faces, making it more difficult to undertake
successful restructuring. The project would suffer in several ways: first, demand would likely drop off;
second, successful implementation of sub-projects under way could be jeopardized; and third, most
importantly, the improvements under Sub-Projects may not be sustainable, thus putting the firm-level
benefits as well as Sub-Loan repayment at risk. The project cannot address this risk other than by
slowing down implementation or scaling back its scope, if necessary, and must therefore rely on the
stabilization policies of the Government, supported by policy lending from the Bank and the IMF.
6.7    The project also faces the risk, that even under favorable macro-economic conditions, the
intended sub-project benefits are either not achieved or are not sustainable, because of factors which are
not, or only partially under the control of the project and yet have a strong impact on enterprise
performance, e.g. ownership changes, corporate governance practices, corporate control behavior. The
project addresses this risk in two ways. First, enterprises have a strong self-interest to achieve and
sustain project benefits because of their financial exposure, both in terms of co-financing the
restructuring services, and with respect to their debt service obligation vis-A-vis the MOF. Second, sub-
projects have to be endorsed not only by management, but also by the enterprise board, ensuring broad
commitment to the sub-project, at least at entry.
6.8    The project further faces a portfolio risk: by definition, the participating enterprises will
generally have significant problems and could be a bad credit risk. Conceptually, the project cannot
eliminate this as it explicitly targets enterprises in need of restructuring. The project attempts, however,
to mitigate this risk by: (i) assigning great weight to turnaround potential when evaluating sub-projects;
and (ii) requiring that, as a rule, a bank guarantee be provided for 50% of the Sub-Loan amount.
6.9    Although demand has been tested (paragraph 4.8) and confirmed, it is possible, that the private
sector response to the project is inadequate. This risk is associated mainly with two factors: (i) the
trends in the interest market rates, determining the attractiveness of the Project financial terms and
conditions; and (ii) the failure on the part of some or many enterprises to comply with the necessity to
cover a part of the Sub-Projects' costs. The project addresses this risk in several ways: (i) the project
fills a market gap and its product is currently not available in the market place;  (ii) project
implementation will be accompanied by a promotion campaign; and (iii) the project is engaging
shareholders, banks, and consulting companies to identify suitable enterprises and generate Sub-Projects.
Finally, the project is calibrated very conservatively and aims to provide support to only about 25% of
enterprises of those, which are expected to be interested and eligible to participate.
6.10   The  project requires significant project management and  administration  expertise  and
collaboration among various private sector participants. The project addresses this implementation risk
in the following ways: (i) the implementing agency, the RPC, has a multi-year track record of managing
donor financed projects in privatization and enterprise reform, and will further strengthen its capacity
under the envisaged project implementation arrangements; (ii) project promotion will help the private
sector parties to better understand the project; and (iii) close monitoring of the RPC/LPC would ensure
timely practical assistance to the private sector parties involved.



- 34 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.1    During negotiations the following project parameters were confirmed: (a) terms and conditions
of Sub-Loans (paragraph 4.6); (b) project cost and financing plan (paragraph 4.28 - 4.30); (c) the
Government coordination of the project implementation (paragraph 5.1);  (d) the RPC  project
implementation functions (paragraph 5.2 - 5.8); (e) the staffing, budgeting and accounting procedures
for the project implementation group at RPC (paragraph 5.4 -5.6); (f) the principles of operation of the
Evaluation Committee (paragraph 5.9); (g) the enterprise eligibility criteria and the broad categories of
the Sub-Project evaluation criteria (Attachment 1); and (h) the Project Performance Indicators to be
monitored by the MOE and the Bank in order to assess the project developmental impact and the
progress in implementation (Attachment 9).
7.2    The following actions will be taken as conditions of Loan effectiveness:
(a)    by the GOR:
(i)    MOE and the MOF to sign the Implementation Agreement with the RPC
acceptable to the Bank (paragraph 5.1); and
(ii)   the Government to establish the Evaluation Committee, approve its operating
procedures, acceptable to the Bank and appoint its members, including the
outside member -- financial adviser (paragraph 5.9);
(b)    by the RPC:
(i)    to finalize the Roster of consulting firns pre-qualified to be contracted by
enterprises under the Restructuring Services component (paragraph 5.13).
Ekotova/itb;
Filename: m:\elena\erspdoc5\greytn I doc
Template: c:\data\normal.dot
May 9, 1997 5:43 PM



Attachment 1
Page 1 out of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT PREPARATION CYCLE
PROCEDURES FOR SUB-PROJECTS GENERATION,
EVALUATION AND APPROVAL
Definition of a Restructuring Sub-Proiect and its Financing.
I .    Sub-Project is an approved for implementation plan of restructuring activities to be carried out
jointly by an applying eligible enterprise and a pre-qualified consulting firm with an objective to improve
the enterprises operational and/or financial performance. Duration of a Sub-Project implementation may
vary from 4-6 weeks to 8-9 months depending on the nature of the restructuring activities which an
enterprise is willing to undertake. Engagement of the consultants is to be financed (in percentages to the
total Sub-Project cost) by a combination of an enterprises own resources (15-20%) and a Sub-Loan (80-
85%) provided by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) out of the proceeds of the World Bank Loan.
Generation of Sub-Proiects.
2.     Sub-Projects are generated by eligible enterprises and are prepared either with the help of the
RPC/LPC or jointly with a consulting firm, which will be expected to further implement the Sub-Project.
The enterprises and consultants are assured to receive assistance in the Sub-Project preparation from the
LPC of their region, and, if warranted, from the RPC Moscow.
3.    A supplementary channel of Sub-Projects generation is direct identification by the LPCs of the
enterprises seeking for restructuring, which are unable to clearly define their restructuring needs and,
accordingly, select a relevant consulting firm. In this case, an enterprise may submit its applications for
assistance under the project to the RPC/LPC, the latter will help the enterprise to finalize the Sub-Project
and upon its approval by the Evaluation Committee will procure the service-provider for the enterprise.
4.    In order to help enterprises and pre-qualified consulting firms to identify each other, the RPC
will ensure through the LPCs that enterprises seeking to restructure have free access to the Roster of
consulting firms pre-qualified as primary contractors, as well as to the Database of local consulting
firms. An enterprise may wish to engage a mix team of foreign and local consultants, and indicate this in
the TOR. In this case a pre-qualified firm from the Roster seeking engagement with an enterprise will
select a local sub-contractor using, if necessary the Database.
5.    After an enterprise has prepared the application and the draft of the TOR for restructuring, it will
invite proposals from at least two pre-qualified consulting firms ( for assignments greater than
$300,000), and select one of them. Consulting firms may also directly approach enterprises; in order to
maintain incentives for them to solicit their engagement and to work with an enterprise through the Sub-
Project preparation, the enterprise should invite the second proposal early enough in the preparation



Attachment 1
Page 2 out of 6
cycle, compare the two (or more) proposals and then, proceed with the development of a full-fledged
Sub-Project proposal with a consulting firm of its choice.
6.     While developing the Sub-Project proposal, the enterprise will need to determine the size of its
own contribution towards the cost of its Sub-Project and, respectively, the size of the requested Sub-
Loan. As a rule, an enterprise will be expected to obtain a bank guarantee or a similar instrument of
securing at least 50% of the amount of the future Sub-Loan principal and interest against a risk of loss of
the MOF from one of the banks acceptable to the MOF (currently 25 banks). The enterprise will seek to
obtain such instrument through direct negotiations with banks. The consulting firm, seeking engagement
with an enterprise (or the LPC) may help the enterprise in contacting an appropriate bank. In case the
enterprise has not been able to negotiate a bank guarantee, it still may submit the Sub-Project and seek
obtaining a corresponding Sub-Loan. Sub-Projects proposing provision of unsecured Sub-loans could be
approved by the Evaluation Committee on a case-by-case basis, if an enterprise proposes an alternative
securing instrument (e.g. liquid collateral, escrowing future revenues, etc.).
7.     The main objective of the joint development of the Sub-Project by an enterprise and a consulting
firm is to create the market approximating conditions for restructuring in order to develop the
enterprise's ownership of the Sub-Project, and to facilitate independent transactions between enterprises
and consulting firms. The enterprise and the consulting firm will be expected to complete preliminary,
"walk-in diagnostics" during the Sub-Project preparation, determine the enterprise's restructuring
priorities, establish working relations and, respectively, focus the Sub-Project on the implementation of
the essential restructuring changes rather than on the traditional diagnostic-oriented report-writing.
Submission of the complete Sub-Proiects to the RPC
8.    In case the enterprise and the consulting firm are jointly submitting a Sub-Project for the RPC
consideration, the Sub-Project dossier should contain the following essential elements:
(a)    an enterprise application (signed by the CEO and endorsed by the Board);
(b)    TOR for the proposed restructuring activities;
(c)    a second proposal from a pre-qualified consulting firm and the enterprise's justification
of its choice of the service-provider;
(d)    restructuring plan developed jointly with the selected service-provider, including clear
definition of:
(i)    the scope of work, the time-table and the expected outcomes;
(ii)   the proposed staffing plan and the budget;
(iii)  the proposed financing plan;
(e)    a draft Sub-Loan Agreement, indicating the amount of the requested Sub-Loan, and the
amortization schedule;



Attachment 1
Page 3 out of 6
(f)    a pre-guarantee letter for 50% of the requested Sub-Loan's principal and interest from
one of the acceptable to the MOF commercial banks.
Submission of Enterprise Applications.
9.    If an enterprise cannot submit a complete Sub-Project proposal, it may submit its application
supported by the draft TOR. In this case, the RPC will help the enterprise to develop the detailed TOR,
including the definition of the expected outcome and its impact on the enterprise performance, and
determine approximately the size of a Sub-Project and of a Sub-Loan, and will help the enterprise to
secure a guarantee commitment from a bank.
Sub-Proiects Evaluation.
10.    Sub-Projects will be evaluated by the RPC and by the Evaluation Committee against the
evaluation criteria, agreed between the GOR and the World Bank (see below). All Sub-Projects which
collect at least 75 merit points (out of 100) will be presented for the approval by the Evaluation
Committee.
11.   In case of a submission by an enterprise of an application supported by the draft TOR, proposed
budget and financing plan, the RPC will evaluate this "partial" Sub-Project against the same evaluation
criteria, adjusted proratively. Proposals which collect at least 75 merit point (on the adjusted scale) will
be submitted for the approval of the Evaluation Committee. Upon approval of the enterprise partial Sub-
Project, RPC will procure the service-provider jointly with the enterprise through bidding procedures.
Sub-Projects Approval
12.    For each Sub-Project (complete or partial) meeting the evaluation criteria, the RPC will submit
the Sub-Project Executive Summary to Evaluation Committee. The Committee will arrive to a
conclusion on a Sub-Project within about 10 business days after the Sub-Project has been submitted. The
Committee will use for its approval the same set of evaluation criteria, as used by the RPC at pre-
approval stage. A simple majority of the EC members will be required for Sub-Project approval. Upon
the approval of a Sub-Project, the RPC shall conclude all the respective contracts for the Sub-Project
within a period of 60 days. In order to avoid re-submission of the Sub-Project for the confirmation of
approval by the Evaluation Committee, an enterprise should provide its best effort to RPC to complete
contracting under the Sub-Project.
Contracting for the Implementation of Sub-Proiects
13.   This will include: (a) approval by RPC of the Restructuring Services Contract (Attachment 3)
between an enterprise and the consultants; (b) concluding a Sub-Loan Agreement (Attachment 2)
between the MOF (represented by the RPC) and the enterprise; (c) transferring a pre-guarantee letter into
a bank guarantee, duly accepted and registered by RPC.



Attachment 1
Page 4 out of 6
CRITERIA FOR
SUB-PROJECTS EVALUATION AND APPROVAL
The objectives of the Evaluation Criteria is to provide a basis for the RPC and the Evaluation
Committee to evaluate and approve restructuring Sub-Projects.
A.    Eligibility criteria
A Sub-Project will have to meet the following eligibility criteria:
I.    Enterprise.
1.1.   at least 75% privatized;
1.2.   open Joint Stock Company (as per the requirement of the Privatization program);
1.3.   with employment between 400 and 10,000;
1.4.   legally and effectively established;
1.5.   not operating in oil and gas extraction, alcohol, tobacco, military production, financial services,
real estate;
1.6.   with independently-held register of shareholders.
1.7.   with clear structure of corporate ownership/governance;
1.8.  in compliance with tax legislation;
1.9.   not a natural monopoly.
II.    Completeness of the Sub-Project and its compliance with the Project desizn.
2.1.   The primary contractor should be a consulting firm from the Roster an it should quote the fees in
accordance with the prices, indicated at pre-qualification stage.
2.2.   Sub-Project should contain at least one other proposal, invited and received from a consulting
firm from a Roster for Sub-Projects with a cost exceeding $300,000.
2.3.   Sub-Project should be complete (include the scope of work, the work plan, the expected
outcomes, the team structure; the detailed budget).
2.4.   The application should be signed by the CEO and endorsed by the Board of Directors.



Attachment 1
Page 5 out of 6
III.    Financial Proposal.
3.1.   Draft Sub-Loan Agreement in compliance with the established interest rate, maturity and grace
period for the Project and in accordance with the approved model SLA;
3.2.   Clear indication of the size of the enterprise contribution in cash and "in kind" (i.e.
accommodation, transport, communication for consultants) totaling at no less than 15% of the
Sub-Project financing plan;
3.3.   A securing instrument for at least 50% of the Sub-Loan principal and interest against the MOF
risk of loss.
If any of the criteria of the Group I (Enterprise) is not met, the Sub-Project will not be processed
further. If any of the criteria of the Groups II (Completeness of the Sub-Project) and III (Financial
Proposal ) is not met, the RPC will propose the enterprise to revise the Sub-Project.
B.    Evaluation Criteria
Each Sub-Project proposal will be evaluated as follows:
(a)    Technical Proposal and Financial Proposal will be evaluated separately;
(b)    Total number of scores for Technical Proposal (T) will equal 100.
(c)    Total number of scores for Financial Proposal (F) will equal 30.
(d)    Sub-Project must have at least a score of 70 for the Technical Proposal (cut-off rate);
(e)    Sub-Project must have the Final Score (FS) of at least 75;
(f)    The Final Score (FS) will be determined as:
FS = T x 0.7 + F



Attachment 1
Page 6 out of 6
C.     Scores:                                                               Complete Partial
1.     Qualitv of an applyjin  enterprise:                                   40             50
1.1.   Quality of the enterprise management (assessed through interviews)    18             22
1.2.   Current economic "health" of an enterprise:                   10                     12
1.2.1.  industry attractiveness;
1.2.2.  competitive position (market share);
1.2.3.  financial positions( historical sales growth; profitability;
barter/sales ratio; liquidity;
1.3.   Enterprise potential                                          12                     16
1.3.1. production volume increase potential;
1.3.2.  cost reduction potential;
1.3.3. product price increase potential.
II.    Ouality of the proposed restructuring project                         60             50
2.1.   Expected operational/financial improvement of an enterprise:   20                    50
2.1.1. relevance of the restructuring plan to the enterprise needs;
2.1.2.  expected impact of consultants;
2.1.3.  expected generation of an additional cash flow;
2.1.4.  assessed enterprise's requirements in new commercial finance and
proposed sources.
2.2.    Quality of the approach proposed by Consultants:             30
2.2.1.  quality of the approach and its relevance to the
Russian economic and institutional environment;
2.2.2.  compliance of the approach with the scope of work
defined in the Terms of Reference;
2.2.3.  quality of the proposed team (staffing plan)
2.3.   Transfer of skills to Russian consultants:                    10
2.3.1. existence of a local sub-contractor
2.3.2. the proportion of work and budget allocated
to the local sub-contractor;
Total Score for Technical Evaluation (T)                             100
C.     Quality of financial proposal                                         30
3.1.   quality of a securing instrument;
3.2.   committed contribution in cash from the enterprise;
3.3.    committed contribution "in kind" from the enterprise;
3.4.    cost of consulting services (compatibility of the proposed budget to
the proposed scope of work
Total Score for Financial Proposal (F)                               30
m:\elena\erspdoc5\attachl doc
5/6/97



Attachment 2
Page 1 out of 9
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
DRAFT SUB-LOAN AGREEMENT
Moscow                                                                    199
The Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation represented by the Social-State
Foundation "Russian Privatization Center" (hereinafter referred to as "RPC") in the person of the
Chief Executive Officer           acting on the basis of the Enterprise Restructuring Services
Project Implementation Agreement, Power of Attorney of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian
Federation and the RPC's Charter registered by the Ministry of Justice of The Russian Federation on
January 01,1996, N 1693 (hereinafter referred to as "Lender"), on the one hand, and
Open join-stock company                                in the person of the Chief
Executive Officer                                             acting on the basis of the
Charter registered                                               (hereinafter referred to as
"Sub-Borrower"), on the other hand,
WHEREAS:
A.    The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter referred to as
"IBRD") has granted to the Russian Federation the Loan for the implementation of Enterprise
Restructuring Services Project (hereinafter referred to as "Project") in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement between the Government of the Russian
Federation and the IBRD  dated             1997 (hereinafter referred to as "Loan
Agreement");
B.    In accordance with the terms and conditions of the Loan Agreement the Project
Implementation Agreement between the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, the
Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation, and the RPC dated     1997, and the
Project Agreement between the RPC and the IBRD dated        1997, the RPC has been
designated as the Project Implementation Agency;
C.    In accordance with the terms and conditions of the Implementation Agreement, the RPC has
been instructed to perform legal actions on behalf of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian
Federation including preparing, signing, and supervising theimplementation of the Sub-Loan
Agreements with Sub-Borrowers which have been approved by the Evaluation Committee
approved by the Evaluation Committee ruling dated _ _, Protocol N
The RPC acting for and on behalf of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation and the
Sub-Borrower hereto hereby agree as follows:



Attachment 2
Page 2 out of 9
Article I. Terms and Definitions
1.1.   For the purposes of this Agreement the terms which are defined in the General Provisions
applied to Agreements on IBRD Loans and Guarantees dated January 1, 1985, in the Loan
Agreement and in the present Agreement have the same meaning; in addition, the following
terms shall be used and they can have more detailed definitions in comparison with their
definitions in the mentioned above General Provisions and Loan Agreement:
"IBRD"                         means the  International Bank  for Reconstruction  and
Development;
"The MOF"                      means the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation;
"The MOE"                      means the Ministry of Economy of the Russian Federation;
"RPC"                          means the Social-State Fund "Russian Privatization Center";
"The Evaluation Committee"     means a body approving Sub-Projects and terms and conditions
of Sub-Loans;
"The Consultant"               means a consulting company                    providing
consulting services on restructuring to the Sub-Borrower
within the framework of the Sub-Project and in accordance
with the Contract for Consulting Services;
"The Special Account Bank"     means the commercial bank selected by the RPC jointly with
the MOF to opening of the Special Account of the Project
(hereinafter referred to as the "Special Account";
"The Guarantor Bank"           means a commercial bank            submitted a guarantee
to the MOF securing the debt obligations of the Sub-Borrower
to the MOF under Sub-Loan Agreement and in which the Sub-
Borrower shall open the Sub-Loan account for the entering in it
the proceeds of the Sub-Loan, fulfillment of the payments to
the Consultant and repayment of the debt to the MOF;
"The LPC"                      means a regional branch of the RPC;
"The Loan Agreement"           means the Agreement between the Government of the RF and
the IBRD about granting the IBRD Loan;
"The Project Agreement"        means the agreement between the IBRD and the RPC on the
designation of the RPC as the Project Implementation Unit
responsible for the execution of PIU customary functions,
signing of Sub-Loan agreements, project monitoring, co-
ordination of the sub-project  preparation cycle, Ex-post
Evaluation and etc.;
"The Implementation Agreement"  means an Agreement signed by the MOF, the MOE, on one
hand, and the RPC, on the other hand, in accordance with
which the MOE and the MOF instruct the RPC to perform legal
and other actions, including signing and execution on behalf of
the MOF of the Sub-Loan Agreements and the MOF are
obliged to reimburse the expenditures of the RPC incurred
during the execution of the indicated actions;
"The Restructuring Services    means a contract between the Sub-Borrower and the Consultant
Contract"                      dated  _  1997 a copy of which is attached in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement;



Attachment 2
Page 3 out of 9
"Sub-Loan Account Agreement"    means an Agreement between the Sub-Borrower and the
Guarantor Bank dated      provided for opening of a Sub-
Loan account to deposit and transfer to Consultant the proceeds
of the Sub-Loan and to deposit and transfer to the MOF of the
Sub-Borrower's debt service payments, a copy of which is
attached in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
"Agreement for the Provision of    means an Agreement between the MOF (represented by the
the Information"               RPC) and the Guarantor Bank according to which the
Guarantor Bank shall provide the MOF(represented by RPC)
with information regarding the implementation of the present
Agreement;
"The Bank Guarantee"           means a bank guarantee dated  _  provided by the Guarantor
Bank as a security of the fulfillment of the Sub-Borrower of at
least 50% of financial obligations under this Agreement, a copy
of which is attached in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
"The Sub-Project"              means a sub-project of restructuring the Sub-Borrower;
"The Special Account"          means an account opened by RPC at the Special Account bank
to disburse the proceeds of the IBRD Loan and granting of the
Sub-Loan;
"The Loan"                     means a loan granted by the IBRD for the implementation of
the Project in accordance with Loan Agreement;
"The Sub-Loan"                 means a loan provided to the Sub-Borrower in accordance with
the present Agreement;
"Consulting Services"          mean corporate advisory services provided by the Consultant to
the Sub-Borrower in accordance with the Restructuring
Services Contract;
"The period of interest accrual"  means the period from the date of the first use of the Sub-Loan
proceeds by the Sub-Borrower up to the date of the first
payment of the interest not including this date, and further on -
the period from the interest payment date including it to the
next interest payment date not including it;
"The  account  of  the  Sub- means an account of the Sub-Borrower opened in the
Borrower"                      Guarantor Bank to deposit and transfer the proceeds of the
Sub-Loan to the Consultant and to deposit and transfer to the
MOF the Sub-Borrower's debt service payments.
Article II. The Subject of the Agreement
2.1.  In accordance with the Loan Agreement and the Project Implementation Agreement, the
Ministry of Finance shall grant a Sub-Loan out of the proceeds of the IBRD Loan on a fixed-
term, interest-bearing and repayable basis.
2.2.   The Sub-Borrower shall reimburse the MOF the amount of the Subloan and pay interest,
commission and other payments stipulated by the applicable laws of the Russian Federation
and this Agreement.



Attachment 2
Page 4 out of 9
Article III. Amount, Terms and Conditions of the Subloan
3.1    The amount of the Subloan shall be $       . The Sub-Loan shall be granted and all
payments under this Agreement shall be made in Russian roubles in accordance with the
exchange rate of the Central Bank of Russia valid on the date of payment.
3.2    The currency exchange commission shall be covered by the Sub-Borrower.
3.3    The Subloan is intended for payments to the Consultant for its work under the Consulting
Services Agreement stipulated by Schedule N 4 to this Agreement and it can be used only
for these purposes.
3.4    The Subloan shall be granted to the Sub-Borrower via appropriate payments to the
account of the Sub-Borrower based on the requests of the Sub-Borrower. The Sub-Loan
Withdrawal Date shall be a date of writing the Sub-Loan amount off the Special Account.
3.5    To obtain the respective Sub-Loan the Sub-Borrower shall submit to the RPC the
following documents:
i)   a request to pay the services of the Consultant in accordance with the format shown in
Schedule 3 to the present Agreement;
ii)  an invoice in accordance with the Restructuring Services Contract signed by the
Consultant and accepted by the Sub-Borrower;
iii)   a certified evidence that the Sub-Borrower has transferred to the Sub-Loan account
funds in the amount of the VAT for the given item;
iv)  a certified by the tax authorities statement that the Sub-Borrower is out of arrears
against payments to the budgets of any level and to the state non-budgetary funds, i.e.
that the Sub-Borrower has no status of a debtor as specified in Degree No 1212 of the
President of the Russian Federation - "On Mechanisms to Improve Collecting Taxes
and Other Mandatory Payments and to Regulate Cash and Non-Cash Circulation",
dated August 18, 1996, as well proving any possible tax deferments (loans) granted to
the Sub-Borrower; and
V)  a copy of the payment order with an acceptance mark of the Guarantor Bank to transfer
the amount withdrawn to the Consultant;
3.6.   The Sub-Borrower shall submit to the RPC the list of persons authorised to sign requests for
payments. The Sub-Borrower shall within three days inform the RPC of any new
appointments and other changes which require the appointment of new persons having the
right of signature.
3.7.   The Lender shall grant the Sub-Loan amounts under the terms specified in Schedule I to the
present Agreement.
Article IV. Interests
4.1.   Interest shall accrue on any used and unrepaid amount of the Subloan for every period of
interest accrual and shall be paid on any interest calculation date beginning from _ 199_.
4.2   Interest shall be calculated from actual number of days in the interest period



Attachment 2
Page 5 out of 9
Article V. Repayment of the Subloan
5.1.   The Sub-Borrower shall repay the Subloan, interest and any other amounts by way and in
terms indicated in the Schedule 2 to the Agreement by issuing a payment order to transfer the
respective amounts to an account        of the MOF.
5.2.   Transfer of any amounts to repay the Sub-Loan shall be effected from the Account of the
Sub-Borrower only.
5.3.   Each repayment of the Subloan shall be made in roubles according to the rate of the Central
Bank of Russia valid on the payment date.
5.4.   Advanced repayment of the Subloan can be made by the Sub-Borrower by agreement with the
MOF in the person of the RPC and on conditions specified by this Agreement. The interest
for the unused period of the Sub-Loan are not charged.
5.5.   The date of actual repayment of the Sub-Loan shall be the date of depositing the repayment in
the account        of the MOF. All repayments of the Sub-Loan principal and payments of
the accrued interest and other fees stipulated in the present Agreement shall be effected at the
interest repayment dates in accordance with the terms of the present Agreement.
5.6    The Lender has a right to terminate the present Agreement and demand early repayment of
the Sub-Loan in accordance with the terms of the present Agreement in the following cases:
(i) termination of the Sub-Loan Account Agreement by the Borrower or the Guarantor Bank;
(ii) any claim of any third parties to the money on the Account of the Sub-Borrower or any
threat of above claim;
(iii) occurrence of any Sub-Borrower's arrears against payment to the budgets of any level
and to the state non-budgetary funds i.e. occurrence of the status of a debtor with the Sub-
Borrower as specified in Degree # 1212 of the President of the Russian Federation - "On
Mechanisms to Improve Collecting Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments and to Regulate
Cash and Non-Cash Circulation", dated August 18, 1996;
(iv) re-organization or liquidation of the Sub-Borrower.
5.7.   In case of a delayed repayment of the Sub-Loan in principal, delayed repayments of the
interest and other fees stipulated in the present Agreement, the amounts repaid by the Sub-
Borrower to service the occurred debts shall be directed firstly to repay the debt in interest
and then to repay the Sub-Loan in principle and other fees.
Article VI. Obligations of the Sub-Borrower
6.1.   All payment obligations of the Sub-Borrower specified in this Agreement shall be irrevocable
and unconditional.
6.2.   Sub-Borrower shall undertake the following obligations to the Lender:
(i) To inform the RPC in a written form within three days on the change of its mailing address
and bank accounts, as well as on decisions concerning the re-organization or liquidation of
the Sub-Borrower;
(ii) To submit a copy of a Bank Statement of the Sub-Borrower account to the Lender in the
person of the RPC proving the transfer of money to the Consultant immediately after actual
transfer of this money to the Consultant and after obtaining the Guarantor Bank Statements
of the Sub-Borrower account;
(iii) To submit to the RPC not later than 30 days after the end of each quarter of the year
reports on Sub-Project implementation;
(iv) To submit to RPC immediately any information on:



Attachment 2
Page 6 out of 9
(a) termination of the Sub-Loan Agreement by the Sub-Borrower and Guarantor
Bank;
(b) claims on the Sub-Borrower's accounts by any third party or occurance of the
threat of such claims;
(c) occurrence of the Sub-Borrower's arrears against payments to the budgets of any
levels and to the state non-budgetary funds i.e. on occurrence of the status of a debtor
with the Sub-Borrower as specified in Degree # 1212 of the President of the Russian
Federation - "On Mechanisms to Improve Collecting Taxes and Other Mandatory
Payments and to Regulate Cash and Non-Cash Circulation", dated August 18, 1996.
6.3.   Sub-Borrower shall on a monthly basis submit to the RPC and/or to the authorized LPC the
reports on the Restructuring Services Contract, including the following:
i)    Reports of the work time of the Consultant and its expenditures approved by the Sub-
Borrower;
ii)    Report on services provided by the Consultant in accordance with the Restructuring
Services Contract (Schedule 4 to this Agreement) and results achieved.
6.4.   In order to enable the Lender to fulfill and provide for permanent monitoring of the
implementation of the Sub-Loan proceeds the Sub-Borrower shall undertake to do the
following:
(i) store all required documentation on the services rendered, goals reached and results
achieved, namely:
- correspondence;
* working documents;
* documents on internal workshops, and
* activity reports received from the Consultants;
(ii) provide proper working conditions for the representatives of the RPC, LPC, IBRD,
dispatched for field review of the outputs achieved by providing the consultancy services;
(iii) do not block routine financial verifications and annual audits of his own financial reports
and accounts, including verification of the accounts opened in the Guarantor Bank;
(iv) provide free access for the representatives of the RPC, LPC, IBRD and Guarantor Bank
as well as the auditors authorized by the RPC to the premises of the Sub-Borrower and
render to them comprehensive assistance in routine inspections of Sub-Project
implementation.
Article VII. Provisions for Fulfillment of Sub-Borrower Obligations
7.1. In order to ensure proper fulfillment of the Sub-Borrower obligations, the Guarantor Bank
submitted the Bank guarantee.
7.2. A Bank guarantee (attached in Schedule 6 to this Agreement).
Article VIII. Confidentiality
8.1. All legal, financial or any other information provided by the parties to each other and
associated with conclusion and execution of the present Agreement shall be considered
confidential.
8.2. The parties shall observe all reasonable precautions to prevent information leak to any third
party. The parties are authorized to disclose such information to a third party provided it is
involved in the activities requiring knowledge of this information but only in the amount



Attachment 2
Page 7 out of 9
which is necessary for implementation of the objectives of the present Agreement and only in
the case of respective consent of the parties.
8.3.  The limitations imposed on information disclosure do not relate to common-use information or
to information, which subsequently became common-use one but not due to any fault of the
parties, as well as to information to be submitted to the state authorities by valid legislation but
only in respect to the personnel of these authorities and to information which became known
by either party from other sources prior or after obtaining it from other party.
8.4. It is the party reporting any violation of the provisions of the present Article which shall prove
this violation.
Article IX. Responsibility
9.1. If the Sub-Borrower fails to fulfill any provision or obligation stipulated in the present
Agreement and this failure lasts for 10 days after the Sub-Borrower receives a failure-related
notification submitted by the Lender in the person of the RPC, the Lender is entitled -
(i)  to suspend the right of the Sub-Borrower to disburse the Sub-Loan;
(ii)  to arrange a documentary verification of the actual use of the Sub-Loan proceeds;
(iii) to terminate the present Agreement and demand early repayment of the Sub-Loan in
principal, repayment of the interest and other fees to be repaid by the Sub-Borrower in
accordance with the present Agreement.
9.1. In case of a misuse of the Sub-Loan proceeds, the Sub-Borrower shall pay a penalty in the
amount of 20 per cent annual of the amount misused during the entire period of the misuse. The
penalties shall be remitted to the federal budget.
Article X. Force Majeur
10.1. A party shall be relieved from any liability for partial or complete failure to fulfill its
obligations against the present Agreement if this failure became a result of force majeur
occurred after conclusion of the present Agreement due to extraordinary circumstances which
could not be foreseen or prevented by reasonable measures taken by the party.
These extraordinary circumstances include fire, flood, and other natural disasters, armed
hostilities, public disturbances, termination of the Loan Agreement.
10.2.  In case of occurrence of the above circumstances the party shall immediately submit a written
notification on them to other party. The notification shall include description of the
circumstances, and assessment of their influence on ability of the party to fulfill its
obligations against the present Agreement and on duration of fulfillment of the obligations.
10.3.  Upon termination of the circumstances listed in  para 1.1 of this Article, the party shall
immediately notify another party accordingly. The notification shall include the time period
anticipated for fulfillment of the obligations against the present Agreement.
10.4.  In the circumstances listed in para 10.1 of the present Article, the date of fulfillment of the
obligations by the parties against the present Agreement shall be delayed in proportion to the
time during which the above circumstances and their consequences last.
10.5.  In case of force majeur the parties shall perform mutual consultations in order to enter the
respective amendments in the present Agreement.



Attachment 2
Page 8 out of 9
Article XI. Disputes and Arbitration
11.1.  The Parties shall strive to settle all disputes and disagreements which may arise from the
present Agreement through negotiations.
11.2   When the above disputes fail to be settled through negotiations, they shall be settled by the
Arbitration Court in accordance with the applicable laws.
Article XII. Miscellaneous
12.1.  All notifications and requests of the Parties under the present Agreement shall be made in
writing and sent to the addresses indicated below or to an address to be timely indicated by
the respective Party.
12.2.  All modifications and amendments to the present Agreement shall be made in writing by
mutual consent of the Ministry of Finance and Sub-Borrower and endorsed by the authorized
persons.
12.3.  All amendments, modifications and appendices to the present Agreement shall constitute its
integral parts.
12.4.  None of the parties is entitled to assign its rights or obligations under the present Agreement
to any physical or legal entity without written consent of other Party.
12.5.  The present Agreement is made in two copies, one for each Party.
Article XIII. Effectiveness and Termination of Agreement
13.1.  The present Agreement shall become effective upon its signing by the Parties.
13.2.  The present Agreement may be terminated ahead of the expire date  by mutual written
agreement of the Parties.
13.3.  The present Agreement may be terminated ahead of the expire date unilaterally by the Lender
by submitting a written notification to the Sub-Borrower in the following cases -
i) termination of the Bank Account Agreement by the Sub-Borrower or Guarantor Bank;
ii) claiming of any third party to the money on the account of the Sub-Borrower or any threat
of the above claiming;
iii)occurrence of the Sub-Borrower's arrears against payments to the budgets of any level or
to state non-budget funds i.e. occurrence of the status of a debtor with the Sub-Borrower as
specified in Degree # 1212 of the President of the Russian Federation - "On Mechanisms
to Improve Collecting Taxes and Other Mandatory Payments and to Regulate Cash and
Non-Cash Circulation", dated August 18, 1996;
iv) submission of the instructions of the Sub-Borrower to the Guarantor Bank which cross the
Sub-Loan Agreement and objectives of the Project;
v) avoiding the fulfillment of the obligations or improper fulfillment of the obligations
stipulated in Article 6 of the present Agreement;
vi) in other cases specified in the present Agreement.



Attachment 2
Page 9 out of 9
Article XIV. Legal Addresses and Bank Details
Social-State fund "Russian Privatization Center"
Sub-Borrower
Lender                                                           Sub-Borrower
SCHEDULE 1
Sub-Loan Disbursement Schedule
SI No.          Sub-Loan Withdrawal Dates           Amount (in letters and figures)
Total:
SCHEDULE 2
Sub-Loan Amortization Schedule
SI. No.    Sub-Loan    Repayment Interest Repayment Dates   Amount (in letters and in
Dates                                             figures)
Total:
SCHEDULE 3
Request for Payment of Consultant Services
SCHEDULE 4
Restructuring Services Contract
SCHEDULE 5
Sub-Loan Account Agreement
SCHEDULE 6
Bank Guarantee
m \elena\erspdoc5\attch2 doc
05/08/97 10.53 AM






Attachment 3
Page 1 out of 8
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCUTRING SERVICES PROJECT
RESTRUCUTRING SERVICES CONTRACT
SMALL ASSIGNMENTS-TIME BASED
(IBRD/IDA FINANCED)
CONTRACT #_
THIS CONTRACT (together with all Annexes attached hereto and forming an integral part hereof,
hereinafter called the "Contract")  is entered into this    [day] day of       [month],
_ year], by and between               _name of Beneficiary Enterprise] (hereinafter
called  "the  Client")  having  its  principal  place  of  business  at       [location],
and                  [name of Consultant] (hereinafter called "the Consultant") having its
principal office located at [location].
WHEREAS:
The Government of the Russian Federation has received a loan (                     Loan
' )  from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) (hereinafter
called the "Loan") , to support                    , and, in accordance with the Agreement
between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Russian Privatization Center (hereinafter
called the "RPC") dated            , 199   , has authorized the RPC to manage the loan
proceeds. The Government of the Russian Federation intends to apply a portion of these funds to
eligible payments for Services under this Contract, it being understood (i) that the payments will be
made only at the request of the RPC, (ii) that such payments will be subject, in all respects, to the
terms and conditions of the agreements providing for the funds, and (iii) that no Party other than the
RPC shall derive any rights from the agreements providing for the funds or have any claim to the
proceeds.
In accordance with the Sub-loan Agreement '    dated      , 1997 between the RPC and the
Client, the Client has requested the Consultants to provide the services (hereinafter called the
"Services"),  and has requested the RPC  to provide financing for the Services, as defined
hereinafter.
The Consultants, having represented to the Client and the RPC that they have the required
professional skills, personnel and technical resources, have agreed to provide the Services on the
terms and conditions set forth in this Contract.
NOW THEREFORE THE PARTIES hereby agree as follows:
1.    Services
(i)    The Consultant shall perform  the services specified in Annex A, "Terms of
Reference and Scope of Services" which is made an integral part of this Contract
("the Services").



Attachment 3
Page 2 out of 8
(ii)   The Consultant shall provide the reports listed in Annex B, "Consultant's Reporting
Obligations," within the time periods listed in such Annex, and the personnel listed
in Annex C, "Cost Estimate of Services, List of Personnel and Schedule of Rates" to
perform the Services.
2.     Term
The Consultant shall perform the Services during the period commencing
[date] and continuing through              Idate] or any other period
as may be subsequently agreed by the parties in writing.
3.    Payment
A.    Ceiling
For Services rendered pursuant to Annex A, the Client shall cause to be paid to the
Consultant an amount not to exceed a ceiling of            [amount]. This
amount has been established based on the understanding that it includes all of the
Consultant's costs and profits as well as such taxes, duties, fees and other
impositions that may be levied on the Consultant. The payments made under the
Contract consist of the Consultant's remuneration as defined in sub-paragraph B
below and of the reimbursable expenditures, including direct costs, as defined in
sub-paragraph C below.
B.    Remuneration
The Client shall cause payment to the Consultant for Services rendered at the rate(s)
per man/month spent (or per day spent or per hour spent, subject to a maximum of
eight hours per day) in accordance with the rates agreed and specified in Annex C,
"Cost Estimate of Services, List of Personnel and Schedule of Rates."
C.    Reimbursables
The Client shall cause payment to the Consultant for reimbursable expenses, which
shall consist of and be limited to:
(i)    expenditures for official travel, accommodation, printing, and telephone
charges; official travel will be reimbursed at the cost of economy class
travel;
(ii)   such other expenses as approved in advance by the Client's coordinator.
D.    Payment Conditions
Payment shall be made in              name of currency] not later than thirty
(30) days following submission of:
(a)   invoices in duplicate to the Coordinator designated in  paragraph 4;
(b)    acceptance certificate approved by the Client and the RPC;



Attachment 3
Page 3 out of 8
for foreign consultants:
(c)    (i) a notification about the sources of income in the Russian Federation
marked by a Russian tax authority in accordance with the Law Governing
Contract (Clause 11);   or (ii) a properly executed application  for the
preliminary exemption from taxes on income from sources in the Russian
Federation in accordance with the Law Governing Contract (Clause 11).
E.    Consultant's representation
The Consultant has an accredited representation office on the territory of the Russian
Federation at the address:                , tel/fax numbers:           , registered
with the State Tax Service of the Russian Federation.The tax payer identification number
(INN) '                 . The Consultants have submitted to the Client (i) copy of the
registration certificate '  , (ii) copy of the tax registration certificate '
4.     Project Administration
A.    Coordinator
The Client designates Mr./Ms.            Lf_ull name] as Client's Coordinator
(approved by the RPC); the Coordinator shall be responsible for the coordination of
activities under the Contract, for receiving and approving invoices for payment, and
for acceptance of the deliverables by the Client.
B.    Timesheets
During the course of their work under this Contract, including field work, the
Consultant's employees providing services under this Contract may be required to
complete timesheets or any other document used to identify time spent, as well as
expenses incurred, as instructed by the Project Coordinator.
C.    Records and Accounts
The Consultant shall keep accurate and systematic records and accounts in respect of
the Services, which will clearly identify all charges and expenses. The Consultant
shall submit to the Client the originals of the aforementioned documents, such as:
airline and railway tickets, hotel bills, taxi receipts, telephone and mailing bills,
invoices for translation and other additional services, receipts for purchasing of
office supplies and originals of such other documents confirming the expenditure of
funds. The Client reserves the right to audit, or to nominate an accounting firm to
audit, the Consultant's records relating to amounts claimed under this Contract
during its term and any extension, and for a period of three months thereafter.
5.     Performance Standard
The Consultant undertakes to perform the Services with the highest standards of professional
and ethical competence and integrity. The Consultant shall promptly replace any employees
assigned under this Contract that the Client considers unsatisfactory.



Attachment 3
Page 4 out of 8
6.     Confidentiality
The Consultants shall not, during the term of this Contract and within two (2) years after its
expiration, disclose any proprietary or confidential information relating to the Services, this
Contract or the Client's business or operations without the prior written consent of the
Client.
7.     Ownership of Material
Any studies, reports or other material, graphic, software or otherwise, prepared by the
Consultant for the Client under the Contract shall belong and remain the property of the
Client. The Consultant may retain a copy of such documents and software and submit a
copy to the RPC for dissemination of experience.
8.     Consultant Precluded from Future Activities
(a)    The Consultant agrees that, during the term of this Contract and after its
termination, the Consultant and any entity affiliated with the Consultant, shall be disqualified
from providing goods, works or services to the Client (other than the Services or any
continuation thereof and other than services provided in the circumstances described in
paragraph (b) below) in connection with any project or undertaking of the Client resulting
from or closely related to the Services.
(b) Notwithstanding the disqualification provided for under paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Consultant and entities affiliated with the Consultant) shall be considered
eligible to be engaged by the Client for further services in connection with a project or
undertaking resulting from or envisaged by an enterprise restructuring plan developed for the
Client during the performance of the Services, to the extent that the Consultant (affiliated
entity) is qualified to perform such further services; and, to the extent that such engagement
may be accepted in conformity with the applicable laws, business and industry regulations
and norms of professional conduct, including, inter alia, standards pertaining to the
protection of the Client's interests and avoidance of conflicts of interest. If any part of such
future services are to be paid out of the Loan, the future engagement shall be subject to the
approval of the RPC.
9.     Insurance
The Consultant will be responsible for taking out any appropriate insurance coverage in
respect of Services under the present Contract.
10.    Assignment
The Consultant shall not assign this Contract or subcontract or any portion of it without the
prior written consent of the Client and the RPC.
11.    Law Governing Contract and Language
The Contract shall be governed by the laws of the Russian Federation, and the language of
the Contract shall be the Russian language.



Attachment 3
Page 5 out of 8
12.   Dispute Resolution
FOR FOREIGN CONTRACTOR:
Any dispute, controversy or claim between the Parties as to matters arising out of or in
connection with this Contract, or the execution, breach, termination or invalidity thereof,
which cannot be settled amicably within thirty (30) days after receipt by one Party of the
other Party's request for such amicable settlement shall be settled in the International
Commercial Arbitration Court (ICAC) of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the
Russian Federation through binding arbitration in accordance with its Rules.
FOR DOMESTIC CONTRACTOR:
Any dispute between the Parties as to matters arising pursuant to this Agreement which
cannot be settled amicably within thirty (30) days after receipt by one Party of the other
Party's request for such amicable settlement shall be submitted by either Party to arbitration
court in accordance with the Law Governing Contract (Clause 1 1).
13. Force Maieure
A.    Definition
For the purposes of this Contract, "Force Majeure" means an event which is beyond
the reasonable control of a Party and which makes a Party's performance of its
obligations under the Contract impossible or so impractical as to be considered
impossible under the circumstances.
B.    No Breach of Contract
The failure of a Party to fulfill any of its obligations under the contract shall not be
considered to be a breach of, or default under, this Contract insofar as such inability
arises from an event of Force Majeure, provided that the Party affected by such an
event (a) has taken all reasonable precautions, due care and reasonable alternative
measures in order to carry out the terms and conditions of this Contract, and (b) has
informed the other Party as soon as possible about the occurrence of such an event,
provided, however, that the other Party may require the Party claiming to be affected
by the event of Force Majeure to provide, in instances where evidence or
certification of the event of Force Majeure is capable of being provided in
accordance with local custom or the Applicable Law, satisfactory written evidence
of the nature and cause of such event in the form of official certification by the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry or such other evidence as the Parties may
otherwise agree to in writing.



Attachment 3
Page 6 out of 8
C.    Extension of Time
Any period within which a Party shall, pursuant to this Contract, complete any
action or task, shall be extended for a period equal to the time during which such
Party was unable to perform such action as a result of Force Majeure, however, not
exceeding ten (10) days after the cessation of the event of Force Majeure.
D. Payments
During the period of occurrence of the event of Force Majeure for the Consultant,
the Consultant shall be entitled to continue to be paid under the terms of this
Contract, as well as to be reimbursed for additional costs reasonably and necessarily
incurred by them during such period for the purposes of the Services, subject to
approval by the Client and the RPC, and in reactivating the Services after the end of
such period.
14.   Termination
A.    By the Client
The Client may terminate this Contract, by not less than thirty (30) days' written
notice of termination to the Consultant, to be given after the occurrence of any of the
events specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this Clause 14 (A) and sixty (60)
days' in the case of the event referred to in (d):
(a) if the Consultant do not remedy a failure in the performance of their obligations
under the Contract, within thirty (30) days after being notified or within any further
period as the RPC may have subsequently approved in writing;
(b) if the Consultant become insolvent or bankrupt;
(c) if, as the result of Force Majeure, the Consultant are unable to perform a material
portion of the Services for a period of not less than thirty (30) days; or
(d) if the Client, in its sole discretion, decides to terminate this Contract.
B.    By the Consultant
The Consultant may terminate this Contract, by not less than thirty (30) days' written
notice to the Client, such notice to be given after the occurrence of any of the events
specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Clause 14(B):
(a) if the Client fails to cause payments of any monies due to the Consultant
pursuant to this Contract and not subject to dispute pursuant to Clause 7 within forty-
five (45) days after receiving written notice from the Consultant that such payment is
overdue; or
(b) if, as the result of Force Majeure, the Consultant is unable to perform a material
portion of the Services for a period of not less than thirty (30) days;.



Attachment 3
Page 7 out of 8
C.    Payment upon Termination
Upon termination of this Contract pursuant to Clauses 14(A) or 14(B), the Client
shall cause the following payments to the Consultants:
(a) remuneration pursuant to Clause 3 for Services satisfactorily performed prior to
the effective date of termination;
(b) except in the case of termination pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of Clause
14(A), reimbursement of any reasonable cost incident to the prompt and orderly
termination of the Contract, including the cost of the return travel of the Personnel
and their eligible dependents.
15.    Consultant's Actions Requiring Client's Prior Approval
The Consultant shall obtain the Client's prior approval in writing before taking any of the
following actions:
(a) entering into a subcontract for the performance of any part of the Services,
(b) appointing such members of its personnel not listed by name in Annex C, and
(c) any other action that may be specified by the Client.
16.    Limitation of the Consultants' Liability towards the Client
OPTION 1:
The Consultants' liability under this Contract shall be as provided by the Applicable Law.
OPTION 2 (from standard time-based contract):
(a)    Except in case of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the
Consultants or on the part of any person or firm acting on behalf of the Consultants in
carrying out the Services, the Consultants, with respect to damage caused by the Consultants
to the Client's property, shall not be liable to the Client:
(i)    for any indirect or consequential loss or damage; and
(ii)   for any direct loss or damage that exceeds (A) the total payments for professional
fees and reimbursable expenditures made or expected to be made to the Consultants
hereunder, or (B) the proceeds the Consultants may be entitled to receive from any insurance
maintained by the Consultants to cover such a liability, whichever of (A) or (B) is higher.
(b)    This limitation of liability shall not affect the Consultants' liability, if any, for
damage to Third Parties caused by the Consultants or any person or firm acting on behalf of
the Consultants in carrying out the Services.



Attachment 3
Page 8 out of 8
FOR THE CLIENT:                           FOR THE CONSULTANT:
Signed by                                 Signed by
Title:                                    Title:
I hereby confirm the eligibility of the Consultant who was duly chosen in accordance with the
procedures applicable under the Project, and certify that I have read the present Contract and
understand and agree to the terms and conditions set out under the present Contract.
FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE RPC:
General Director
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex A:     Terns of Reference and Scope of Services
Annex B:     Consultant's Reporting Obligations
Annex C:     Cost Estimate of Services, List of Personnel and Schedule of Rates
m:008ena9erpdoc5 . a03 c3 A c
05Z0 V97 lI :03 AM



Attachment 4
Page I out of 9
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP) FOR
THE PRE-QUALIFICATION OF CONSULTING FIRMS FOR THE
RESTRUCTURING SERVICES COMPONENT
A.           LETTER OF INVITATION TO BID
RUSSIAN PRIVATIZATION CENTER
Gruzinsky Val                                                Tel.: 7(095)7 258 6880
Electrichesky Pereulok 3,                                    Fax: 095)   258 6806
Building 3, Entrance 3,
P.O. Box 48
Moscow 123557, Russia
(DATE)
LETTER OF INVITATION TO BID
(Firm Name
and Address)
Dear
Re: Pre-qualification of Consulting Firms for the Enterprise Restructuring
Services Project (ERSP)
Russian Privatization Center--Russian Federation
1.    You are hereby invited to submit your proposal for pre-qualification of your firm as a potential
provider of consulting services under the Enterprise Restructuring Services Project. The Technical
Proposal should clearly indicate the area(s) of expertise, and be submitted separately from the Financial
Proposal.
2.    To enable you to submit a proposal, please find enclosed:



Attachment 4
Page 2 out of 9
a) Terms of Reference (TOR) - Attachment 1;
b) Supplementary information for consultants, including a suggested format for curriculum
vitae - Attachment 2;
3.     Funding for this program  is expected to be provided by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD hereinafter the World Bank), for which the executing agent is
the Russian Privatization Center (RPC), operating under the aegis of the Russian Ministry of Economy,
and the Russian Ministry of Finance.
4.     The proposal should follow the form given in the Supplementary Information for Consultants
(Attachment 2). The evaluation of proposals will be based on a purely technical approach. However, a
financial proposal including daily rates per category of personnel and proposed general expenses for
living and travel should be provided in a separate, sealed envelope.
5.     Firms should submit proposals written in English. They may, at their option, include a Russian
translation to facilitate proposal evaluation. In case of any discrepancies, ambiguities, or omissions, the
English version will be treated as the official version. Russian firms should submit proposals written in
Russian. They may, at their option, include an English translation to facilitate proposal evaluation. In
case of any discrepancies, ambiguities, or omissions, the Russian version will be treated as the prevailing
version.
6.     Russian firms on their own (with no foreign partners) should submit proposals written in the
Russian language.
Technical Proposal
7.     The Technical Proposal should clearly indicate the area(s) of expertise, and be submitted
separately from the Financial Proposal. Technical Proposals will be evaluated on the basis of the
following criteria and scoring:
7.1.   The firm's general experience in the field (10 points);
7.2.   Quality of the proposed methodology and approach (40 points);
7.3.   Competence, experience and skills of the proposed staff (45 points); and
7.4.   Extent of cooperation with local consultants, individuals and firms (5 points).
8.     Curriculum vitae (CV) for each individual to be involved in the ERSP project should be
included, following the format of the sample given the Supplementary Information (Attachment 2).
Evaluation of the proposed staff under 7.3. above will be based on the following criteria and scoring:



Attachment 4
Page 3 out of 9
(a)    background and education relevant to the area of expertise applied for (10 points);
(b)    experience in the field of expertise applied for (15 point);
(c)    field experience in transition economies in the region, in the expertise applied for (10
points);
(d)    relevance of qualification for the proposed position in the team (5 points);
(e)    ability to work using the Russian language (5 points).
9.     Please note that the RPC is not obligated to select any of the firms submitting proposals. Only
firms whose proposals score at least 75 points, including at least 30 points for the "quality of
methodology and approach" criterion (7.2) will be included in the Roster of pre-qualified consultants.
10.    You are requested to hold your proposal valid for 60 days from the date of submission, during
which time you will maintain, without change, the personnel proposed for the assignment. Every effort
will be made to arrive at a selection within this period. If your firm is prequalified, you will have to
make personnel included in your bid available for specific restructuring assignments for the next 12
months or to commit to replacing any of the initially proposed team members with staff of equal or
better technical expertise and qualification.
11.    Please note that the cost of preparing a proposal, including travel to Russia, will not be
reimbursable.
12.   If your firm does not have all the expertise required for prequalification, there is no objection to
your firm submitting a proposal in association with another firm or firms and/or organization(s) i.e.,
through a consortium or an association. Such association should provide the full range of expertise
required for prequalification.
Financial Proposal
13.    The Financial proposal under this Letter of Invitation to Bid will not be used to rank the
applications for pre-qualification. However, the prequalified firms commit themselves to a schedule of
fees quoted in financial proposals and applicable to future individual restructuring contracts. Agreement
to comply with this requirement is a condition of pre-qualification.
14.    Four copies of your Technical proposal and one copy of the Financial proposal should be
delivered on or before                      to:
Mr. Michael Ermolov
Chief Procurement Officer
Russian Privatization Center



Attachment 4
Page 4 out of 9
Gruzinsky Val
Elektrichesky Pereulok 3
Building 3, Entrance 3
Moscow, Russia 123557
15.    The proposal should be submitted with the technical and financial proposals in separate, sealed
envelopes, clearly identified. The technical proposal is to contain no price information. Financial
proposals will be opened and may be discussed prior to final inclusion of a firm in the Roster of the
prequalified firms. Financial proposals of non-qualified bidders shall be retumed unopened.
Russian Tax Regulations.
16.    Please be informed that under current Russian tax regulations remuneration under individual
restructuring and other service contracts with enterprises are subject to corporate income tax, a value-
added tax and, possible, other tax liabilities. Information on such tax regulations can be obtained from
the Tax Department of the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation or State Tax Inspectorate. In
accordance with the Russian tax legislation and IBRD Disbursement Rules the Loan proceeds my be
paid to Russian or foreign companies only if they are acting on the territory of the Russian Federation
through a registered representation.
17.    We would appreciate your informing us by fax as soon as possible:
a) your receipt of this Letter of Invitation;
b) whether or not you will be submitting a proposal; and
c) when submitting the proposal, the date and mode of its shipment.
Sincerely,
General Director,
Russian Privatization Center
Non-qualified bidders are the firms whose proposals do not reach the score of at least 75 points as defined in para 9.



Attachment 4
Page 5 out of 9
B.  GENERIC TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PRE-QUALIFICATION.
RUSSIAN PRIVATIZATION CENTER
Gruzinsky Val                                                   Tel.: 7(095)7 258 6880
Electrichesky Pereulok 3,                                       Fax: 095)   258 6806
Building 3, Entrance 3,
P.O. Box 48
Moscow 123557, Russia
Attachment 1
Enterprise Restructuring Services Project (ERSP)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for pre-qualification of consulting companies
BACKGROUND
1.    The Enterprise Restructuring Services Project (ERSP) - see description in Annex I - is expected
to be financed by a World Bank Loan to the Government of Russia. The two main objectives of the
project are:
(a)   to restructure some 250-300 medium and large privatized enterprises which would
borrow funds (i.e. sign a sub-loan agreement) to pay for consulting services to undertake a
restructuring sub-project;
(b)   to catalyze the development of the Russian market for restructuring consulting services.
2.     The Russian Privatization Center (RPC) will be the Implementing Agency for the Loan and will
coordinate the preparation of sub-projects. The RPC will also evaluate and submit the sub-projects
together with a sub-loan request to the ERSP Evaluation Committee, as well as monitor the sub-projects
and manage the payments.
OBJECTIVES
3.     The objective of this procedure is to establish a Roster of consulting firms, pre-qualified to
provide consulting services under the ERSP sub-projects. The Terms of Reference describe the scope of
services required under the project.



Attachment 4
Page 6 out of 9
ROSTER OF PRE-QUALIFIED CONSULTING FIRMS
4.     Pre-qualified consulting firms will be registered in the Roster under the following specialization:
(a) General Business Management Consulting (including marketing, finance, tax and legal
advice, organizational restructuring, investor search),
(b) Information Technology,
(c) Human Resource Management,
(d) General Industrial Engineering Consulting (including environmental, energy efficiency,
process and quality control, production efficiency, material handling),
(e) Sector-specific Industrial Consulting (one sector only according to SIC code)
5.     The Roster will be used for recruitment of qualified consultants and for market-based selection
of sub-projects in the following cases:
1.     submission  of sub-project proposals prepared jointly by enterprises and
consultants;
2.     selection of consulting firms by potential beneficiary enterprises, with the
assistance of RPC.
6.     RPC and the enterprise will select the consultant in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
World Bank.
7.     The Roster will be made available to all the stake-holders of the ERSP Project as the source of
qualified main consultants2 for beneficiary enterprises to select consulting firms for their individual
restructuring contracts. The Roster will consequently include, and provide the following information
concerning the consulting firms:
-  short description of the firm;
-  main contact and address;
-  optional references (contact and address) of Russian enterprises with whom the firm has
worked in the past;
-  field(s) of expertise for which the consulting firm has been pre-qualified;
2Main consultant: will sign and take full responsibility for each sub-project under contract with the beneficiary enterprises. The
main consultant may use sub-consultants.



Attachment 4
Page 7 out of 9
-  CVs of staff likely to participate in the ERSP Project;
8.    In order to ensure the continued availability of requisite technical expertise, and to guarantee
that consultant fees and charges remain within acceptable and predictable limits, the RPC will register
the fees and charges quoted in the Financial proposal in the letter confirming inclusion in the Roster. The
consultants will in turn sign separate individual contracts with the beneficiary enterprises for each
undertaken sub-project on the basis of registered fees and charges.
SCOPE OF WORK
Commitment of Consulting Firms
9.     The consulting firms to be included in the Roster commit themselves to guarantee the following:
1. the level of qualification, skills and experience of the consulting staff assigned to any sub-
project, based on the experts proposed as required for admission to the ERSP Roster;
2. the overall quality of the services to be provided, based on the methodology and generic
approach described below;
3. the daily fees for each category of expert staff assigned to any sub-project, as negotiated
with the RPC as a condition of registration in the Roster;
4. the level of travel and living expenses for consultants in Russia or abroad, negotiated with
the RPC.
10.    The pre-qualified consulting firms will have to demonstrate their ability to provide relevant
service to Russian enterprises in the Russian business and institutional context, and to this end are
encouraged to use Russian individual consultants or sub-contract local firms for each sub-project
implemented. To this end, a database of Russian consulting firms is available at RPC (at no cost to
users) as a source of reference for your company, who may not be familiar with the available source of
local consultant expertise. You are under no obligation to select sub-contractors from the database.
Restructuring Methodology and Approach
11.    For each targeted specialization, based on their previous experience, and on concrete examples,
the consulting firms are required to describe, in their proposal, the generic restructuring approach and
methodology they intend to use in each typical beneficiary enterprise. The key features and parameters
to be covered include the following:
*  description of a typical enterprise;
*  composition of typical team envisaged (use real CVs of current staff);



Attachment 4
Page 8 out of 9
*  critical path description of the restructuring process;
*  interface with the enterprise management;
*  head office support and supervision during implementation;
*  deliverables;
*  partnership and/sub-contracting arrangements with Russian firms (if applicable).
Generation of Sub-Project Proposals
12.    Once pre-qualified, the consulting firms will be encouraged and expected to prepare jointly with
the potential beneficiary enterprise specific sub-project proposals and submit them to RPC. The
beneficiary enterprise must obtain preliminary proposals from at least two different pre-qualified firms
from the ERSP Roster for restructuring services contracts of the amount above US$300,000. For
contracts of smaller amounts the beneficiary enterprise may obtain only one proposal. The selection
process for contracts for amounts exceeding US$300,000 will be undertaken by the enterprise itself,
taking into consideration quality of the preliminary proposal, practical experience of the firm and other
objective criteria. If necessary, RPC would provide assistance in the selection. The selected firm will
then further develop jointly with an enterprise a complete restructuring proposal (Sub-Project) to be
submitted to RPC.
13.    Following the above selection procedure (when applicable) carried out by the enterprise, the
sub-projects will be screened by the RPC in accordance with specified evaluation criteria for
consideration by the ERSP Evaluation Committee3.
14.    The consultants should indicate in their proposal the approach they will use to generate sub-
projects, which resources they will mobilize for this, and how this relates to their normal commercial
operations.
Supplementary information
15.    RPC will provide to the pre-qualified consulting firms comprehensive guidelines for preparation
and submission of sub-project proposals. A draft sub-loan agreement, general evaluation criteria for sub-
projects, and a draft contract for restructuring services will also be provided as additional background
and reference documentation.
3to be attached as per attachment 1.



Attachment 4
Page 9 out of 9
Updating and Renewal of the Roster of Consultants
16.    Non-performing consultants, as defined below, will be excluded from the Roster and their name
deleted, following an annual review of the Roster. Will be considered non-performing the following
types of consultants:
-  Consultants that have performed poorly on previous ERSP sub-projects, as determined both
by the RPC and the beneficiary enterprise following a sub-project completion and
performance review;
-  Consultants that have failed to submit any winning proposals in the last 12 months, starting
one month after their registration;
-  Consultants that have submitted three consecutive sub-projects rejected by the RPC or the
Evaluation Committee.
m-\elena\erspdoc3\attach4 doc
May 8, 1997 5:40 PM






Attachment 5
Page 1 out of 8
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimation of Restructuring Demand
1.    Assumptions. Based on the demand assessment (Project Files), the RPC estimates that over
1,800 enterprises will be reached through Local Privatization Centers (LPCs), banks, investment funds,
financial groups, consulting firms, etc. Given the historic absence of consulting services in the country,
many of them may be not convinced of the benefits to be achieved. Some other may not meet the
eligibility criteria. Approximately 755 eligible enterprises would submit their Sub-Projects. A
systematic screening process, described below, would reduce this number to 253 approved Sub-Projects.
RPC Processing Activities
2.    Initial Contact. The 755 eligible enterprises will fill a detailed application form (available on
Files) prepared by the RPC. They will be contacted by a staff of the regional LPC and or a consulting
firm to discuss in detail with top management the enterprise restructuring needs and to verify the
eligibility criteria. It is expected that some enterprises will be unable either to clearly articulate their
restructuring needs, or to demonstrate commitment to implement restructuring plans consistently,
including possible painful measures (e.g., down sizing, closure of some production units). Some of them
would neither be able to select consultants competitively by themselves, nor willing to let the RPC to
procure consultants for them. This process is expected to reduce the number of eligible enterprises by 20
percent, thus leaving 604 enterprises whose requests would be further reviewed by the RPC.
3.    RPC Pre-screening. The 604 remaining companies would undergo a pre-screening process,
whereby Sub-Project proposals would be reviewed by the RPC and either accepted or rejected based on
the evaluation criteria (Attachment 1). Four hundred and thirty-six enterprises (436) are expected to
remain after eliminating 168 enterprises (i.e., 28%).
4.     Screening by Bank Guarantors. Sub-Projects would also be screened by Banks Guarantors.
Their due-diligence assessment is expected to eliminate further about 30 percent of applicants. This
would leave about 304 enterprises whose sub-projects would be fully appraised. Managers of these
companies would be invited to meet with the RPC to conduct a pre-loan review. This stage entails
decisions over the scope of work to be performed, the proposed work plan, detailed terms of reference
(TOR), proposed budget and expected outcomes (i.e., restructuring to be achieved and expected cash
flow generation). The result of this work would be a draft Sub-Loan Agreement (SLA).
5.    Evaluation Committee. The Evaluation Committee (EC) would make the final decision on
candidate Sub-Projects based on the same evaluation criteria (Attachment 1) and any other relevant
information. It is expected that the EC would reject about 17 % of Sub-projects and approve 253
contracts. The results of screening process are summarized in the table below.



Attachment 5
Page 2 out of 8
:SCREENliNG STAGE  Casualt   ELGBLE COPNISRMANG
Year   1       2     3      4   TOTAL
1. Eligible Companies        0%           124    195   266   170    755
2. Non Interest             20%           99    156   213   136    604
3. RPC Pre-Screening        28%           71    112   153    98       434
4. BG Screening             28%           50      78    107    69      304
5. Evaluation Committee     17%           42      65    89    57      253
6.    Contracts and Procurement. Upon approval of a Sub-Project by Evaluation Committee, the RPC
would help the enterprise to finalize contractual process. Based on experience gained from the donor-
funded programs, RPC estimates the average size of Sub-Loans at about US$ 300,000. With 253
enterprises participating in the ERSP, the sub-loan component of this project totals US$ 75 million.
7.    Monitoring. The RPC would monitor the contracted work between the enterprise and the
consultant. This would entail periodic site visits, correspondence reviews, activity records, consolidation
of statements on the Sub-Loan performance, etc.
Estimation of Budget of ERSP Unit in RPC
8.    Assumptions for the estimated Incremental Operating Expenditures of the ERSP Group at
RPC/LPCs (Table I) are based on actual RPC costs and staff input per category of preparatory and
monitoring activities, and other general and administrative overhead expenses per contract. Annual
expenditures vary according to the number of companies being considered. As agreed during project
preparation and negotiations, ERSP Group expenditures will be refinanced 100 percent by the IBRD.
Over the course of the four-year implementation of the ERSP, IBRD would refinance a total of US$ 6.2
million of the ERSP Group operating costs.
9.    Detailed assumptions for the cost break-down for the supplementary components are available
on Project Files and are not presented in this attachement ( per request of the GOR).



Attachment 5
Page 3 out of 8
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)'
Component            Local | Percent   Foreign  | Percent   Total  | Percent
Restructuring Services          46.0      46.0        44.0      44.0      90.0      90.0
Market Information               0.2       0.2        0.38       0.4       0.6       0.6
Restructuring Promotion          0.3       0.3        0.41       0.4       0.7       0.7
Ex-Post Evaluation (sub-comp.)   0.7       0.7           0       0.0       0.7       0.7
RPC Project Management Cost      6.4       100           0       0.0       6.4       6.4
Total Baseline Costs   53.5       53.5       44.8      44.8       98.3     98.3
Contingencies      1.2       1.2         0.4       0.4       1.6       1.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST              54.7      54.7        45.2      45.2     100.0    100.0
Project Financing Plan.
10.   The IBRD Loan will finance the following project costs (see table below):
(a)    100%  of individual Sub-Loans to enterprises under the Restructuring Services
Component. The amount of a Sub-Loan will be determined as the amount of an approved
restructuring Sub-project (net of taxes) minus the contribution pledged by the enterprise.
(b)    100% of other consulting services under the
(i)    Ex-post Evaluation sub-component;
(ii)   Restructuring Promotion component;
(iii)   Market Information Improvement component;
(iv)   Audit of Project Accounts
Figures may not total due to rounding
2 Including Operating Expenses of ERSP Unit and Audit of Project Accounts



Attachment 5
Page 4 out of 8
Project Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Compopents ,R atalm
Amounts  Percent Amounts Percent  Amounts Percent
Restructuring Services          75.00    83.3    15.00      16.7    90.00         90
Market Information                0.6    100                           0.6       0.6
Restructuring Promotion           0.7    100                           0.7       0.7
Ex-Post Evaluation (sub-comp)      0.7    100                          0.7       0.7
RPC Project Management Cost       6.4    100                           6.4       6.4
Contingencies                      1.6    100                          1.6       1.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST               85.0    85.0        15       15     100.0     100.0
11.   Sub-Loan Disbursement. Payments made on consulting contracts and disbursements from the
IBRD Loan are presented in Table 11. Assumptions for contract implementation and invoicing by
consultant are also based on RPC's experience and practice. Restructuring activities are expected to last
12 months on average, and invoicing to continue through the fourth quarter, including the payment at
contract signing. It is estimated that payments from the RPC to the contracted consulting firms would
follow the schedule below:
Percentage of Contract Cost Paid
Payment 1           20% during I st qrter after signing
Payment 2           30% during 2nd qrter after signing
Payment 3           30% during 3rd qrter after signing
Payment 4           20%  12 months after signing
Average Contract (USD)*       300,000
12.   Estimated quarterly disbursements on all contracts and other components are detailed in Table II,
including operating expenses of RPC's ERSP Group, and supplementary components. Total anticipated
quarterly disbursements from the IBRD loan are shown along with the cumulative disbursements.



Attachment 5
Page 5 out of 8
Cost Recovery Analysis
13.   Assuming a minimum default rate of 10 percent by sub-borrowers, repayments of sub-loan
principal and interest will start covering interest and commissions on the IBRD Loan less than two years
after start of project implementation. A the end of 18 months of project implementation the GOR will
thus generate a positive net cash-flow of US$ 295,000. This net positive cash-flow generation will be
maintained and increased from that point thanks to the five year grace period on principal repayment to
the IBRD. During the grace period sub-loan interests and principal repayments will exceed repayments
of interest and commissions to the IBRD, i.e., through year 5 after start of project implementation, thus
generating a cumulative positive cash-flow of US$ 27.2 million. As principal repayments to IBRD start
in year 6, the positive available cash-flow and sub-loan repayments would add up and continue to exceed
IBRD repayments through year 11 after start of project. As sub-loan repayments end around year 9 the
cumulative positive cash flow start to diminishing reaching a plateau at US$ 3.7 million in year 11.
Thereafter the cumulative cash-flow becomes negative through year 17.
14.   The GOR would therefore not only generate a substantial cash-flow from sub-loan repayments
but would also generate substantial fiscal revenue from the VAT paid by sub-borrowers on fees paid to
consultants during project implementation. Therefore, even taking into account the cost of the non-cost-
recovered components ( Restructuring Promotion, Market Information Improvement, Ex-Post Evaluation
and the cost of the Project Implementation) the project will be, at worse, fiscally neutral.



ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT                                                                 Attachment 5
TABLE 1: RPC/LPCs - Incremental Operating Expenses                                                     Page 6 out of 8
Total             Oct 1997- Dcc 1998             PY 2                     PY 3                     PY 4
USD        Percent      USD         Percent      USD    I  Percent        USD    I  Percent        USD        Percent
Number of applying enterprises                            755                      149                     225                      236                      145
Number of approved sub-loans                              250                       50                      75                       80                       45
RPC Staff:
PIU Manager                                                                       I            I                                   I
Restructuring Specialists                                                         5                       9                        9                        6
Procurement Specialists                                                           2                       3                        3                        2
Accountant                                                                        I                        I                       I                        I
Disbursement Specialists                                                          2                        2                       2                        2
Lawyer                                                                            I                        I                       I                        I
Support Staff                                                                     3                       4                        4                        3
Total staffpositions                                                           Is                      21                       21                       16
RPC Incremental Operating Expenses (Net)
Staff salaries                                      2,125,375        34.6     511,875         27.6    582,500          39.5    582,500         37.7    448,500          35.5
Other operating expenses
Domestic travel (on-site supervision)              327,500          5.3      87,500          4.7     90,000          6.1      90,000          5.8      60,000          4.7
Communication                                      147,375          2.4      39,375          2.1     40,500          2.7      40,500          2.6      27,000          2.1
Rent payments (@850 per m2)                        350,000          5.7                              70,000                  140,000                  140,000
G@A (supplies, R@M, utilities, etc.)               316,800          5.2      94,560          5.1     78,000          5.3      80,000          5.2      64,240          5.1
Equipment upgrade and replacement                     80,000          1.3      60,000          3.2      10,000          0.7     10,000          0.6                     0.00
Sub-Total: RPC net incremental expense              3,347,050        54.5     793,310         42.7    871,000          59.0    943,000         61.0    739,740          58.5
LPCs Incremental Operating Expenscs (Net)
Staff position (nine regions)                                                       9                        9
Staff salaries                                       573,750          9.3     168,750          9.1    135,000           9.2    135,000          8.7    135,000          10.7
Other operating expenses
Travel (on-site supervision)                      130,050          2.1      38,250          2.1      30,600          2.1     30,600           2.0     30,600          2.4
Communication                                     139,400          2.3      41,000          2.2      32,800          2.2     32,800           2.1     32,800          2.6
G@A (supplies, R@M, utilities, etc.)              117,900           1.9     34,560           1.9     30,600          2.1      30,600          2.0     22,140           1.8
Equipment upgrade and replacement                     43,800          0.7      37,800          2.0      2,000          0.1       2,000          0.1       2,000          0.2
Sub-total: LPCs net Incremental expense            1,004,900         16.4     320,360         17.3    231,000         15.7    231,000          14.9    222,540          58.5
Sub-total: RPC and LPC ERSP incremental            4,351,950         70.8   1,113,670         60.0  1,102,000         74.7  1,174,000          75.9    962,280          76.1
Foreign consultant to RPC (2)                     400,000          6.5    400,000          21.5                      0.0                     0.0                      0.0
Social Charges                                  1,391,613        22.70     342,863         18.5    373,030          25.3    373,030         24.1    302,690          23.9
RPC/LPC Total Incremental Cost                  6,143,563       100.00   1,866,633          100   1,475,030         100   1,547,030          100   1,264,970          100
Financial Adviser to Evaluation Committee             84,000                   24,000                  20,000                   20,000                  20,000
Total ERSP Implementation Cost                     6,227,663                1,880,533               1,495,030                1,567,030                1,284,970
Audit of Project Account                    240,000                   60,000                   60,000                   60,000                  60,000



Attachment 5
Page 7 out of 8
Table II: Payments and Disbursement Schedule (US $ '000)
YEAR      I                      YEAR      2                     YEAR       3                     YEAR      4                     YEAR      5
Sub-len made:      42            Sub-loan Bade:       66         Sub-loamn made:       89         Sub-loo  made:        57         Sub-loans made:       0
Jan     Apr    Jul      Oct    Jan       Apr    Jul      Oct    Jan      Apr    Jul       Oct    Jan      Apr    Jul      Oct    Jan    Apr    Jul         Oct
o.ConracasSigned               9       11      11       11      35      17      17       17      23      22      22      22      15      14       14      34      0       0       0       0
,meml                     540     660      660     660     900   1.020   1.020   1.020   1,330   1,320   1,320   1.320      900      840     840     840     00       00     (30      00
y    2                                                  810      990     990     990   1.350   1,530   1.530   1.530   2.070   1,980   1,980   1,980   1,350  1.260   1,260   1.260         00
yme3                                                                     s3o     990     990      990   1,350   1.530   1,530   1,530   2,070   1,980   1,980   1,980   3,350   1,260   1.260
ncn 4                                                                            540     660      d60     660     900   1,020   1.020   1.020   1,330   1,320   1.320   1,320      900     84
IlsBuRSEMENT: Contrac           540      660     660   1,470  I5.0   2,820   3.540   4.020   4,560   4,860   5.280   5.940   5,430   5.910   6,180   5,490  4.560   3,930   3,420   2.100
DIS8URSEMENT: RPC               257      257     257     257     404     404      404     404     546     546     546      546     350     350     350     350      00      00      00      00
DISBURSEMENT: Pnalon             97       97      97      97      tl       l      81      81
DISBURSEMENT: Ex-Pou Eval.       00       00      00      00      27      27       27      27      53      53      53      53       53      53      53      53      45      45      45      45
DISBURSEME :market Info          35       35      35      35      25      25       25      25      25      25      25      25       25      25      25      25      25      25      25      25
DISBURSEMENT: Audit        _                                              60                               60                               60                              60
.1*3 QrtlyDlbusuents            929   1.049   1.049   1.159   2.427   3.417   4,077   4.557   5,184   5.54    5,904   6.564   5.85,   6.398   6608   5.918  4,630   4,060   3,490   2,170
urn Di*d nds (nRD)              929   1.978   3,027   4,886   7.313  10.730  34,807  19,364  24.548  30,092  35.996  42.560  48.41S  54,816  61,424  67,342  71,972  76,032  79.522  81,692
Low Req_ to GOR               00       00      00      00      179     397     615    833   1,131   1,468   1,805   2,342   2.59,   3,035   3,473   3,908  4.05   4,483   4,760   5,038
BRD LOAN
Prindal Ousuundlng               929   1,973   3,027   4,336   7,313  10,730  14,307  19.364  24,543  30.092  35,996  42,560  48.413  54.316  61,424  67,342 71.972  76.032  79,522  81.692
1aw       Due                                     44      6      107      358    223      299     384     473     578     687     796      903   3,037   1.127  3,219   1.295   3,361   1,411
Comm_Fem                                 303             1                92               82              63              53               37              22              1               0
ap3  by GOR           ___I



Attachment 5
Page 8 out of 8
Table n: (continued)
YEAR      6                     YEAR      7                     YEAR      8
Jan    Apr    Jul       Oct    Jan      Apr    Jul      Oct    Jan      Apr    Jul      Oct
o. Cntracs Signed             0           0       0       0   0           0       0       0I0             0       0       0
Pynm1                           00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00
P    2                          00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      0o      00      00      00
ylt 3                         1,260     00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00
yn  4                 --       840    8         00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00
DGSBURSEMENT: Contracts      2.100     840      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00      00  76,
DlSBUREEt: RPC                                                                                                                 6,22
DISBURSEMENT Proamodon                                                                                                          71
DISBURSEI4NT: Ex-Post Eval.                                                                                                      71
SBIURSEMENT: Market Info                                                                                                        5
. DISBURSEMENT: Audit                                                                                                           2
Qtly Dab.rmmu               2.00       4       00      00      00      00                              00      00      00  84.63
un msunebs  IBRD)            83.,792   4,632  U4.632  U4.632  84,632  S4,632                       .
Rep t to GOR               4,J60   4.641   4,423   4,205   3.908   3,570   3.233   2.896   2,440   2,003   1,567   1,131   80,611
LRDOAN
rincl Oustund_                83,3792  11.106  81.106  77,5S0  77.5380  74,054  74,054  70,528  70.528  67,002  67.002  63,476
latecetDue*                   1.448   l.443   1.419   1.389   1,359   1.327   1.296   1.265   1,234   1,203   1,173   1.142  48.
Cmmukaet P.'                            00                                                                                      57
Rpd by GOR                 3.526           3,526           3.526           3.526           3,52t           3,526            4,62
m:%cIe.nanpdoC5\Wtach5 doc
05/06/971 I2E PM



Attachment 6
Page 1 out of 1
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
(US$ Thousand, Baseline Cost)
Contract Type               Contracts    Contracts   Procurement Method             RFP                 RPF                  Contract
with Firms/  with                                     Prepared             Issued                 Signed
Agencies    Individuals
Restructuring Advisory
Services to Enterprises                                   Commercial
88350.0                    Practices (CP)        January, 1997        May, 1997                  N/A
First Five Restructuring
Services Contracts             1650.0                          CP                   N/A                 N/A              November 1997 -
January, 1998
Project                                                    Selection of
Implementation                                              Individual
Group                                       400.0       Consultants(SIC)         May,1997            July, 1997           September, 1997
Evaluation Committee
Financial Adviser                           84.0              SIC                May, 1997           July, 1997          September, 1997
Restructuring Promotion        710.0                         QCBS                April,1997          June,1997            September,1997
Development of Database        580.0                         QCBS               August,1997       September,1997          November,1997
Ex-Post Evaluation             680.0                      Single Source        December, 1997           N/A                March, 1998
Project Accounts Audit a!      240.0                       Least-Cost         Annually (March)   Annually (March)         Annualy (May)
Total Procurement      92210.0        484.0.
m:\elena\erspdoc3\attach6.doc






Attachment 7
Page 1 of 4
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ACTIVITY                                         IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES                                              OUTPUT    DATE
Government              RPC/LPC                 Enterprises            Consultants        Banks
1. Issuing RFP        to establish an ad hoc  to carry out relevant                           to submit proposals               over 100        07/97
for the Roster         commission, to       procurement activities                                                              proposals
participate in the                                                                                       received
review of proposals
2. Finalizing draft    MOF to review        (a) to draft SLA; (b) to                                             to provide     Model Sub-       07/97
Sub-Loan Agreement                          review with the Bank and                                              input         Loan
MOF                                                                                 Agreement
3. Finalizing          MOE and MOF to    to prepare final draft                                                                 Final draft     07/97
Implementation         review and revise                                                                                        Implementation
Agreement                                                                                                                       Agreement
4. Project operational   MOE and MOF to    (a) to prepare the manual                                                            Operational     07/97
manual                 confirm detailed     for the Bank Teview; (b)                                                            manual being
evaluation criteria    to carry out workshops in                                                         used by staff
LPCs
5. Promotion           MOE and MOF to    to develop and deliver (a)                           to familarize      to familiarize  Initial        09/97
workshops              participate          one workshop for                                  themselves with    themselves    coordination of
consultants; (b) two - for                        the Project        with the       the private
banks                                                                Project        sector parties



Attachment 7
Page 2 of 4
6. Implementing eight   MOE to evaluate the  to monitor              to implement restructuring  to deliver advisory  to provide  restructuring of  04/98
restructuring pilots   outcomes             implementation and                                 services           guarantees    8 enterprises,
(PIAL)                                      provide assitance                                                     for two pilot   debt-servicing
sub-projects   of 8 sub-loans
7. Establishing the    MOE and MOF to    to carry out relevant                                                                   1997 Roster     09/97
1997 Roster           participate in the    procurement actions                                                                 established
review of proposals
8. Developing 1997                          to ensure access to the                           to register in the                Database 1997   09/97
Database of domestic                        Database to all interested                         Database                         is used
consultants                                 parties
9. Contracting                             to carry out relevant                                                                Consultants      09/97
consultants for: (a)                        procurment actions                                                                  selected and
restructuring                                                                                                                   contracted
promotion; and (b)
Project Group
10. Establishment of    to establish the Task  to develop operating                                                             IMT established  09/97
the Inter-Ministerial  Force, approve       procedures
Task Force             procedures and
approint members
11. Establishement of   to establish the EC,   to procure financial                                                             EC established   09/97
the Evaluation         approve procedures   adviser for the EC
Committee              and appoint members
12. Signing Framework                       to solicit Framework                                                 to negotiate    10 Framework   09/97
Agreement with Banks-                       Agreements with about                                                 Framework    Agreements
Guarantors                                  10 banks                                                              Agreements   concluded
and sign them
13. Opening Special    MOF to review       to procure the bank                                                   to suibmit     Special Account 09/97
Account                procurment                                                                                 proposals     open
documents and
approve selection



Attachment 7
Page 3 of 4
14. Restructuring of at  to participate in the    to implement respective    to (a) select consultants;    to deliver  to provide  40 restructuring  12/98
least 40 enterprises   Evaluation            operational              (b) implement             consulting services  guarantees   Sub-Projects
Committee meetings   responsibilities         restrucutring; and (c)                                       implemented
service the Sub-Loans
15. Project promotion                       to assist the contractor(s)  to participate in the  to deliver (a) broad  to participate   8 press-    12/98
activities                                                            promotion activities      marketing          in the         conferences and
campaign; (b) 10    promotion     8 workshops
targeted workshops  activities    delivered
16. Updates of the    to establish ad hoc    to carry out relevant                             to submit proposals                Roster updated   08/98
Roster                 commission           procurement actions
17. Ex-post evaluation                      to assit and supervise    to cooperate with LERC    LERC to carry out                 15-20 Sub-      03/99
of restructuring                             Leontief Center                                    evaluation of 15 -                projects
outcomes                                                                                        20 enterprise                     evaluated
restrucutring Sub-
Projects PY2-PY4
18. Database updates                        to (a) procure service-   to provide references     to register in the                Database        03/99
providers; (b) ensure the   based on experience    Database                          updated and in
Database advertisement                                                               use
and dissemination
19. Project promotion                       to (a) procure contractor   to participate in the  to deliver          to participate  12 workshops    03/99
activities                                  for the second year; (b)   promotion workshops      workshops          in the         delivered
assit the contractor                                                  promotion
through LPCs                                                          workshops
19. Annual Project     MOF review           to (a) procure auditors;    to ensure access to sub-                                  project account  06/99
Audit                  procurment steps     and (b) establish their  loans accounts                                               audited
access to project
documents



Attachment 7
Page 4 of 4
20. Restructuring of at                    to exercise operational    to implement restructuring  to deliver  to provide     at least 60     PYIV
least 180 enterprises                     responsibilities                                  restrucutring      guarantees    enterprises
advisory services               restrucutried
each project
year
21. Mid-term review    MOE and MOF to    to draft mid-term report  to participate in the    to provide feed-    to provide   mid-term        04/99
of Project            participate          and prepare supportive    review, and provide the  back about      feed-back      review
implementation                             documents              relevant documents       implementing       about          completed;
arrangements      implementing  implementing
arrangements  arrangement
fine-tuned
22. Evaluation report    MOE to provide    to organize preparation                          to deliver the                   evaluation      12/99
on implementation of    input              and provide input                                report                          report
restructuring promotion                                                                                                      completed
component
23. Evaluation report    MOE to provide    to organize preparation    to provide input on the  to provide input on           evaluation      PYIV
on implementation of    input              and provide input       actual use of Database  the trend in the                  report
Database                                                                                    business                         completed
opportinites opened
by the Database
24. Budgetary         by 12/01 each year    by 09/30 each year to                                                            Budget for      December
allocations for the   to approve budget    submit draft budget to the                                                        subsequent year  each PY
RPC/LPCs              acceptable to the    Bank                                                                              approved
Bank
25. Implementation    to provide input     to prepare ICR and     to provide input          LERC to           to provide     ICR prepared    05/2003
Completion report                         review it with the Bank                           contribute        input
(ICR)
m:\elena\erspdoc5\attach7.docMay 8, 1997 12: 18 PM



Attachment 8
Page 1 of 1
RUSSIA
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
(US$1,000)
Quarterly Disbursement
Bank Fiscal Year and                                    Cumulative      Disbursement
Quarter Ending               TA        Sub-Projects    Disbursements       Profile'
March 31, 1998                   390             540              930             845
June 30, 1998                    390             660            1,980            2,535
EY.22
September 30, 1998               390             660            3,030            5,915
December 31, 1998                390           1,470            4,890            8,450
March 31, 1999                   537           1,890            7,317           16,266
June 30, 1999                    597           2,820           10,734           18,590
EXO
September 30, 1999               537           3,540           14,811           30,983
December 31, 1999                537           4,020           19,368           33,800
March 31, 2000                   624           4,560           24,552           42,370
June 30, 2000                    684           4,860           30,096           45,630
September 30, 2000               624           5,280           36,000           53,355
December 31, 2000                624           5,940           42,564           57,460
March 31, 2001                   428           5,430           48,422           63,844
June 30, 2001                    488           5,910           54,820           67,600
EXQ
September 30, 2001               428           6,180           61,428           72,247
December 31, 2002                428           5,490           67,346           76,050
March 31, 2002                    70           4,560           71,976           78,240
June 30, 2002                    130           3,930           76,036           81,965
EXQ3
September 30, 2002                70           4,890            80,996          83,232
December 31, 2002                 70           3,934            85,000          85,000
m:\diop\ersp\disbsch.doc
Based on average of Bank wide TA profile and ECA FIL profile as of June 1995.






Attachment 9
Page 1 out of 2
RUSSIA: ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
Project Performance Indicators
Component        Objectives            Inputs                Processes/Activities      Expected Output/limpact T   Performance Indicators
OUTPUT
Restructuring  Facilitate the    I.Loan-based           I.Market-driven generation of  I.Loans to private enter-    1. About 120 proposals
Services      restructuring      consultancies for     restructuring advisory Sub-     prises for well defined   received in each of four
process of eligible  various restruc-    Projects by private enterprises  advisory services        project years
private enterprises  turing assignments  and consulting firms            projects
to increase their    for PEs                                                                       2. about 30 sub-projects
competitiveness                                                                                    committed in the first
and efficiency    2. Funding of project    2. Review,approval,commit-                              project year and about 70
management activities   ment and implementation                                 during each of the three
of RPC                of restructuring Sub-Projects                             remaining years
3. Concultancy to     3.Development of restructuring  2.Ex-post evaluation      3.performance of a sample 60
monitor restructuring    case studies, and analitical  of the impact of the     enterprises is assessed one
sub-projects, assess  reports, identification of      implemented sub-projects   year after the completion of
the impact and        dissemination channels and      on enterprise performance   their sub-projects
disseminate the       distribution of the developed
lessons learned       materials                       3. Regular dissemination  4. at least 4 case-studies pre-
of the best practices     pared and disseminated during
and lessons learned       each project year
Market        Promote the       Consultancy to                                         Updated data base         I.data base is being used
Information    market for busi-    develop and dissemi-    Develop data base of consulting    available electronically  by the market
Improvement  ness advisory       nate a data base of   firms in Russia, update it      and in hard copy to the   2.incresing trend in consulting
services          consulting firms       annually and dessiminate        market, including the     staff-monts assigned to local
in Russia             electronically and in hard copy  enteprises seeking to    consultants (from 25 to 60%)
restructure and the con-  3.1ocal firms graduate from
sulting firms on the Roster  the Data-Base to the Roster
starting second Project year



Attachment 9
Page 2 out of 2
Restructuring  enhance the         Consultancy to           L develop and deliver restruc-    restructuring promotion      workshop program completed
Promotion      understanding of    educate enterprises,    turing promotion workshops         workshops                    over the first two project
the market agents   banks, institutional                                                                    years
of the restructu-   shareholders about       2.market the project to the       all relevant market agents    about 120 proposals
ring, in general,    the benefits and risks  enterprises, banks, non-bank      are informed about the       received in each of
and of the project,   of restructuring and   financial institutions, venture   project and its services     four project years
in particular       engaging extemnal       funds,etc.                         and benefits
consultants
IMPACT
Operating perfonnance of    1.TOR substantially or fully
participating enterprises   achieved in about 80%
is improved                 of committed sub-projects
2.of 60 enterprises evalu-
ated during the PY2-PY4
at least 40 have achieved
one/combination of: (i)
improved accounting and MIS;
(ii) increase in sales and
decrease of barter:
(iii) improved liquidity:
(iv) increased tax payments
(v) new investment obtained
Capacity of the local       I.increasing volume of the
consulting industry to pro-   staff-month share of local
vide restructuring advisory   consultants participating
services is improved        in the project
2.increased volume of
market-based transactions
of the randomly surveyed
firms from the data base
MA6ELENAEE7PDOC3attac9doc
5/6/97



Attachment 10
Page 1 out of 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Staff
FY    Mission        Type of                            Week          Cost
Dates         Mission       Required Personnel  Input          US$ '000
98     07/97         Supervision   Team Leader          1.5
Mission       Financial Officer    1.0
Procurement Specia-
list (Res. Mission)  1.0
98     09/97         Supervision   Team Leader          2.0
Mission       Fin. Operations Officer 1.0
(Project      Procurement Specia-
Launch)       list                 1.0
OperationsOfficer
(Res.Mis)            2.0
98    03/98          Supervision   Team Leader          1.0
Mission       Operations
Officer (Res.Mis)    1.0
Desk Work    Team Leader           14.0
Operations Officer    2.0
Operations Officer
(Resident Mission)    8
Total FY 98 o/w      35.5          106.0
Headquarters Staff    23.5
Resident Mission     12.0
99     07/98         Supervision   Team Leader          2.0
Mission       Operations
Officer (Res.Mis)    2.0
99     11/98         Supervision   Team Leader           1.5
Mission       Officer (Res.Mis)    1.5
99     04/99         Mid-term      Team Leader          2.0
Review        Operations Officer    1.0
Operations Officer
(Resident Mission)    2.0



Attachment 10
Page 2 out of 3
Desk Work    Team Leader             10
Operations Officer     1
Operations Officer
(Res.Mission)          6
Total FY99, o/w       28.5          81.0
Headquarters Staff    17.5
Resident Mission      11.0
00     10/99          Supervision    Team Leader           1.5
Mission       Operations Officer
(Resident Mission)    1.5
00     04/00          Supervision    Team Leader           1.0
Mission       Operations Offi-
cer (Res. Mission)    1.0
00                    Desk Work    Team Leader             8.0
Operations Officer    8.0
(Res.Mission)
Total of FY 00, o/w   21.0          52.5
Headquarters Staff    10.5
Resident Mission      10.5
01     10/00          Supervision    Team Leader           1.5
Mission       Operations
Officer (Res.Mis)     1.5
01     04/01          Supervision    Team Leader           1.0
Mission       Operations
Officer(Res.Mis)      1.0
Desk Work    Team Leader             6
Operations Officer
(Resident Mission)    6
Total FY 01, o/w      17.0          42.5
Headquarters Staff    8.5
Resident Mission      8.5



Attachment 10
Page 3 out of 3
02     10/01          Completion    Team Leader              2.0
Mission        Operations Offi-
cer (Res.Mission)     2.0
Desk Work    Team Leader              2.0
Operations Officer
(Resident Mission)    4.0
Total FY 02, o/w:      10.0           22.0
Headquarters Staff    4.0
Resident Mission      6.0
m:\elena\erspdoc3\atachl O.doc
(super)
518/97






Attachment 11
Page 1 out of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
RESTRUCTURING PROMOTION COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Background
1. The Russian Federation (RF) in cooperation with the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter The World Bank) has prepared an
Enterprise Restructuring Services Project (ERSP) to be supported by the Bank Loan. The
project will support restructuring of some 250-300 medium and large privatized Russian
enterprises which would borrow funds from the Ministry of Finance to hire specialized
consulting services in enterprise restructuring. The Russian Privatization Center (RPC),
the designated Project Implementation Agency will manage the project implementation in
collaboration with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance.
2. The main Project objective is to develop a sustainable capacity in the Russian private
sector for market-based restructuring. In line with this, the project has three specific
objectives: (i) to help about 250 private enterprises improve their operational/financial
performance, in general, and become bankable, in particular; (ii) to strengthen the local
consulting industry in this process and equip it to meet the expected growing enterprise
demand for restructuring advisory services; and (iii) to broaden the institutional base of
the restructuring process by providing incentives to the key market agents, i.e. enterprise
managers, consultants, banks, institutional investors to initiate and drive the restructuring
process. The project will have one core and two supplementary components.
3. The core, Restructuring Services component will provide direct lending from the MOF to
private enterprises to finance the consultancies which will help enterprises to reveal their
viable core of business, improve one or several areas of operations critical for re-starting
growth and help obtain access to market sources for new capital. The two supplementary
components will enhance the impact of the core one, i.e. (i) Market Information
Improvement component will provide systematic information to the market about the
range and quality of domestically available consulting services; and (ii) Restructuring
Promotion component.
II.    Restructuring Promotion Component Objectives and Rationale
1. Obiectives. As the main objective of the ERSP is to develop a sustainable capacity in the
Russian private sector for market-based restructuring, the Restructuring Promotion (RP)
component will strengthen the core, Restructuring Services component by familiarizing
the market agents with restructuring approaches in general, and the project, in particular.
Its main goals are to increase the demand for the project, to better position eligible
enterprises to absorb the consulting services efficiently, as well as, possibly, trigger
independent transactions between enterprises and consultants in the market place. In line



Attachment 11
Page 2 out of 6
with this, the project component is targeted to the following audiences: (i) managers and
owners of private enterprises who might want to improve their operational/financial
performance and make their enterprises bankable through restructuring; (ii) local
consulting companies already operating in the market who are supposed to gain practical
experience within the ERSP to respond growing enterprise demand for restructuring
advisory  services;  and  (iii)  senior  management  of  the  investment/lending
companies/banks, (iv) various international donor organizations active in Russia, to
whom the promotion activities under the component will provide general awareness of the
opportunities offered by the ERSP and specific terms and conditions for participation of
these entities and/or their sponsored enterprises. The component is also targeted to the
federal and regional government agencies and local authorities to enhance their
understanding of and thus create incentives for their initiating and supporting the
restructuring process at the regional/local level.
2. Project Component Rationale rests on the need to enhance key market players (enterprise
managers, consultants, banks, investors, government officials) understanding of the ERSP
and of the restructuring process in general, including:
(i) Along with the lack of financial and technical capacity to execute successful turnaround
of their companies, few enterprise managers and owners are aware of the role of
restructuring as the main tool of achieving financial and operational sustainability of
their enterprises due to informational gaps in the market. Within the framework of the
Restructuring Promotion component they will be exposed to: (I) the general description
of restructuring techniques as well as to best practice examples of successful company
turnarounds; (2) the comparative analysis of the availability and value of consulting
services (foreign and local) in general and within the framework of the RP component;
(3) the process of selection and management of external consultants; (4) the risks and
benefits of using external consultant services in general; (5) awareness of financial
sources/opportunities open for restructuring, including various donor-supported term-
financing and investment programs.
(ii)At present, local consulting market is unable to satisfy the growing needs for
restructuring consulting services due to the lack of capacity and know-how. The RP
component will serve the target of reducing these gaps through enhancing the local
consultants with better understanding of: (I) the advantages of teaming up with the
foreign consultants thus gaining access to know-how transfer through on-job training;
(2) the given opportunities to enforce the local consultants' services position in the
Russian market through improving the quality and broadening the range of services
provided.
(iii)Other important players in the market (banks, investors, government agencies) who are
interested in the revival of Russian enterprises as potential objects for investments, the
process hindered by many economic and political factors, will be enhanced with better
understanding of the role of restructuring in general as well with the knowledge of
transparent support scheme available under the project which prime objective is to
develop new institutional and financial relationship for the on-going market based
restructuring process.



Attachment 11
Page 3 out of 6
The RP component implementation should also result in creating an increased   upside
potential in enterprise demand for restructuring consulting services.
III.   Component Outline: Scope of Contractor's Work/Services
1. The Restructuring Promotion Component is seen as an ongoing pipeline building exercise
and should include the following type of activities:
A. Delivery of broad marketing program promoting the restructuring in general and the
ERSP, in particular, aiming to reach as many potential key market players (enterprises,
consultants, banks, investment funds) as possible during the start-up period of the
project implementation. This public information campaign is also aimed to support the
successful implementation of the ERSP by informing the Russian public, government
officials, financial institutions, as well as international donors community. Thus, the
primary goal is to achieve maximum awareness outreach effect.
Broad Marketing Program should include:
* preparation, periodical update and dissemination of the ERSP information packages with
comprehensive description of the Project and procedures/benefits/risks of participation:
i) general description, financial terms, procurement organization;
ii) RPC/LPCs' coaching role and procedural requirement for participation;
iii)explanation of the guarantee arrangements;
iv) methodological guidelines on the preparation of a good-quality restructuring sub-
project proposals;
v) the rationale for undertaking restructuring efforts from the strategic corporate
perspectives of the enterprise;
vi) the benefits and risks of employment external consultants;
vii)the relevant GOR documents and policies promoting and supporting enterprise
reform;
viii)the list of the banks-guarantors acceptable to the MOF; and their local
representations;
ix) brief description of the existing donor-supported and GOR-supported programs,
projects and facilities, providing debt and equity financing to enterprises with the
indication of the key contacts;
x) other relevant information as mutually agreed by the RPC and the Contractor.
* press-conferences;
* preparation and publication of press releases and articles in the leading business and
economic newspapers and magazines;
* TV talk shows (to be prepared and place in the regional television in cooperation with an
appropriate media company to be identified by the Contractor);
B. Delivery of targeted short (2 days) awareness workshops which will enhance the
audience's understanding of the restructuring process and explain the Project design,
procedures for participation and the pros and contras of engaging external consultants in
enterprise restructuring. Workshops will be delivered in Moscow the groups of
consultants, participating banks' representatives and investment funds' staff. In the regions



Attachment 11
Page 4 out of 6
specifically the workshops will be targeted to the mixed audiences consisting of
enterprises (who are interested to apply or have already applied for participation in the
project), representatives of the banks involved in the project, as well as at local consultants
and training institutions/centers (indirect project beneficiaries) working with enterprises
and local consultants. Participation of regional/local government agencies is desirable.
Among main goals of these activities will be, inter alia, better positioning enterprises to
use consultants under the project in a most efficient fashion; disseminating the pilot
projects lessons learned (especially during the second year of the component
implementation), sharing successful and unsuccessful experience and allowing exchange
of ideas and experiences and active interaction of the main counterparts of the project.
Successful delivery of short awareness workshops will reinforce the broad marketing
campaign by the face-to-face interaction of the Project marketing team with the candidates for
the project participation. The workshops would, inter alia, include:
* along with information packages, development of a set of basic training (reading) materials
on the restructuring issues to be approved by the RPC;
* development of a comprehensive workshop programs customized to the needs and interests
of the specific audiences represented at each workshop with the emphasis, inter alia, on the
following topics:
(i) Restructuring as a necessary (though not sufficient) pre-condition for obtaining access to
productive investment:
* throughout the world restructuring is financed from the cash flow enterprises;
* in order to obtain financing for new investment through banks and/or the capital market
an enterprise should demonstrate at least one-two years of financially sustainable
performance;
* generally, especially in transitional economies, financially distressed enterprises have
internal capacity to release cashflow through various restructuring techniques (cost-
saving, downsizing, improvement of the assets performance, eliminating of wastes,
etc.).
(ii)General overview of turnaround methodology and techniques:
* objectives of the business restructuring;
* accounting and financial management restructuring;
* improvement of assets management;
* marketing management restructuring;
* manufacturing/operations management restructuring;
* engineering and R&D management restructuring;
* people and organizational management restructuring.
(iii)Discussion of the availability of the in-house capacity for successful turnaround and the
lacking capacity to be outsourced;
(iv)Benefits and risks of external professionals engagement:
* the "re-inventing the wheel" argument;



Attachment 11
Page 5 out of 6
* benefiting from the cross-countries experience;
* risk of engaging the weak team and useful tips;
* necessity of managers' commitment to implement;
* what can and what cannot be expected from consultants;
development of the end-of-the workshop evaluation forms for the purpose of on-going
updating and upgrading of the workshops' effectiveness.
2. To increase the outcome of the RP component, prepare for the "exit" strategy and extend
its influence/outreach over the last two years of the ERSP:
(a) the subcontractor should deliver all the awareness/training workshops through a
network of existing training institutions having sound track record in business training
of enterprise managers, consultants, representatives of private financial institutions and
public agencies. It might be one training institution with the widespread network of
business training branches in the regions (for example, the Academy of Management
and the Market, Morozov project, with its Business Training Units in the regions), or a
number of local training institutions. Selection should be undertaken by the contractor
and approved by the RPC/LPCs. The list of the training institutions -- indirect
beneficiaries of the component -- will have to be approved by the RPC and the
Economic Development Institute of the World Bank ( Moscow Office);
(b)the availability of human resource capacity (qualified trainers able to pick up the
delivery of the restructuring training seminars and workshops on a commercial basis
after the component is terminated in two years) within the candidate training institution
should be the most important criteria during the selection process. Contractor should
provide an opportunity to the selected training institution(s) to train 1-3 local trainers in
each workshop/seminar. This would help to increase promotion dissemination effect
after the two-year RP component is expired.
3. In accordance with the component design its implementation will be tendered out to an
independent service provider, i.e. a private company with expertise in marketing, public
relations, business development training. The component will be implemented over the
first two years of the life of the ERSP. The Contractor will work in close coordination
with the RPC and under the methodological guidance of the Economic Development
Institute of the World Bank ( Moscow Office).
IV.   Implementation Schedule
Implementation schedule has been planned in accordance to the component's main
objectives to solicit effective quality demand for the project and enhance the understanding of
market agents about the restructuring process in general, and about selecting, contracting and
managing consultants. In compliance with these objectives it is phased in several periods which
differ in main strategic objectives, type and number of activities delivered and main outcomes
expected to be achieved.



Attachment 11
Page 6 out of 6
Stage I.    Initial Awareness Campaign and Development of the Promotion Program
and Materials (Months: I -- IV of the Contract Implementation)
a) Preparation of information packages;
b) Organization and delivery of about 6-7 press-conferences;
c) Preparation and publication of press releases and articles in the leading business and
economic newspapers and magazines;
d) Development of a set of training (reading) materials on the restructuring issues;
e) Identification of training institutions; and
f) Development of the stage 11 program and budget
Stage II.   Broad Marketing Campaign
Phase 1.    Months: 5 - 12 of the Contract implementationt
a) Updating information packages and reading materials
b) Preparing and delivering about 2 press conferences in Moscow
c) Preparing and delivering about 12 workshops (for about 700 participant total)
d) Delivering talk shows according to the agreed program.
Phase 2.    Months: 13 - 22 of the Contract implementation
a) Updating information packages and the reading materials
b) Preparing and delivering one press conference in Moscow
c) Delivering about 8 awareness workshops ( for about 500 participants total)
d) Delivering TV talk shows according to the approved program.
V. Qualifications of the Contractor/Interaction with other Agencies
The contractor should be an independent company specializing in marketing, public
relations and training. The contractor's previous experience in services marketing or public
education campaign as well as in business development training should be well established.
Organization of TV talk shows program, if required, could be subcontracted.
The Consultant will work in close cooperation with the RPC and under the
methodoligical guidance of the Moscow Office of the Economic Development Institute of the
World Bank. The contractor will deliver the program through the selected enterprise-oriented
training institutions/centers.
Though main responsibilities of Contractor are described in the present TOR, some
additional miscellaneous services might be required, and the Contractor should be flexible and
willing to deliver these services if warranted.
m:Wena\erspdoc3\altachI l.doc
5/12/97



Attachment 12
Page 1 out of 3
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
MARKET INFORMATION IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
(DATABASE)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I.    Background
1.1.   The Government of the Russian Federation in cooperation with the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD, hereinafter The World Bank) has prepared an Enterprise
Restructuring Services Project (ERSP) to be supported by a World Bank Loan to the Government of
Russia (GOR). This project will directly support restructuring of some 250-300 medium and large
privatized Russian enterprises which would borrow funds from the Ministry of Finance to hire
specialized consulting services in enterprise restructuring. The Russian Privatization Center (RPC), the
designated ERSP Project Implementation Unit, and will manage the project implementation in
collaboration with the Ministry of Economy and Ministry of Finance.
1.2    The main Project objective is to develop a sustainable capacity in the Russian private sector for
market-based restructuring. In line with this, the project has three specific objectives: (i) to help about
250 private enterprises improve their operational/financial performance, in general, and become
bankable, in particular; (ii) to strengthen the local consulting industry in this process and equip it to meet
the expected growing enterprise demand for restructuring advisory services; and (iii) to broaden the
institutional base of the restructuring process by providing incentives to the key market agents, i.e.
enterprise managers, consultants, banks, institutional investors to initiate and drive the restructuring
process. The project will have one core and two supplementary components.
1.3    The core, Restructuring,Services component will provide direct lending from the MOF to private
enterprises to finance the consultancies which will help enterprises to reveal their viable core of
business, improve one or several areas of operations critical for re-starting growth and help obtain access
to market sources for new capital. T'he two supplementary components will enhance the impact of the
core one, i.e. (i) Market Information Improvement component will provide systematic information to the
market about the range and quality of domestically available consulting services; and (ii) Restructuring
Promotion component. The present Database assignment is the core of the second, i.e. the Market
Information Improvement, component.
II.    The Objectives of the Database Assignment.
2.1    The main objective of the Database assignment is to provide reliable and updated information to
the market, i.e. the enterprises and their corporate owners/ institutional shareholders, the foreign
consulting firms, the banks of the enterprises and any other interested parties about the range and the
quality of services which are provided by the Russian consulting industry. In line with this general
objective, the specific objectives of the assignments are: (i) improving ( if necessary) the already
developed by RPC Database "CONSULT" and its maintaining over the period of four years of the
project life; (ii) developing and disseminating to all interested parties the electronic versions of the
Database ( both on diskettes and through the web system) as well as the hard, printed versions of the
Database ( in the form of a simple Consulting Directory); and ( iii) ensuring access to the Database of



Attachment 12
Page 2 out of 3
the following public sector users: RPC and their regional offices ( Local Privatization Centers);
Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, The World Bank.
III.   The Scope of Work and the Timetable.
3.1    Over the period of the project implementation (between 3 to 4 years) the Contractor will be
expected to:
(a)    ensure the technical maintenance and operation of the Database, including: (i)
development of the procedures of the operation of the Database, development a back-up
copy of the Database, timely recovery of the Database system when needed, etc;
(b)    programming of the modules of the Database, and their updating, if needed, in
accordance with the RPC requirements to be further agreed with the Contractor;
(c)    programming several main types of the Database extracts, aiming at various different
types of the Database customers, and their updates as needed;
(d)    programming the methodology of the search, available to each type of the Database
users ( e.g., enterprises, public officials, other consulting firms), and approving it with
the RPC;
(e)    periodical updating the questionnaire for the Database, reflecting the evolving status of
the Russian consulting industry. The initial questionnaire is developed and is attached to
the present TOR.
(f)    managing the media activities, i.e. placement of the relevant advertisement of the
Database, identifying new consulting firms to be included in the Database, entering the
new information in a timely fashion, including translating into English of the relevant
data fields;
(g)   identifying the dissemination channels, and approving them with the RPC.
(h)    developing the annual CONSULT Directory to be disseminated electronically ( through
distribution of diskettes, at least 200 diskettes a year, as well as through the web system)
and in hard copies ( as simple print-outs, not less than 1500 copies) through the
identified channels to all interested parties;
(i)    developing and ensuring operation of the system, providing for the distribution of the
Database through the WWW technology (the final technical specification of the
program, and the selection of the actual web system ( e.g., Internet, Sprint, etc) will have
to be approved by the RPC.
3.2    The timetable for the implementation of work will be as follows:
Week 1:            developing the updated questionnaire and modifying accordingly the Database
available at RPC;
Week 1- 2:         developing and programming the Database modules, approved by RPC;



Attachment 12
Page 3 out of 3
Week 1- 6          preparing the first print-outs of the CONSULT directory and disseminating them
according with the RPC-approved distribution list;
Week I - 6         developing the electronic versions of various agreed DATABASE modules(
tailored to the types of users) and making them available on diskettes;
Week 7-8           Preparing the report to the RPC, outlining the progress and the issues, as well as
the workplan for the months 3 - 12 of the implementation of the assignment;
Month 3 - 6        Developing the recommendations on the WWW technology, and on the selection
of the specific web-site, as well as programming the modules to be put on the web-
site for various users. Developing the budget for the site-establishment and
operation;
Months 7 - 44      (a) Periodical (every two-months) updating the Database entries with new
questionnaires, collected from the consulting firms;
(b) periodical ( once a semester) preparation of the Database diskettes;
(c) periodical (annual) preparation/dissemination of the CONSULT Directory; and
(d) periodical (once a semester) reporting to the RPC on the progress in the
implementation of the assignment; and periodical ( once in a quarter) reporting on
the expenditures made and the budget needed for the forthcoming quarter, for RPC
approval
Entire period of   technical maintenance of the Database, developing regular back-ups,
assignment
Month 41-42        developing a final report on the assignment, including the business plan for the
(tentatively)      database maintenance on a full cost-recovery basis.
IV.   The Contractor's Cooperation with the RPC and Other Agencies
4.1    The Contractor will work under the supervision of and in cooperation with the RPC. The RPC
will assist the Contractor in the specifics of the design issues, and will carry out the approvals, required
above. The RPC will help the contractor, inter alia, in identification of the distribution channels, and in
establishing the electronic interface with the Local Privatization Centers. The proprietary rights with
respect to the Database will stay with the RPC, unless otherwise agreed between the RPC and the World
Bank, with the MoF's concurrence. Due to the fact that the scope of work is very uneven during the
entire period of the Contractor's engagement ( upfront loaded), the Contractor will have to obtain
approval of the detailed workplans and budgets on a quarterly basis.
m \eIena\erspdoc3\attach 12 doc
May 12, 1997 3 36 44 PM



I



Attachment 13
Page 1 out of 6
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING SERVICES PROJECT
EX-POST EVALUATION SUB-COMPONENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. Background
1. The Russian Federation (RF) in cooperation with the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD, hereinafter The World Bank) has prepared an Enterprise Restructuring
Services Project (ERSP) to be supported by the World Bank Loan to the Government of Russia
(GOR). This project will support restructuring of some 250-300 medium and large privatized
Russian enterprises which would borrow funds from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to hire
specialized consulting services in enterprise restructuring.  The Russian Privatization Center
(RPC), the designated ERSP Project Implementation Unit, will manage the project implementation
in collaboration with the Ministry of Economy (MOE) and the MOF.
2. The main Project objective is to develop a sustainable capacity in the Russian private sector for
market-based restructuring through (i) helping about 250 private enterprises improve their
operational/financial performance, in general, and become bankable, in particular; (ii)
strengthening the local consulting industry in this process; and (iii) broadening the institutional
base of the restructuring process by providing incentives to the key market agents, i.e. enterprises,
consultants, banks, institutional investors to initiate and drive the restructuring process. The
project will have one core and two supplementary components.
3. The core, Restructuring Services component will provide direct lending from the MOF to private
enterprises to finance the consultancies which will help enterprises to reveal their viable core of
business, improve one or several areas of operations critical for re-starting growth and help obtain
access to market sources for new capital. The three supplementary components will enhance the
impact of the core one, i.e. (i) Market Information Improvement component will provide
systematic information to the market about the range and quality of domestically available
consulting services; (ii) Restructuring Promotion component will familiarize the market agents
with restructuring approaches in general, and the project, in particular. Its main goals are to
increase the demand for the project, to better position eligible enterprises to absorb the consulting
services efficiently, as well as, possibly, trigger independent transactions between enterprises and
consultants in the market place; and (iii) the Ex-post Evaluation component described in the
present Terms of Reference (TOR) and to be carried out by the Leontief Economic Research
Center (LERC), a non-profit municipal organization of St. Petersburg, as designated by the
Ministry of Economy and stipulated in the Project documents.



Attachment 13
Page 2 out of 6
II. Objectives
The main objective of the present assignment is to better equip the Ministry of Economy to (a)
monitor the project implementation and the project performance indicators; and (b) analyze the
comparative advantages of different restructuring approaches tested under the project and to use this
analysis for developing further the Enterprise Reform Strategy.
III. The Scope of Work and the Input from the Implementing Agencies and Project Participants.
3.1   In line with the main objective, the specific main tasks of the assignment include:
1) Systematic general analysis of the outcome of all restructuring projects undertaken under ERSP. This
will be achieved through comparison of a limited number of ratios calculated for all enterprises
benefiting from ERSP and for a sample of about 60-80 comparable enterprises not receiving
assistance from consultants (control group) over the period of second half of 1998 - 2000;
2) Detailed in-depth analysis of the outcome of a limited number of restructuring cases, sampled from
the ERSP sub-projects, over the period 1998-2000, with a particular emphasis on the sub-projects'
sustainable impacts. Such an analysis will lead to the development of case studies that will be used to
disseminate the lessons learned under the ERSP project about the restructuring approaches, what has
worked what has not;
3) Preparation of annual analytical reports, summarizing the Project implementation progress, the policy
implications for the GOR, and the best restructuring practices and approaches;
4) Dissemination of the case-studies and the selected parts of the analytical reports through a network of
carefully selected institutes and training centers, which are working with enterprises and Russian
consulting companies with a view to demonstrating real benefits from restructuring consulting
services.
3.2    Access to information
The Leontief Center ( LERC) will have free access to the information necessary for successful
implementation of this TOR from the following sources:
1. The beneficiary enterprises receiving the consulting services within the framework of the ERSP will
provide:
- access to the enterprises' financial statements -
- balance sheet;
- income statement;
- cash flow statement (if relevant);
- production/sales cost balance;
This information shall be submitted by the enterprises to LERC every semester from
the date of signature of the ERSP sub-loan agreement, until the end of the ERSP
project, covering a period starting at least a year before the beginning of the
restructuring sub-project.
- opportunities to meet the top management of the from the date of signature of the ERSP
sub-loan agreement, until the end of the ERSP project;



Attachment 13
Page 3 out of 6
- free access to the premises of the enterprise from the date of signature of the ERSP sub-
loan agreement, until the end of the ERSP project.
2. The consulting firms rendering consulting services within the framework of the ERSP will provide:
- final reports on enterprise restructuring, which are to be submitted by the consulting
companies on closing down the Restructuring Project, with the agreement of the
beneficiary enterprises;
- opportunities to meet the consultants who have been working at the enterprise from the
date of signature of the ERSP contract for restructuring services, until the end of the ERSP
project.
The above access shall be ensured by special clauses obliging the enterprises and consulting companies
stated in the ERSP sub-loan agreement (signed between the beneficiary enterprises and the RPC, on
behalf of the MOF) and contract for consulting services (signed between the beneficiary enterprise and
the selected consulting firms, and approved by the RPC).
Access to any other information, also necessary for implementation of this TOR, shall be provided by
LERC itself (e.g. broad financial data for the sample of about 60 enterprises not participating in the
ERSP program).
3.2. Methodology
I.     Systematic General Analysis of the Restructuring Outcome
A.    LERC shall develop and submit for agreement to the RPC, before the end of the second
month following the starting date of the contract, the methodology for the systematic
general analysis of the restructuring outcome. This includes:
1.    the proposed sample of 100 enterprises used as reference (i.e. enterprises not
participating in ERSP), as well as the method used to get the required financial
data concerning these enterprises;
2.    the set of evaluation indexes to be used for the reference sample of 100
enterprises, and for all enterprises participating to the ERSP program. The
tentative list of indexes ( to be applied on a case-by-case method to the relevant
enterprises is provided as a methodological guidanceI (bolded indexes have
higher priority for the purpose of this assignment):
a)     sales (rubles and units);
b)     market share (per product line);
c)     gross operating profit / gross margin;
d)     cash-flow (decomposed in Operating, Financial, Investment);
e)     sales profitability;
f)     cost structure (variable, semi variable, fixed costs);
g)    inventory structure;
h)     receivable / payable structure;
i)     new sales outlets;
j)     capacity utilization;
A definition for each of these indicators is attached as attachment I to the present TOR.



Attachment 13
Page 4 out of 6
k)     changes in product lines, profitability per product line;
1)     enterprise investment activity;
m)    labor productivity;
n)     payroll, incentives;
o)     quality improvements;
p)     expertise of management;
q)     organizational structure;
r)     corporate governance;
B.    The contractor shall also develop and agree with the RPC on the standardized general
evaluation report showing the results of the above mentioned analysis. The format of the
report shall be agreed not later than 2 months after signing the Contract. The report itself
shall be maintained and submitted to the RPC on a semi-annual basis.
II.    Detailed in-depth analysis of the outcome of a limited number of sub-projects
A.    LERC shall propose no later than two months after conclusion of the Contract a method
for selection of the ERSP sub-projects to be evaluated in more details (30% of the ERSP
sub-projects (80-100 enterprises over the period 1998-2000));
B.    LERC shall develop and agree with the RPC no later than two months after conclusion of
the Contract a methodology for the in-depth detailed evaluation of the restructuring
outputs, which would be applied to 30% of the ERSP sub-projects. The proposed aspects
to be covered would include:
1.    detailed analysis of the enterprise market status, including
a)     volume of sales (rubles, units),
b)     market share per product line,
c)     competitive advantages and disadvantages of the enterprise,
d)     changes in product lines,
e)     all other radical modifications in the enterprise occurred due to the
activities of the consultants.
2.     detailed  cash  flows analysis (broken  down  as Operational, Financial,
Investment),
3.    financial ratios, including-
a)    liquidity ratio
b)     profitability ratios
c)     various factors determining the capital structure (financial stability)
4.     detailed quantitative and qualitative analyses of the enterprise cost structure,
5.     detailed qualitative and quantitative analyses of the enterprise indebtedness
structure, including:
a)     dynamics in receivable and payable
b)     analysis of debt quality
6.     detailed analysis of marketing and sales sectors, including
a)     change in sales strategy and approach;
b)     new distribution channels;
c)     changes in share of barter;
7.     detailed quantitative and qualitative analysis in terms of production, including
a)    replacement of equipment
b)    improvements in the equipment use
c)     scrap rate



Attachment 13
Page 5 out of 6
d)     use of capacities
e)    investments in the enterprise
f)    labor productivity
g)     payroll
8.     detailed analysis of changes in management including
a)     restructuring of the organizational structure
b)     changes in the management methods and human resources policies
c)     changes in incentives
9.     analysis of the shareholders' equity structure, including
a)     changes in relationship of insiders versus outsiders
b)    relationship between shareholders and the enterprise's management;
These indicators will be monitored on a quarterly basis for a period starting a year before
the start of the restructuring project, until the end of the ERSP program.
C.    LERC shall also develop and agree with the RPC a standardized detailed evaluation
report showing the results of the above mentioned analvsis. The presentation format shall
be agreed not later than 2 months after signing the Contract. The report itself shall be
maintained and submitted to the RPC on a semi-annual basis.
III.   Case Analytical/Training Materials
A.    LERC shall develop and agree with the RPC no later then 4 month after signing of the
Contract on the methodology and the structure of the case studies concerning the
enterprises for which a detailed analysis is performed;
B.    LERC shall develop at least 16 case studies of enterprises, agreed upon between the
LERC and the RPC based on the semi-annual reviews of enterprises.
C.    LERC shall develop and agree upon with the RPC and the MOE on the structure of the
annual analytical reports to be prepared for the MOE in order to help the Ministry to
fine-tune its Enterprise Reform Strategy. Similarly, the LERC shall develop a format of
the open version of such report ( tentatively called "Restructuring Best Practices") to be
disseminated as the training material to all interested training institutions/centers
working with enterprises and local consulting firns.
IV.   Dissemination of Results
LERC will develop and agree with the RPC a detailed plan for propagation of the ERSP
results. Such a plan will include:
-      public presentations of the previously described analysis;
-      selection of training centers and institutes that can use the developed case
studies;
V.    Timetable.
The time-table for various periods of the assignment implementation is presented below. The
main emphasis during the first stage (December 1998 - November 1998) will be on the development of
the methodology, and the structure of the enterprise evaluations, the case studies, the semi-annuals
reports, the annual report to the MOE, and the "Best Practices Report". Once the methodology and the
structure of the analytical/monitoring outputs is defined and agreed upon, LERC will proceed with
practical analysis of individual enterprises according to the following timetable:



Attachment 13
Page 6 out of 6
Stage 1: January - November 1998
-     General Evaluation (about 30 enterprises plus a control group of about 10
enterprises)
-     Detailed Evaluation (about 10 enterprises)
-     Case Studies (4)
-     Identification of the list of training institutions for dissemination of the results.
Stage 2: December 1998 - December 1999
-     General Evaluation (about 60 plus a control group of about 60)
-     Detailed Evaluation (about 25 enterprises)
-     Case Studies (6)
Stage 3: December 1999 - December 2000
-     General Evaluation (about 100 enterprises plus the same control group as in
stage II)
Detailed Evaluation (about 35 enterprises)
-     Case Studies (6)
Stage 4: December 2000 - December 2001
-     General Evaluation ( about 100 plus the same control group)
Detailed Evaluation (all the enterprises under detailed monitoring)
Case Studies (6)
The annual monitoring of the present assignment will be carried out by the MOE and RPC. LERC will
be submitting the described above semi-annual and annual reports as the main instruments of monitoring
the quality and the timetable for the assignment implementation. The financial reporting will be
organized as follows: prior to each budget year, LERC will submit its operating budget to the MOE and
RPC. The budget should be based on the estimated labor input, required travels, and other categories of
operating expenses for the forthcoming budget year. Upon the budget approval, the RPC will transfer to
the LERC account the yearly budget in monthly installments. LERC will be submitting its budgetary
reports ( according to the format agreed upon with the RPC and the World Bank) on a quarterly basis,
and will maintain all the financial records pertaining to the present assignment in a manner, satisfactory
to the Bank and further defined in the draft Agreement with LERC for the implementation of this
assignment.
m:\elena\erspdoc3Aattach 13.doc
May 12, 1997 3:39:07 PM



MAP SECTIN
I~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 28633
TI-, mop -c padne  b7 ~h. mop De-.g                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     U NITED STAES OF AMERICA
Un~,t of Tho World Bank The b-blnore,,
-oos norn,asad ony tc,Ir                                                                                                   RUSSIAN   FEDERATIONChIc,2
nfroonhooo o- lh,s -op do -ot                                                                               ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING  SERVICES PROJECTSe 
ofay Arrto  -coyenoemnorNTOA CPIL*    CENTRAL RPC (HEADQUARTERS)                                                                                                                                                                                  ~                                                
accptan-                                                                                                NAsTcONALcndPrTes
r RIVERS                                                                         *     LPC MAIN OFFICESe
ECONOMIC REGION BOUNDARIES                                                     a      PtC SATELLITE OFFICE
OBLAST, KRAI, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
- UNITED   - 
KINGDOm                                                                                     ------sa  AUTONOMOUS OBLAST, OKRUO, OR REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES'
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- Ieoldiag re-6hliceaAo'yg.y., Alto., Ko-oaha-o-Ch.4.es, end hkouiyo                                                              e
NOB WAY
NrETRRLANDS                                 S W ED E NIt- -.'
GERMANY/                                                                        n7
POLAND                                  te,~~~FINAN   5'-nqf
-A~~~~~~~~~-
S    -                        ,~~~T-    --
ROMANIOA N              Ymcc(                  so
),   J K      J-R7ANooNoEaN 2'
RELAB   -              ",                                      y- b, fnk
UKEANE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S SB.;nI I
-              a- Peter~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5y- ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ' 
-  Rcst-o                    H                   Chelyeesnsk                                                                                                                        "~~~~~~~~~~~~C  .  'As,kh,  f    h-S  BSk-oo,  lti8.Yt           m
A,  N-go,od  B,y-Sk   TLI.                         -c '                                                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Kr-asnndo-                          4110         fl di                2-''KAg-aDgeWK1yi->i                                                                                                  hey         7~S              -     lt.c'                                        -hk
a1~~;i.  t-.q,.d   K.I.q.         Y.-I-I                K-k                           K- TcnsLe                       .,gTgh                 M,yE                                               Km ...~o                         gm .,yo  \,.
IK.-            St.PeeStanrapa CityeKbturg                                       L,ptI                       K.6.d,,o-BIk.                   Pe,zoMo,o'Krb.q                                                              N -n-yestl                                             Kh --
5M-  -          N                           I      e                               T0--                        Km.d,                              --Ni'y-Ngo.                                       F-,                     O-                              .tIrBytJ                         hA
vologd.                       M.-   cay                         V~~~~-1    ... h'NON                  g..S-o  Noa-Pib,rs,lTo- k                                                                                                        Kree okf.gd.
04                 N-th O.et,.                      r6folsta,                                           ud-t                    Ty-~~~~~                                       ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ mp-anhk
'N                                                                                                - ~~~~~~ya-  .SosVog kond                                                                           h-,-M-                    K.kS                     ri'k
S-i..sk                                      St-r.p.1                         Uly .. YSk                                                                                                 To..t,                   S.khsoki
TUKE             L .h g.                   Y,K-o-H,-T-Sca(kt
NUORDA                                                                             n'                                                          -               CI'tINA                  '-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRH   9









IMAGING
Report No.: T       7070   RU
Type:     TAN



