Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4184 RU
Project Agreement
(Enterprise Restructuring Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
RUSSIAN PRIVATIZATION CENTER 
Dated October 6, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4184 RU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 6, 1997 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and RUSSIAN PRIVATIZATION CENTER (the Privatization 
Center), a state-social foundation established pursuant to Decree No. 716 of the 
President of the Russian Federation of November 23, 1992 and the Founders’ Agreement 
dated October 26, 1992.
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Russian 
Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to eighty-five million dollars ($85,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Privatization Center agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS pursuant to the provisions of the Loan Agreement and an Implementation 
Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the Privatization Center (the 
Implementation Agreement), a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under 
the Loan Agreement will be relent to selected enterprises (the Beneficiary 
Enterprises, as defined in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement) through the Enterprise 
Restructuring Services Credit Facility; and
WHEREAS the Privatization Center, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into 
Page  2
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the term “Project Implementation Group” means the 
group referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.   
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Privatization Center declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its respective activities under the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
commercial and business standards and practices and in accordance with the 
Implementation Agreement, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the carrying 
out of such activities.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and the Privatization Center shall otherwise agree, the 
Privatization Center shall carry out its respective activities under the Project in 
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Implementation Programs set forth in 
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement and in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree procurement of the 
consultants’ services required for the purpose of assisting in the carrying out the 
respective activities of the Privatization Center under Parts B, C and D of the 
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 6 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Privatization Center shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports and 
maintenance, respectively) in respect of its obligations under the Project Agreement 
and its respective activities under the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) The Privatization Center undertakes to ensure that any 
enterprise restructuring services which shall be procured by a Beneficiary Enterprise 
in connection with the carrying out of a Sub-project (or be procured by the 
Privatization Center on behalf of a Beneficiary Enterprise in appropriate instances 
pursuant to the provisions of the Implementation Agreement), shall be provided to such 
Beneficiary Enterprise under a standard restructuring services contract or other 
arrangements (the Restructuring Services Contract) to be entered into between the 
Beneficiary Enterprise and the consultants, on appropriate terms and conditions, in 
accordance with guidelines established by the Borrower for such purposes, which shall 
be acceptable to the Bank, including inter alia, provisions that:
(i)
the Beneficiary Enterprise shall maintain for each such 
Sub-project adequate records reflecting the receipt and 
utilization of the services or other facilities provided in 
connection with the Sub-project; and
(ii)
the Beneficiary Enterprise shall make available to the MOE, 
MOF, the Privatization Center, LERC and the Bank such other 
information concerning said Sub-project and said 
Beneficiary Enterprise as the said parties shall from time 
to time 
reasonably request.
Page  3
(b)
Each such Restructuring Services Contract shall be subject to approval by 
the Privatization Center, and the Privatization Center shall ensure the consistency 
between the Restructuring Services Contract and the Sub-loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Privatization Center shall exercise its rights in relation to 
each Beneficiary Enterprise in such manner as to: (a) protect the interests of the 
Bank, the Borrower, and the Privatization Center; (b) comply with its obligations 
under this Agreement and the Implementation Agreement; and (c) achieve the purposes of 
the Project.
Section 2.06. The Privatization Center shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Implementation Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Privatization Center shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Implementation Agreement or 
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Privatization Center shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its respective activities 
under the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) 
The Privatization Center shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the Privatization 
Center of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
the Privatization Center
Section 3.01. The Privatization Center shall carry on its operations and conduct 
its affairs in accordance with its Statutes and in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, commercial and business standards and practices, and under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management, selected in accordance with 
the procedures described in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of performing its obligations set forth under 
this Agreement, and except as the Bank and the Privatization Center shall otherwise 
agree, the Privatization Center shall establish and maintain a separate project 
implementation group (the Project Implementation Group) under the administration of 
the Privatization Center management, having adequate staffing with qualifications and 
resources and terms of reference sufficient for the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Privatization Center shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b) 
The Privatization Center shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements), including separate accounts for the 
Project 
Implementation Group, as well as for each Sub-loan, 
for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for 
such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit 
by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; 
Page  4
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The activities of the Privatization Center under the Project shall 
be carried out in accordance with procedures for financial control acceptable to the 
Bank and under an annual operating budget for the Project Implementation Group 
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with the following procedures:
(a)
by September 30 of each year, the Privatization Center shall submit, for 
review and comment by the Bank, a proposal for the next annual operating budget of the 
Project Implementation Group;
(b)
by December 1 of each year, the Privatization Center shall submit 
evidence to the Bank that an annual operating budget of the Project Implementation 
Group satisfactory to the Bank has been duly approved by all appropriate action of the 
MOF; and
(c)
by December 1 of each year, the Privatization Center shall submit to the 
Bank the annual operating budget of the Privatization Center.
Section 4.03. The Privatization Center shall inform the Bank at least thirty 
(30) days prior to taking any one of the following actions and shall provide to the 
Bank all such information thereon as the Bank shall reasonably request:
(a)
enter into any agreement or arrangement to guarantee or in any way or 
assume any financial or other obligation of another person, including any subsidiary;
(b)
form any subsidiary, or make or permit to exist loans to other persons or 
investments in any person or enterprise, including any subsidiary;
(c)
sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of any of its capital assets 
(whether in a single transaction or in a series of transactions, related or 
otherwise);
(d)
undertake or permit any merger, consolidation or reorganization;
(e)
make any changes to its Statutes; or
(f)
enter into any other transaction other than in the ordinary course of 
business, on ordinary commercial terms and on the basis of arm’s length arrangements.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Privatization Center thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Privatization Center thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  5
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
    Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)  
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Privatization Center:
Gruzinsky Val
Electrichesky Pereulok, 3
Building 3, Entrance 3
P.O. Box 48
Moscow 123557
Russian Federation
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the 
Privatization Center may be taken or executed by its Chief Executive Officer or such 
other person or persons as the Chief Executive Officer shall designate in writing, and 
the Privatization Center shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
RUSSIAN PRIVATIZATION CENTER
By  /s/ Victor Pankraschenko
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
I.
Organization and Management of the Privatization Center
Page  6
A.
Organization and Staffing
1.
The organization and the core management staffing of the Privatization Center, 
as well as the organization and the detailed staffing plan of the Project 
Implementation Group, shall be acceptable to the Bank, and the positions shall be 
maintained by qualified staff.
2.
Salaries of the Privatization Center staff, including management, shall be 
maintained within a range for each position acceptable to the Bank.
B.
Core Management
1.
The Privatization Center shall have a core management including, at a minimum a 
chief executive officer, a chief financial officer and a chief procurement officer. 
The Project Implementation Group accountable for the Project management shall have a 
core management and technical staff, acceptable to the Bank, and allowing the Project 
Implementation Group to perform management, credit analysis, restructuring, 
procurement, legal, accounting and disbursement functions.
2.
The management of the Privatization Center, under the direction of its chief 
executive officer, shall be responsible for ensuring overall coordination, management 
and monitoring of Parts A, B and C of the Project and the relevant obligations of the 
Privatization Center undertaken in accordance with the Implementation Agreement, 
including the carrying out of any procurement and disbursement functions for the 
Project which may be delegated to the Privatization Center by the Borrower.
C.
Selection of Core Management
1.
The core management positions of the Privatization Center shall be maintained by 
persons having qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The selection of candidates for management and core professional positions, as 
necessary, shall be carried out under the direction of the chief executive officer 
under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
D.
Quarterly Reporting
The Privatization Center shall prepare and furnish to the Bank detailed 
quarterly reports on the execution and operation of the Project and on other matters, 
pursuant to Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, of a scope and within a timetable 
acceptable to the Bank.
II.
Enterprise Restructuring Services Credit Facility (Part A of the 
Project)
1.
Without prejudice to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Privatization Center 
shall ensure the selection of (pre-qualification of) consultants by the Beneficiary 
Enterprises under Part A of the Project in conformity with the provisions of Schedule 
6 of the Loan Agreement.
2.
The Privatization Center shall appraise, and assist in improving, the 
restructuring potential of the Beneficiary Enterprises and the quality of the 
enterprise restructuring plans proposed to be implemented in the form of a 
Sub-project, in accordance with evaluation criteria and operational guidelines 
specified for such purpose, as shall have been formulated by the MOE, MOF and the 
Privatization Center acceptable to the Bank.
3.
The Privatization Center shall obtain information regarding the operations and 
financial condition of each Beneficiary Enterprise requesting a Sub-Loan, together 
with other relevant information concerning the creditworthiness of the Beneficiary 
Enterprise, sufficient to provide a creditworthiness report to the Evaluation 
Committee on the basis of which a sound decision may be made with respect to the 
requested Sub-loan.
4.
The Privatization Center shall act as the technical secretariat to the 
Evaluation Committee and shall endeavor to obtain approvals of the Evaluation 
Committee for the Sub-Projects in a prompt and efficient manner, undertaking all best 
Page  7
efforts to ensure the issuance of the decision of the Evaluation Committee within ten 
(10) business days after the submission of the appraised and qualifying Sub-Project to 
the Evaluation Committee, and to ensure conclusion of all the contracts pertaining to 
the approved Sub-project within sixty (60) days after the respective approval.
5.
The Privatization Center shall furnish to the Bank, for technical evaluation and 
approval, the enterprise restructuring plans for the first five Sub-Projects and, 
thereafter, for all the Sub-Projects having Restructuring Services Contracts valued at 
greater than the equivalent of $600,000. Each such Sub-Project (regardless of whether 
the Sub-project is subject to prior Bank review or post-review), shall include a 
timetable for the restructuring of the enterprise and proposed benchmarks for 
structuring the remuneration of, and monitoring the performance of, the consultants 
assigned by the Privatization Center to carry out enterprise restructuring services 
under the Sub-project. \0c
6.
The Restructuring Services Contract between the Beneficiary Enterprises and the 
Consultants shall be subject to approval of the Privatization Center.
III.
Parts B and C of the Project 
The Privatization Center shall furnish to the Bank in accordance with a 
timetable acceptable to the Bank a plan for managing and executing the activities 
under Parts B and C of the Project.
