                      PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                 CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                           Report No.: AB6932
 Project Name                 Montenegro Policy Based Guarantee
 Region                       EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
 Sector                       Banking (100%)
 Project ID                   P130157
 Borrower(s)                  Montenegro
 Implementing Agency          Ministry of Finance
                              Stanka Dragojevica 2
                              81000 Podgorica, Montenegro
                              Phone: +382 20 242 835
 Environment Category         [ ] A [ ] B [ ] C [ ] FI [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 Date PID Prepared            December 27, 2011
 Estimated Date of            February 28, 2012
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board      May 31, 2012
 Approval


1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Economic growth resumed in Montenegro in 2010, continued throughout 2011, and is expected
to reach about 3 percent by end-2011. However the on-going global economic and financial
turmoil and the remaining vulnerabilities in Montenegro’s banking system threaten continuation
of this economic recovery. The adjustment of external imbalances has continued, the current
account deficit is mostly financed by FDIs, and fiscal consolidation efforts have progressed
despite tax arrears. Weakening of the economy and the banks financial condition due to the
2008-2009 crisis spillover reduced depositor confidence and the savings potential of over-
indebted households and enterprises. Although bank deposits have not yet recovered to pre-2008
levels, they resumed their growth throughout 2011. Bank asset quality has deteriorated since
2008, and although bank NPLs have shown some recovery recently, as banks sold some bad
loans, the high NPL stock remains a challenge. As of end-2011, the priorities for Montenegro’s
banking sector are further improvements in capitalization of banks and their liquidity positions,
and resolution of the NPL stock in the economy.

The objectives of the proposed Policy-Based Guarantee (PBG) are consistent with key priorities
of the current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and build on the reform program started under
the Financial Sector Development Policy Loan (FSDPL) approved in September 2011. The
stand-alone PBG falls under the CPS priority area to “support EU accession through
strengthening institutions and competitiveness.? The CPS states that one key outcome of the
CPS is expected to be “a stronger banking system governed by a modern regulatory framework
and central institutions, which is more resilient to future shocks.? The main targeted outcome of
the operation is to support broad-based economic recovery through provision of financial
services by a sound and transparent banking system operating under regulation and supervision
aligned with EU best practice. Specifically, the measures supported under this PBG should
contribute to: (i) enhanced macroprudential oversight and the legal authority of the CBCG and
MOF to rapidly and transparently resolve any future crisis situations, (ii) enhanced stability and
soundness of the banking system; (iii) bringing Prva Banka to sound and safe financial condition
and market-based financing; (iv) rebuilt confidence in the banking sector and steady growth of
bank deposits towards the pre-crisis level; and (v) effective supervision of the banking system
consistent with Basel Core Principles and based on best practice international accounting
standards and regulatory reporting.

2. Proposed objective(s)

The objective of the proposed operation is to support the authorities’ reform program for
strengthening the banking sector and maintaining financial stability, which is a critical pre-
condition for sustained economic recovery and balanced private sector-led growth.

3. Preliminary description

The proposed Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) supports the strengthening of systemic risk
monitoring and crisis preparedness, the banking sector soundness and transparency, and
depositors and market confidence, thus increasing Montenegro’s financial sector resilience to
possible future adverse shocks. More specifically, this operation’s support derives from reforms
in the following areas: (i) strengthening systemic risk monitoring and the crisis management
framework; (ii) addressing banking system vulnerabilities; (iii) completing restructuring of Prva
Banka; (iv) enhancing depositors confidence; and (v) further improving the regulatory
framework for banking system.

4. Safeguard policies that might apply

Specific actions under the proposed PBG are not expected to have any negative effect on the
environment. The specific country policies supported by the PBG are not likely to cause effects
on the country’s environment and natural resources. The legal and regulatory changes
implemented in the context of the PBG do not allow the banking sector to circumvent
environmental regulations governing investments, nor modify the existing environmental
regulatory framework in any way.

5. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                          ($m.)
Borrower                                                                             0
IBRD Guarantee                                                                     80
                                                                      Total        80

6. Contact point
Contact: Martin Melecky
Title: Senior Financial Economist
Tel.: + 1-202-473-1924
Fax: + 1-202-522-1500
Email: mmelecky@worldbank.org
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
