                                          Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR83598



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (Loan No. IBRD G2130)

                                ON A LOAN
      IN THE AMOUNT of 60 MILLION EURO (US$ 79.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                              TO

                                        MONTENEGRO

                                            FOR A

                  FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICY BASED GUARANTEE
                                 May 8, 2014




Finance and Private Sector Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 2, 2012)
                                  Currency Unit EUR
                                    US$1.00 €0.76
                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              (January 1 – December 31)


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CAR     Capital Adequacy Ratio                  GoM         Government of Montenegro
                                                            International Bank for
CBCG    Central Bank of Montenegro              IBRD
                                                            Reconstruction and Development
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy            IFC         International Finance Corporation
                                                            International Financial Reporting
DPF     Deposit Protection Fund                 IFRS
                                                            Standards
DPL     Development Policy Loan                 IMF         International Monetary Fund
        European Bank for Reconstruction and
EBRD                                            KAP         Kombinat Aluminijuma Podgorica
        Development
                                                            Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau /
EU      European Union                          KfW
                                                            German Development Bank
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment               MoF         Ministry of Finance
FSAP    Financial Sector Assessment Program     NPL         Nonperforming Loan
FSC     Financial Stability Council             SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
        Financial Sector Development Policy
FSDPL                                           SAP         Supervisory Action Plan
        Loan
FSL     Financial Stability Law                 TA          Technical Assistance
        Financial Sector Policy Based
FSPBG                                           WB          World Bank
        Guarantee
GDP     Gross Domestic Product




                             Vice President:          Laura Tuck
                           Country Director:          Ellen Goldstein
                             Sector Director:         Gerardo Corrochano
                            Sector Manager:           Lalit Raina
                          Task Team Leader:           Michael Edwards
                                     Montenegro
                  Financial Sector Policy Based Guarantee (P130157)


                                                   TABLE	OF	CONTENTS	
1.  Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................ 7 
   1.1  Context at Appraisal: ........................................................................................................ 7 
   1.2  Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved): .. 8 
   1.3  Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
   reasons/justification: ................................................................................................................... 9 
   1.4  Original Policy Areas Supported by the Operation:......................................................... 9 
   1.5  Revised Policy Areas (if applicable): ............................................................................. 10 
   1.6  Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
   schedule, and funding allocations):........................................................................................... 10 
2.  Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................ 10 
   2.1  Performance: .................................................................................................................. 10 
   2.2  Major Factors Affecting Implementation:...................................................................... 12 
   2.3  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization: .............. 13 
   2.4  Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any): ..................................................... 13 
3.  Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 13 
   3.1  Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation: ................................................. 13 
   3.2  Achievement of Program Development Objectives: ...................................................... 14 
   3.3  Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance and achievement of
   PDOs):....................................................................................................................................... 16 
   3.4  Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts: .................................................... 16 
   3.5  Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops: ............. 17 
4.  Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 17 
5.  Bank and Borrower Performance.......................................................................................... 18 
   5.1  Bank Performance: ......................................................................................................... 18 
   5.2  Borrower Performance: .................................................................................................. 19 
6.  Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 20 
7.  Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners....................... 21 
8.  ANNEXES ............................................................................................................................ 22 
   8.1  Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 22 
   8.2  Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)............................................................... 23 
   8.3  Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any) ...................................... 24 
   8.4  Annex 4. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 25 
   8.5  Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 28 
   8.6  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 29 
   A. Basic Information
Country: Montenegro                             Program Name: Financial Sector Policy Based
                                                Guarantee

Program ID: P130157                             L/C/TF Number(s): IBRD G2130

ICR Date: May 2, 2014                           ICR Type: Core ICR

Lending Instrument: Guarantee                   Borrower: Montenegro

Original Total Commitment: Up to Euro 60        Disbursed Amount: N/A
million

Implementing Agencies: The Ministry of Finance of Montenegro is responsible for overall
implementation of the proposed operation. The Central Bank of Montenegro (CBCG) is closely
involved in the work on most prior actions.

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A


   B. Key Dates
     Process               Date                 Process            Original Date     Revised/Actual
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:     January 5, 2012    Effectiveness:                              July 27, 2012
Appraisal:          May 18, 2012       Restructuring(s):         N/A               N/A
Approval:           June 28, 2012      Mid-term Review:          N/A               N/A
                                       Closing:                  July 27, 2013     July 27, 2013

   C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcome:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                  Ratings                           Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:     Satisfactory               Government:                       Satisfactory
Quality of            Satisfactory               Implementation                    Satisfactory
Supervision:                                     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank          Satisfactory               Overall Borrower                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:




                                                   1
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

       Implementation Performance              Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating

Potential Prob. Program at any time                  No     Quality at Entry (QEA):              None
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any time(Yes/No):                 No     Quality of Supervision (QSA):        None
DO rating before Closing/Inactive status:        None


    D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                            Original           Actual
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)

     1. Banking                                                               50               100
 Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
     1. Regulation and competition policy                                        50             70
     2. Other Financial Sector Development                                       30             30
 Financial Consumer protection and financial literacy                            20              0

    E. Bank Staff
       Positions                            At ICR                               At Approval
        Vice President:   Laura Tuck                               Philippe H. Le Houérou
Country Director:         Ellen Goldstein                          Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:           Lalit Raina                              Lalit Raina
TTL:                      Martin Melecky                           Alex Pankov
ICR Team Leader:          Michael Edwards
ICR Primary Author:       Michael Edwards
ICR Primary Co-Author: Paula Genis




                                                      2
F.    Results Framework Analysis

Development Objective:

The overarching objective of the operation is to strengthen the banking sector, which is a
critical pre-condition for sustainable economic recovery and balanced private sector-led
growth. The operation supports strengthening of the systemic risk monitoring and crisis
preparedness frameworks, the banking sector soundness and transparency, and depositors and
market confidence, thus increasing Montenegro’s financial sector resilience to possible future
adverse shocks. More specifically, this operation’s support derives from reforms in the
following areas: (i) systemic risk monitoring and crisis preparedness; (ii) resolution of problem
banks; (iii) restructuring of Prva Banka; (iv) depositor protection; and (v) the regulatory
framework for banks.

It should be noted that the FSPBG came about as a result of converting the envisaged second
operation under the (initial) Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Loan (PFSDPL,
or P116787) into a single guarantee operation so as to leverage or increase the World Bank's
financing available to the Government of Montenegro. The FSPBG has some different policy
areas and expected targets than the envisaged second operation of the PFSDPL laid out in the
Program Document of the PFSDPL (see Section 1.4 for an explanation of differences).

OPCS has advised the team to prepare separate ICRs for the first FSDPL and FSPBG since they
were converted to separate operations. This ICR assesses the key expected results and outcomes
at the end of the FSPBG, as laid out in its Program Document.

Revised Program Development Objective

None.

(a) PDO Indicator(s) ─ from Annex 1 Policy Matrix in the Program Document


                      Baseline Value          Original Target         Formally Revised          Actual Values
                      (from approval                Values             Target Values              Achieved
                        documents)             (from approval                                 at Completion or
                                                 documents)                                     Target Years
 PDO Indicator 1:   Enhanced macro-prudential oversight and crisis management framework in line with
                    international good practice as appraised by next Financial Stability Assessment Program
                    (FSAP) update.
 Value              No (based on the        Yes (based on FSAP N/A                           Yes. Though the
 (quantitative or   2007 FSAP               expected in 2013-                                FSAP update was
 qualitative)       findings)               2014)                                            not undertaken, the
                                                                                             authorities have
                                                                                             demonstrated their
                                                                                             deep commitment
                                                                                             to advancing
                                                                                             macro-prudential
                                                                                             oversight through
                                                                                             numerous FSC
                                                                                             meetings.

                                                     3
        Date achieved    12/31/2007                12/31/2013              N/A                      06/30/2013
 Comments                The authorities’ commitment to advancing macro-prudential oversight is demonstrated
 (incl. %                through the following examples. The authorities by law established in 2010 the Financial
 achievement)            Stability Council (FSC) which includes the MoF, CBCG Governor and the heads of the
                         Insurance Supervision Agency and Securities and Exchange Commission. The FSC is
                         mandated to meet quarterly to monitor systemic risk necessary to take make macro
                         prudential policy recommendations to be implemented by the appropriate regulator. In a
                         bid to fulfil its mandate and contain financial sector risks, in 2013 the FSC met seven
                         times. With regards the FSAP, it is well overdue and the authorities signaled in early 2014
                         their interest to undergo an FSAP update, though the assessment is not yet scheduled.
                         (Partially achieved).
 PDO Indicator 2:        Improved quality of banks’ loan portfolios (system’s NPL ratio)
 Value
 (quantitative or        19.7%                   < 12 %                  N/A                     18.82%
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved           9/30/2011               7/27/2013            N/A                      6/30/2013
 Comments                Banks’ NPLs rose to 21.0% at end-2010 before declining owing to the off-loading of NPLs
 (incl. %                by two leading banks. After which NPLs began to rise again with the prolonged economic
 achievement)            slump of Montenegro (Partially Achieved).
PDO Indicator 3 :       Well capitalized banks (based on average CAR of the banking system)
Value
(quantitative or        16%                     >15 percent             N/A                     15.50 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/30/2009              7/27/2013               N/A                     6/30/2013
Comments
                        Banks’ overall capitalization remained above 15% from 2008 until 2012, during which time
(incl. %
                        most banks were recapitalized by their parent groups. (100 % achieved).
achievement)
                        Prva Banka has a market based financing structure, and operates in sound and safe financial
PDO Indicator 4 :       condition while meeting all prudential norms (measured in terms of amount of Government
                        deposits)
Value
(quantitative or        EUR18.2 million         EUR 0                   N/A                     EUR 0.684 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2011              6/30/2012               N/A                       7/28/2013
                        The Ministry of Finance substantially removed (eligible) deposits from Prva Bank to about
Comments
                        700,000 euro by end-June 2013. The bank no longer poses a systemic risk, with a
(incl. %
                        substantially market based financing structure in place, it operates in a more safe financial
achievement)
                        condition (90 % achieved).
                        Increased confidence in the banking sector leading to positive annual growth in bank deposits
PDO Indicator 5:
                        over 2012-2013 to gradually reach the pre-crisis level of deposit.
Value
(quantitative or        EUR 1.8 billion         EUR 1.991 million       N/A                     EUR 2.075 billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved           12/31/2009              7/28/2013               N/A                     6/30/2013
Comments
                        Deposits have increased since 2008, reflecting the return of overall confidence in the banking
(incl. %
                        system as deposits exceeded the end-2009 level by end-June 2013. (100% achieved)
achievement)




                                                            4
PDO Indicator 6:       Effective supervision of banking system consistent with Basel Core Principles (no materially
                       non-compliant ratings on BCP assessment in next FSAP update).
                       No (the first FSAP                                                      No. As the FSAP has
                       BCP assessment                                                          not been updated,
                       yielded 2 Materially                                                    there is no available
Value                  Non-Compliant                                                           independent
(quantitative or       ratings, Nos. 1.5 and Yes                       N/A                     assessment of the
Qualitative)           14: legal protection for                                                CBCG's progress on
                       supervisors and                                                         strengthening their
                       internal audit capacity                                                 supervisory regime in
                       at CBCG)                                                                line with the BCPs.
Date achieved          12/31/2009               6/30/2012              N/A                     7/28/2013
Comments               The FSAP update is overdue and the authorities have recently signaled their interest to
(incl. %               undergo an FSAP Update, but to date a formal request letter has not been received. (0 %
achievement)           achieved)
                       All banks produce financial statements in international accounting standards (IFRS) as of
PDO Indicator 7:
                       2014
                                                                                               Yes. The CBCG
                                                                                               regulation requiring
Value
                                                                                               banks report on the
(quantitative or       No                       Yes                    N/A
                                                                                               basis of IFRS was
Qualitative)
                                                                                               adopted effective
                                                                                               January 1, 2013.
Date achieved          12/31/2009               7/27/2013                                      6/30/2013
Comments
                       Banks report on the basis of IFRS, subject to the CBCG’s mandated ‘prudential filter’ for
(incl. %
                       loan loss provisions. (100 % achieved).
achievement)

PDO Indicator 8:
                       Adequate liquidity in the banking sector.
Value
(quantitative or       Yes (25.8%)             Yes                      N/A                     Yes (23.5 %)
Qualitative)
Date achieved          12/31/2009              7/28/2013                N/A                       06/30/2013
Comments               A massive withdrawal of deposits undermined the banking system's liquidity in late 2008,
(incl. %               reaching a low of 21 percent liquid assets to short-term liabilities in 2008. Since then, system
achievement)           wide liquidity has improved to its current level of 23.5 percent1. (100 % achieved).




1
  The CBCG Decision on Minimum Standards for Liquidity Risk Management in Banks of 09/2008 mandates that
the ratio must exceed 1:1 on a ten day average basis. Thus, the regulation is determined on the basis of a ratio, and
the PDO indicator is determined on the basis of a percentage. Thus, the 23.5 percent represents 1.23:1, or 23.5
percent excess liquidity over the minimum standard of 1:1.
                                                          5
G.    Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

        No.         Date ISR Archived           DO                IP           Actual Disbursements
                                                                                    (US$mil.)
                   N/A
H.    Restructuring (if any)

Restructurin   Board           ISR Ratings at            Amount Disbursed    Reason for Restructuring &
g Date(s)      Approved        Restructuring              at Restructuring      Key Changes Made
               PDO                                           in US$mil.
               Change          DO         IP

N/A




                                                     6
   1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

   1.1 	Context	at	Appraisal:		
Montenegro was hit hard by the global financial crisis in late 2008. External demand for
Montenegrin exports (in particular for aluminum and steel) declined by double digits, which
coupled with domestic problems in the financial and corporate sectors, led to an abrupt economic
slowdown. A sharp fall of manufacturing, construction, transport and tourism in 2009 was only
partially compensated by growth in energy production and agriculture, leading to an economic
decline of about 5.7 percent in 2009. The massive drop in production in the heavily indebted and
overstaffed Aluminum Company (KAP) alone, the country’s largest exporter and industrial
producer, accounted for about 1¼ percent decline in GDP.

The economic downturn reduced previous gains made in living standards. Total employment
declined by almost seven percent from the second half of 2009 to end- 2010, despite of the
moderation of wages and shortened working hours. Unemployment increased to 13 percent, two
percentage points up from its low in 2008. A recent poverty analysis confirmed that the poverty
rate increased to 6.8 percent in 2009, after having declined from 11.3 percent in 2006 to below
five percent in 2008. Almost a quarter of employees were affected by deteriorating labor market
conditions during the crisis, including 10 percent that experienced wage arrears and another 10
percent that suffered salary reductions. About 30 percent of crisis-impacted households increased
labor supply, either by having a non-working member seek work or having working members
seek additional work.

Owing to an abrupt decline in capital inflows and a large fall in external and domestic demand,
significant external adjustment took place. The current account deficit was reduced by half
between 2008 and 2010 as imports contracted. However, it remained high at about 23 percent of
GDP in 2010, as exports and tourism hardly recovered. During 2006–2010, net FDI financed on
average 63 percent of the current account deficit, excluding one-off inflows from the
recapitalization and partial privatization of Montenegro’s power utility in 2009. Access to capital
was retained through foreign banks’ increased financial support to their Montenegrin
subsidiaries, which contributed to a rise in external debt to 94 percent of GDP in 2009.

The rapid expansion of the Montenegrin banking system came to a halt in late 2008 due to the
impact of the global financial crisis on the overheated domestic economy. The system’s rapid
growth was driven by the entry of foreign banks, along with increased domestic demand coming
in particular from the real estate sector.

A massive withdrawal of deposits severely undermined the liquidity of the system in late 2008,
although the situation has improved since then. The system’s liquid assets to short term liabilities
ratio declined from 32 percent in 2007 to 21 percent in 2008. Since then, system wide liquidity
has improved to 26 percent in 2009 and to 33 percent in 2010 and in the first three months of
2011. The liquidity situation was helped by large cash inflows into the banking system as a result
of partial privatization of electricity production and distribution, and by substantial capital
injections from the foreign parents of Montenegrin banks.

Prva Banka, the largest domestically owned bank, experienced the most significant deposit
outflows early in the crisis, and thus was the only bank to receive emergency support from the
                                                7
State. Following which, the bank started to experience severe liquidity problems, potentially
undermining confidence in the entire banking system. The bank’s liquidity improved over time
through the deliberate shrinkage of its balance sheet in 2010-2012.

Montenegro's banking sector continued in 2012 to strengthen its capitalization and liquidity
positions and to work to accelerate the resolution of NPLs. Banking system profitability returned
in 2012, albeit modestly, as the sector remained under pressure from the Eurozone crisis and
slowing domestic growth. Thus, restoring financial soundness to banks remains a priority in
order to resume new lending to creditworthy borrowers. In this regard, through the recently
strengthened legal framework, the CBCG is adequately empowered to foster financial stability,
and the authorities began working on contingency plans to be able to cope with any future
external shocks.
   1.2 	Original	Program	Development	Objectives	(PDO)	and	Key	Indicators	(as	approved):	
The overarching objective of the operation is to strengthen the banking sector, which is a critical
pre-condition for sustainable economic recovery and balanced private sector-led growth. The
operation supported strengthening of the systemic risk monitoring and crisis preparedness
frameworks, the banking sector soundness and transparency, and depositors and market
confidence, thus increasing Montenegro’s financial sector resilience to possible future adverse
shocks. More specifically, this operation’s support derives from reforms in the following areas:
(i) systemic risk monitoring and crisis preparedness; (ii) resolution of problem banks; (iii)
restructuring of Prva Banka; (iv) depositor protection; and (v) the regulatory framework for
banks.

The key indicators, as shown in the Policy Matrix of the Program Document (PD), included:

      Enhanced macro-prudential oversight and crisis management framework in line with
       international good practice as appraised by next Financial Stability Assessment Program
       (FSAP) update.
      Improved quality of banks’ loan portfolios below 12% (system’s NPL ratio)
      Well capitalized banks with average CAR of the banking system to remain above 15%
      Prva Banka has a market based financing structure, and operates in sound and safe
       financial condition while meeting all prudential norms (measured in terms of amount of
       Government deposits)
      Increased confidence in the banking sector leading to positive annual growth in bank
       deposits over 2012-2013 to gradually reach the pre-crisis level of deposit.
      Effective supervision of banking system consistent with Basel Core Principles (in terms
       of absence of materially non-compliant ratings on BCP assessment in next FSAP update)
      All banks produce financial statements in international accounting standards (IFRS) as of
       2014
      Adequate liquidity in the banking sector.

It should be noted that the FSPBG came about as a result of converting the envisaged second
operation under the original Programmatic Financial Sector Development Policy Loan (PFSDPL,
or P116787) into a single guarantee operation, owing largely to two separate but related sets of
challenges. Firstly, the Eurozone crisis exacted a tremendous economic and social cost on
Montenegro, as well laid out in the FSPBG Program Document. The prolongation and depth of
                                               8
the crisis in the Montenegrin banking system obliged two small sets of changes to the second
operation, as briefly described in Section 1.4.

Secondly, given the steep economic decline Montenegro experienced, its fiscal condition sharply
worsened in 2011, which required additional financing. The FSPBG operation, designed in lieu
of the second programmatic DPL instead, became a Euro 60 million PBG, which enabled
Montenegro to leverage its borrowing considerably through a World Bank guarantee provided a
private lender.

OPCS has advised the team to prepare separate ICRs for the first FSDPL and FSPBG, since each
was converted into a single operation. This ICR assesses the key expected results and outcomes
at the end of the FSPBG as laid out in its Program Document.

   1.3 Revised	PDO	(as	approved	by	original	approving	authority)	and	Key	Indicators,	and	
       reasons/justification:	

None.

   1.4 Original	Policy	Areas	Supported	by	the	Operation:	

The Government has been pursuing a program of financial sector reforms whilst facing the
spillover of the global financial crisis, the authorities responded with significant measures and
managed to contain the financial turmoil in the banking sector through a serious of measures
adopted under the first WB supported FSDPL approved in September 2011. This follow-on PBG
operation supported the adoption of a set of further measures to strengthen the banking sector,
with a view to address key vulnerabilities of the Montenegrin banking sector and increase its
resilience to possible future shocks.

The five policy areas supported by the FSPBG are as follows:

       Strengthening systemic risk monitoring and the crisis management framework;

       Addressing banking sector vulnerabilities;

       Completing the restructuring of Prva Bank;

       Enhancing the depositor protection scheme;

       Further improving the regulatory framework for banks.

As originally conceived, the second operation of the PFSDPL was designed to include two
different policy areas, which were not carried forward in the FSPBG:

       The first policy area “maintaining market confidence” was not carried forward as bank
        depositors began to return their monies to banks in late-2011, indicating that public
        confidence in the financial system had begun to improve. Moreover, deposit insurance
        protection regulations were issued as prior actions for the FSPBG.

                                                9
      The second policy area supporting “strengthening liquidity framework” was not deemed
       necessary to include as banks’ liquidity improved beginning in late-2011, owing to the
       return of deposits and parent banks’ recapitalization, obviating the need for additional
       liquidity enhancement measures.


   1.5 Revised	Policy	Areas	(if	applicable):	

There were no significant changes in the policy areas as laid out in the Program Document of the
FSPBG.

   1.6 Other	significant	changes	(in	design,	scope	and	scale,	implementation	arrangements	
       and	schedule,	and	funding	allocations):	
None.

   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

   2.1 Performance:	
This operation is a Policy Based Guarantee from the IBRD, which provided a partial credit
guarantee on a 100 million Euro borrowing. The guarantee provided a World Bank 60 million
Euro guarantee of the principal amount of a commercial bank borrowing, with a seven year
bullet maturity on a non-accelerable basis. The balance of the Montengrin borrowing, or 40
million Euro, was provided without a guarantee in a second tranche with a five year maturity.
The loan proceeds were made available to the Borrower upon the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement with Credit Suisse, by ratification by the Parliament of Montenegro. There were no
changes to the terms of the loan from what was described in the Program Document.
The Montenegrin financial system is composed almost entirely of the banking sector, with assets
accounting for 85 percent of GDP. The banking sector is dominated by foreign banks. The sector
consists of eleven banks, five of which are wholly owned subsidiaries of Eurozone banks and
together occupy 72 percent of the market share at end-June, 2013. Montenegro has no state
banks and none of the banks are subsidiaries of a Greek parent bank. However, two of the five
foreign banks (Hypo and NLB) have been intervened by their home governments and their
restructuring and/or sale can reasonably be expected in the near to medium term.

Since the beginning of the global financial crisis in 2008, the share of the domestic banks, as
measured by asset size, has decreased from 17 to 10% at end-June, 2013, as Prva (formerly the
second largest bank in the system) has been aggressively downsized as part of its restructuring
program. Prva is now no longer considered to be a systemically important bank.

Liquidity buffers have been slowly rebuilt since the massive withdrawal of deposits undermined
the banking system's liquidity in late 2008. Between September 2008 and 2011, the banking
sector lost more than 21 percent of its total deposits. Since then, system wide liquidity has
improved to 23.5 percent at end-June 2013.




                                                10
                         POLICY ACTIONS AND THEIR STATUS UNDER THE FSPBG
  Prior actions from the Program Document of the FSPBG                                                Status
  FSC has:
  (i) carried out periodic systemic risk monitoring and taken appropriate macro-prudential
  decisions as evidenced by written minutes of meetings and the assessment methodology used;
                                                                                                     Completed
  (ii) adopted the national contingency plan including a draft lex specialis [the draft Financial
  Stability Law] granting extraordinary powers to CBCG and the Government to provide
  emergency liquidity and capital, if necessary, on declaration by the FSC of a financial crisis.
  The CBCG has:
  (i) updated and approved supervisory action plans (SAPs) for 2012 for banks of special concern,
                                                                                                     Completed
  based on completed on-site examinations, off-site monitoring and stress-test results as of
  December 2011 and made satisfactory progress in such SAPs implementation.
  The Borrower and the CBCG have presented evidence showing that:
  (i) Prva Banka has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of all actions required by
  the 2012 SAP, maintains a CAR above 12 percent pursuant to the order issued by CBCG, and
  complies with all other regulatory requirements; and
                                                                                                     Completed
  (ii) The Borrower has withdrawn central government deposits from Prva Banka in accordance
  with the agreed withdrawal schedule between the MoF and Prva Banka to ensure Prva Banka 's
  future financing on market terms.
  The Borrower has enacted:
  (i) Regulation on Informing Depositors and Potential Depositors about Deposit Protection
  Scheme (Official Gazette 16/12, March 19th 2012), to bring public communication protocols
  vis-a-vis insured depositors in line with EU Directive on Deposit Guarantee Schemes 94/19/EC
  and 2009/19/EC;
                                                                                                     Completed
  (ii) Decision on Detailed Conditions, Manner and Procedure of the Guaranteed Deposit Payout
  (Official Gazette 16/12, March 19th 2012), to improve the efficiency and transparency of
  guaranteed deposit payouts.
  The CBCG has, in order to implement the Standardized Basel II Approach, adopted the
  following regulations:
  (i) Capital Adequacy Decision, Official Gazette 38/11, July 1, 2011 on capital adequacy;

  (ii) Decision on the manner of calculating banks' exposures, Official Gazette 15/12, March 5,
                                                                                                     Completed
  2012on large exposures; and,

  (iii) Decision on Public Disclosure of Information and Data by Banks, Official Gazette 2/12,
  December 29, 2011 on banks transparency and information disclosure under Pillar 3 of Basel II.

  The CBCG has adopted the decision on Minimum Standards for Credit Risk Management in
  Banks, Official Gazette 22/12, April 12, 2012, implementing IFRS 39 for the banking system as
  of January 1, 2013.

  The Government has, by its decision dated March 29, 2012, approved the Law on Financial
  Collateral, and thus improved the legislative framework for financial collateral and facilitated
  enhanced liquidity management at financial institutions.


Importantly, the CBCG continues to make good progress in harmonizing the regulatory
framework for banks with relevant EU Directives and practices through, inter alia, requiring the
full implementation of IFRS as of January 2013. The CBCG employs a full range of supervisory
techniques to identify vulnerabilities in the banking sector and requires bank management and
owners to undertake prompt corrective actions as necessary. Nevertheless, like many of its

                                                       11
regional neighbors, it has provided regulatory forbearance with respect to the calculation of loan
loss provisions.

Banking sector profitability remained negative in 2013 with the sector posting aggregate losses.
Operating results of the banking sector continued to reflect declining income, increased
provisions for loan losses and high overhead expenses. Banks’ net interest spread decreased from
4.39 in 2012 to 4.05 in 2013, reflecting very low credit growth and a declining net interest
income in 2013 on the back of rising NPLs.

Recognizing the financial sector’s tepid performance and rising NPLs, the CBCG has taken an
important initiative to develop a comprehensive, integrated approach to NPL reduction through
TA provided by the World Bank’s Vienna FinSAC office. Loosely based on the 1991 London
Rules, the approach is designed to create an incentive based, voluntary framework to support real
(operational as well as financial) restructuring to return distressed borrowers to financial health.

The CBCG has expanded powers to act as lender of last resort and has the full range of
instruments and authority for dealing with a problem bank. The Deposit Insurance Fund insures
the deposits of both individuals and legal entities. As of end-2013, it had a total coverage ratio of
about 8 percent (including an EBRD back-stop facility), which is amongst the highest in the
region. The CBCG’s has recently received TA from the World Bank to conduct a crisis
simulation exercise. 

Overall, banks’ capital adequacy remains above prudential requirements. At end-June
2013 the banking system reported overall regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets was
15.5 percent, well above the required 10% minimum for all banks.

   2.2 Major	Factors	Affecting	Implementation:	
Adequacy of government's commitment, stakeholder involvement, and/or participatory
processes: The design of the Government’s reform program and this operation benefited from
consultations with relevant stakeholders. The authorities pro-actively communicated with the
public on the objectives of the DPL financial sector reform program. The MoF and the CBCG
representatives made numerous TV appearances and regularly issued press releases (published
on MoF and CBCG websites in both Montenegrin and English) and organized roundtables to
explain the measures taken by the authorities to boost market confidence and restore healthy
financial intermediation.
The borrower, through the CBCG, agreed to adopt a substantial set of key financial sector policy
actions under the FSPBG program, as laid out in the Policy Matrix. This robust set of policy
actions were negotiated and substantially fulfilled against the backdrop of the European
sovereign debt crisis, which impacted Montenegro’s ability to significantly reduce the level of
NPLs and precluded the complete removal of all eligible public deposits from Prva Bank by 27
July 2013.

Soundness of the background analysis supporting the operation(s): The project team had
unprecedented access to the authorities and banking records alike throughout the protracted
project preparation process for the predecessor DPL and the FSPBG alike. As such, the detailed
sectoral analysis featured in Annex 3 of the Program Document demonstrated the depth of
understanding the challenges the financial sector faced, as agreed with the authorities. The Bank
                                                 12
and the IMF jointly reviewed and provided technical assistance to the authorities on the legal
amendments to the draft Law on Banks and the Bank Bankruptcy and Liquidation Law.

The negative impact of the crisis on Montenegro’s economy provided a strong rationale for this
second operation, designed to continue a coherent policy response to systemic risks in banking
sector. It also laid the foundation for more healthy future growth by advancing the regulatory
reform agenda in financial sector. Furthermore, the financial sector reforms supported under this
operation were largely continued and deepened from the prior DPL.

   2.3 Monitoring	and	Evaluation	(M&E)	Design,	Implementation	and	Utilization:	

The PFSDPL team liaised regularly with the MoF as the main policy counterpart for the program
and to a substantial degree with the CBCG, which put forward the legal and regulatory
amendments for adoption on many of the agreed policy actions. At the Government level, the
MoF was responsible for the overall implementation of the operation and for the reporting
process; their efforts were closely aligned with the CBCG, who drafted the key regulations and
in close collaboration with the MoF undertook the needed supervisory and reforms steps.
Periodic updates on MoF deposits in banks were provided, from which it was determined in the
mid-2013 that eligible deposits at Prva bank have almost been reduced to zero, as committed to
by the authorities.

Design: There were five key outcome indicators to monitor, for which eight expected results
were established to reflect the outcomes achieved. The baselines and outcome indicators were
objective and cumulatively formed a clear result chain demonstrating both the regulator’s and
financial sector’s performance.

Implementation: The M&E and implementation arrangements were continuous throughout the
preparation phase and contributed to the implementation of key reforms and the achievement of
development objectives.

Utilization: Given that the program was designed initially as a programmatic operation in the
middle of the global financial sector crisis, over a period of two years, systematic efforts were
made with the authorities to define mostly quantitative indicators to facilitate monitoring.

   2.4 Expected	Next	Phase/Follow‐up	Operation	(if	any):	

None.

   3. Assessment of Outcomes

   3.1 	Relevance	of	Objectives,	Design	and	Implementation:	

Relevance of Objectives

The objectives of the FSPBG operation are highly correlated with the key priorities and expected
outcomes supported under the FY11-FY14 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). The CPS for
Montenegro, endorsed by the Board in January 2011, envisaged a series of two programmatic
financial sector DPLs. These operations constitute over half the CPS lending envelope and fall
                                               13
under the first of the two main priority areas, namely support EU accession through
strengthening institutions and competitiveness. The CPS clearly states that one of the key
outcomes of the CPS is expected to be “a stronger banking system governed by a modern
regulatory framework and central institutions, which is more resilient to future shocks.”

Since the beginning of the crisis in the second half of 2008, the authorities have formulated a
coherent policy response aimed at restoring long-term macroeconomic and financial sector
stability, and encouraging a sustainable economic recovery. In the fiscal area, to respond to the
crisis and contain the widening fiscal deficit, the Government undertook politically difficult cuts
to expenditures, including by privatizing selected state assets and concessions.

In the financial sector, the authorities gave priority to restoring depositor confidence and
stepping up their supervisory and regulatory framework for the banking sector in order to bring it
in line with international practices and EU directives, and thus make the sector better prepared
for possible future shocks. These reforms are consistent with the Economic and Fiscal Program
for the three-year period that the Government was obliged to prepare as part of the on-going EU
accession process. The need for a stronger regulatory and institutional framework for the banking
sector was also highlighted by the EC in its 2010 opinion on Montenegro’s Application for
Membership of the EU.

Relevance of Design and Implementation

The set of financial sector related reforms undertaken through the FSPBG proved highly relevant
to the authorities’ efforts to mitigate vulnerabilities in the financial sector, and are in line with
the Government of Montenegro’s aspirations to join the EU. Given the complexities of the
reform measures adopted to mitigate key financial sector vulnerabilities at a time of tremendous
uncertainty within Europe, the PDO remained relevant to the achievement of the outcomes.

   3.2 	Achievement	of	Program	Development	Objectives:	

Key outcome indicators supported by the FSPBG included: (i) enhanced macro-prudential
oversight and the legal authority of the CBCG and the MoF to rapidly and transparently resolve
any future crisis situations; (ii) enhance stability and soundness of the banking system; (iii) Prva
Banka operates under sound and safe financial condition and a market based financing structure;
(iv) confidence in the banking system is restored and total bank deposits steadily increase to pre-
crisis levels, and (v) supervision of the banking system is conducted consistent with Basel Core
Principles and based on best international accounting standards and regulatory reporting.

In sum, all five of the expected key outcome indicators were substantially achieved against the
backdrop of unprecedented financial uncertainties arising from the Eurozone and sharply
declining economic growth in Montenegro. The PFPGB further strengthened the banking sector,
as demonstrated by the achievement of virtually all of the expected key outcomes of the FSPBG
operation, as summarized below.

    Enhanced macro-prudential oversight and the legal authority of the CBCG and the
   MoF to rapidly and transparently resolve any future crisis situations. Macro-prudential
   oversight and crisis management capacity has been increased through two key means:

                                                 14
   o The periodic meeting of the Financial Stability Council (FSC) to consider banks’
     prudential reports and market trends to identify emerging risks represents escalated
     macro-prudential oversight. According to which, the FSC members would take
     decisions within their respective authorities to stem or mitigate such risks.

   o The authorities’ prepared a lex specialis to submit to Parliament only at such time as
     they declared a financial crisis. As a national contingency plan, the lex specialis
     provides the CBCG and MoF with extraordinary powers to provide liquidity or
     otherwise take resolution related decisions in the event of a financial crisis.

 Enhance stability and soundness of the banking system. The CBCG undertook a
systematic exercise to prepare and execute on supervisory action plans (SAPs) for banks of
special concern in a bid to reduce risks in said banks through supervisory and/or enforcement
means. This exercise was continued for 2013 in selected banks.

   o Banks’ NPLs however have not declined to 12% as foreseen, rather have increased in
     1H13 to 18.8%. This rise in NPL stock is broadly in line with regional comparators
     over the same period, though troubling nonetheless; the mitigation of NPLs is the
     subject of on-going FinSAC technical assistance.

   o Overall bank capitalization on the other hand rose to 15.5% at end-June 2013, well
     above the 10% risk weighted CAR prudential norm.

 Prva Banka operates under sound and safe financial condition and a market based
financing structure. The CBCG conducts an annual on-site examination of this bank, as it
continues to represent a potential threat to banking system stability owing to its large bank
network and participation in the payment system.

   o The Ministry of Finance has substantially removed all (eligible) public deposits from
     Prva Bank by end-June 2013, with only about 0.7 million euro (less than 5% of the
     original 18.2 million euro) remaining on account. Moreover, Prva Bank’s size has
     been reduced as part of its mandated restructuring, rendering the bank no longer
     systemically important.

   o Prva Bank met all the operational business parameters as regulated by law and is
     under the permanent supervision of the CBCG.

 Confidence in the banking system is restored and total bank deposits steadily
increase to pre-crisis levels. The Deposit Protection Fund (DPF) has improved its standards
of communication, insured coverage limits and payout capacities through issuance of new
regulations. The DPF board has taken many such steps to modernize its processes to better
comply with the International Association of Deposit Insurers (IADI) standards or core
principles.

   o Deposits have increased since the 2008 low to near pre-crisis levels of about 2.1
     billion euro at end-June 2013, reflecting the return of overall confidence in the
     banking system.

                                           15
             Banks’ liquidity (defined by regulation2 as the ratio of the sum of liquid assets to the
             sum of due liabilities) remained broadly flat from the baseline of 25.8 percent to 23.5
             percent at end-June 2013, though it subsequently improved to 32.2 percent at end-
             2013.

     Supervision of the banking system is conducted consistent with Basel Core
    Principles and based on best international accounting standards and regulatory
    reporting. Though the authorities have not formally sought an FSAP update to objectively
    assess the depth and breadth of regulatory and supervisory reforms through a BCP asessment,
    it is clear that key prudential measures on capital, publication of financial results, credit risk
    management and liquidity tools were adopted by the CBCG to further improve the regulatory
    framework for banks.

         o The FSAP update has not formally been requested to date.

         o That all banks now produce and publish financial reports in compliance with IFRS
           standards, notwithstanding the permitted use of a “prudential filter” for loan loss
           provisioning3, is a material (and visible) outcome, fully aligned with international
           best practice.

    3.3 Justification	of	Overall	Outcome	Rating	(combining	relevance	and	achievement	of	
        PDOs):		

Rating: Satisfactory

The GoM and the CBCG adopted a rigorous set of financial sector reforms during a time a great
uncertainty in the Eurozone, which proved highly relevant to mitigating risks in the banking
sector. The FSPBG was a high-risk complex operation, developed in the midst of the Eurozone
sovereign debt crises. The project substantially delivered on the PDO, strengthening the banking
sector (through prudential and related means). The relevance of the FSPBG was high for both the
CPS and government strategies and the achievement of the objectives was substantial, as it
strengthened the capacity of the supervisory authority to react in the event of a worse scenario
and improved the resilience of the financial systems. The overall outcome is rated as satisfactory.

    3.4 Overarching	Themes,	Other	Outcomes	and	Impacts:	

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

There were no measured poverty impacts specifically related to this operation. Nevertheless, the
reforms proposed under this operation are expected to have overall positive poverty and social
impact. The deteriorating conditions in the economy, manifested in the banking sector instability
and the bankruptcy of the aluminum industry are very likely to have adverse effects on growth,
employment, and poverty.
2
  The CBCG Decision on Minimum Standards for Liquidity Risk Management in Banks of 09/2008 mandates that
the ratio must exceed 1:1 on a ten day average basis. The liquidity regulation is determined on the basis of a ratio,
and the PDO indicator is determined on the basis of a percentage. Thus, the 23.5 percent represents 1.23:1, or 23.5
percent excess liquidity over the minimum standard of 1:1.
3
  In accordance with the risk weights assigned in the Regulation on Credit Risk Management.
                                                          16
This operation would help mitigate the negative effects of the crisis on poverty as it aims to: (i)
increase the capacity of the financial authorities to anticipate and address risks in the banking
sector, thus avoiding a systemic crisis that could be very costly to depositors; (ii) enhance the
capacity of the financial authorities to deal with troubled banks and thus help preserve taxpayers’
money; and (iii) facilitate the resumption in credit activities as economic growth returns.

    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-
term capacity and institutional development):

The CBCG adopted a proactive posture with the onset of the Eurozone crisis, having recognized
the potential implications. In a bid to tackle one of the most pernicious effects of the crisis, the
CBCG has taken the initiative to develop a comprehensive, integrated approach to NPL
reduction, which is both complex, resource intensive and time consuming. Loosely based on the
1991 London Rules, the FinSAC supported approach is designed to create an incentive based,
voluntary framework to support real (operational as well as financial) restructuring to return
distressed borrowers to financial health. However, it is not envisioned to come into full force
before mid-2014.

As well, the CBCG continues to systematically work on harmonizing its bank regulatory
framework with relevant EU Directives and practices. This broad aim is crystallized through the
far-reaching set of Prior Actions adopted and more recently, the introduction of IFRS accounting
standards as of January 2013.

   (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

In 2012, the recently established Financial Stability Council adopted a new national crisis
management framework. This framework develops crisis contingency plans at the level of the
three financial sector supervisors (CBCG, SEC and FSA), the MoF and the FSC. A lex specialis
(or draft Financial Stability Law) was developed to replace the emergency anti-crisis Law on
Measures for Protection of the Banking System, which expired at end-2009. The FSC
considered the enactment of a permanent law to replace the expired emergency anti-crisis law,
but felt that given the existing state of the banking sector, enacting a permanent law may signal a
lack of confidence in the system.


   3.5 Summary	of	Findings	of	Beneficiary	Survey	and/or	Stakeholder	Workshops:		

Not applicable.

   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

Overall macroeconomic risks are substantial given Montenegro’s high external vulnerability
owing to the prolonged eurozone economic slump and regional environment in which the
country operates. Slower than expected growth in Southeast Europe and the EU in 2012 and
2013 dampened Montenegro’s recovery, which further strained its fiscal position.


                                                17
Slower recovery would affect the corporate sector performance and consequently the financial
sector. Montenegro’s heavy reliance on tourism revenues and exports to Europe makes it
vulnerable to prolonged deterioration in regional stability or slowdown of growth in the EU.

Furthermore, the country’s euroization combined with its large debt service requirements render
the Montenegrin financial sector vulnerable to a slowdown in capital inflows and augur for a
continued prudent fiscal policy. Finally, given the size of the country, even a small shock may
have a sizeable impact on the economy.

Although there is no IMF program in Montenegro, the implementation of the ongoing acquis
communitaire chapter negotiations with the EU will serve as a policy anchor in regards key
economic, legal and financial reforms, similar to that of EU countries. The Government’s
structural reform program that aims to increase competitiveness, will contribute to improved
investor confidence in the medium-term.

   5. Bank and Borrower Performance

   5.1 	Bank	Performance:	
   (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry:
Rating: Satisfactory
The comprehensive design of this operation, building upon the earlier FSDPL, reflects a well
thought through set of prior actions and key expected outcomes. The project design benefited
from frequent (new) guidance issued by the European Union, Basel Committee for Bank
Supervisors, Financial Stability Board, European Banking Authority, etc. resulting from the
global financial crisis.

It is noted that while a number of the indicators chosen were of a high level (deposit growth,
reduction of NPLs, liquidity, capitalization, etc.) each represented a key dimension of public and
investor confidence in the financial sector. As such, these indicators served as a reasonable proxy
for continuing financial stability, essential to the ability of the banking sector to fulfil its
intermediation role. Considering both the large body of knowledge promulgated in the midst of
the crisis and the banking sector’s sharply deteriorating financial performance during the FSPBG
preparation phase, the quality at entry of the Bank is assessed as Satisfactory.

   (b) Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank devised an effective approach to work with counterparts in the development of the
second financial sector reform program. The Bank cooperated effectively with the Ministry of
Finance, which was the coordinator of activities on the Borrower’s side and maintained very
close cooperation with the CBCG.

The Bank assisted through a number of challenging reforms with persistence and delivered high
level support in all policy areas. By all indications, the counterparts in the Government of
Montenegro were very satisfied with the technical support and systematic approach to reforms
provided by the Bank Team.

                                                18
(c) Moreover, the task team monitored the country’s overall economic performance and the
timely adoption and effective implementation of the agreed program conditions. They also
validated the Borrower’s monitoring and evaluation findings on the progress and results of
program implementation. Further, the task team regularly consulted and coordinated with the
IMF in carrying out its supervision work. Therefore, the quality of supervision has been assessed
as Satisfactory.

   (d) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:

   (e) Rating: Satisfactory

The overall performance is rated Satisfactory since the Bank performance in both ensuring
Quality at Entry and in Quality of Supervision were rated Satisfactory.

   5.2 	Borrower	Performance:		

NOTE: When the government and implementing agency are indistinguishable, provide rating and
justification only for Overall Borrower Performance.

        X     Check here if the Government and the Implementation Agency is the same or indistinguishable


   (a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Government developed the institutional and regulatory framework to improve financial
sector stability, strengthen the regulatory and supervisory regimes and public sector funds
management. Cooperation with the Bank Team by the MoF and CBCG was very strong, with
often difficult discussions as to specific reform measures. The authorities completed all prior
actions and five of the eight expected results (see below ‘b’ section) and readily shared
information with the Bank team and continue to implement reforms in a very difficult regional
and domestic environment.

The Government showed strong commitment to the consultation process, i.e., through
consultation with stakeholders on important legislative amendments and regulatory reforms alike.
The EU accession agenda and the unfolding Eurozone crisis together played a critical role in
driving the pace of the reforms. In implementing agreed upon measures, the professionalism and
dedication of the Government Team and CBCG counterparts proved to be determinant factors.

   (b) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The performance of the Government and implementing agency, the CBCG, was satisfactory and
would be have been rated Highly Satisfactory had the PDO Indicators (reducing NPLs below
12%, removing all eligible deposits from Prva Bank and undergoing an FSAP update) been
achieved on a timely basis.

                                                    19
   6. Lessons Learned
It is important to maintain sufficient flexibility, particularly in the case of the envisaged
programmatic policy development loans, so as to adapt and respond to client needs and economic
realities in the country. As the external environment was rather negative during the FSPBG
preparation phase, adding a strong sense of urgency to the need to adopt financial sector related
reforms, the team built sufficient ownership of the many policy and regulatory changes. The
conversion of the second DPL to a PBG, which significantly leveraged the Bank’s lending, was a
direct result of the Montenegrin 2012 financing gap, as the prior actions were not significantly
different.

As well, the regular coordination with other partners combined with providing necessary
technical assistance on a timely basis positively impacted outcomes achieved. Cooperation
among international agencies (i.e. World Bank Group, IMF, KfW, EBRD) and with the EU,
proved essential given that extensive technical assistance was being provided and needed to be
coordinated and aligned with the country’s priorities and strategic goals.

In sum, the FSPBG operation incorporated lessons from Bank’s experience in 2008-2009 crises,
as follows:

      Need for focus. During the Eurozone financial crises, it proved crucial that this operation
       narrowly focused on key areas for good outcomes. The proposed operation incorporates
       this lesson by focusing on a main challenge recognized by the Government, namely,
       addressing vulnerabilities in the banking sector and making the banking sector more
       resilient to cope with possible future shocks.

      Government ownership. The reforms adopted supported the authorities’ priorities and
       represented technically complex, politically sensitive reforms in the banking sector. This
       operation was prepared in direct collaboration with the top leadership of the MoF and the
       CBCG.

      Communication strategy. Public understandings of key financial stability measures
       adopted were substantially improved through a carefully planned and implemented
       communication strategy by the Government and the Bank. The staff of the World Bank
       Country Office in Podgorica played a crucial role in this regard by ensuring consistent
       and timely communication with key stakeholders. The Bank also kept civil society and
       the general public informed of its position on critical issues through interviews to
       national media and press releases.




                                               20
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
   (a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies:

None.

   (b) Cofinanciers:

None.

   (c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

None.




                                              21
    8. ANNEXES

    8.1 Annex	1.		Bank	Lending	and	Implementation	Support/Supervision	Processes	

    (a) Task Team members


          Name                         Title                    Unit             Responsibility/ Specialty
Lending (from Task Team in Program Document)

Lalit Raina               Sector Manager                     ECSF3
Martin Melecky            Sr. Financial Sector Specialist    DECWD         Task Team Leader
Zeljko Bogetic            Lead Economist                     ECSP2
Gianfranco Bertozzi       Senior Financial Officer           FABBK
Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Michael Edwards           Lead Financial Sector              ECSPF3        Task Team Leader
                          Specialist
Lalit Raina               Sector Manager                     ECSF3


    (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                 Stage                         No. of Staff Weeks                    US$ Thousands
                                                                             (including travel and consultant
                                                                                           costs)
Lending
              FY12                                   37.02                               260. 26
             TOTAL:                                  37.02                               260. 26
Supervision/ICR
              FY13                                    2.59                                 8.89
             TOTAL                                    2.59                                 8.89




                                                       22
   8.2 Annex	2.		Beneficiary	Survey	Results	(if	any)	

Not applicable.




                                            23
   8.3 Annex	3.		Stakeholder	Workshop	Report	and	Results	(if	any)		

Not applicable.




                                          24
8.4 Annex	4.		Summary	of	Borrower’s	ICR	and/or	Comments	on	Draft	ICR	




                                     25
                                    cocc
Mr. Michael Edwards
Lead Financial Sector Speclallst
WORLD BANK

                                                           Podgorica. June 4, 2014

                                                           No 11-324512

Subject CBCG Comments on Draft FSOPL1 ICR Report

The Cen1ral Bank of Montenegro Is pleased to nole thal the the overall performance
or the programme has been raled by the World Bank os .satisfactory· We also
appreciate the recognition of positive outcomes end effort• made by CBCG In laking
necessary policy aCllOns and steps tn achieving key progrem outcomes

Within the agreed PBG program reforms. the CBCG, as an implementing agency,
had undertaken all necessary measures lo meet program objeclives and targets ie.
lo strengthen the banking sector In Montenegro and maintain financial stability. As
recognized In the draft FSO repon. the CBCG worked llltensi\'ely on lur1her
Improvement of the regula1ory and superviscxy framewoi1c, macroprudentlal ovetS19ht
end crisis management and confidence In lhe banking sector Namely, during 2012
and 2013 the CBCG adopted several regulations that tackle Credit Risk In banks,
cepitahzabon end regulatory reporting In accordance with bes1 EU and lnlemational
practices In addition, the CBCG implemented Basel II standan:l1zed epproatn
whereby special emphasis has been placed on capital adequacy with an aim of
strengthening bank capltallzailon In stress situations, large bank exposures and data
transparency based on Basel II-Pillar 3. The CBCG successfully lmplemen1ed IFRS
and IAS 39 standards m bank reporting dunng 2013 with an aim to 1nerease banl<s
financial status transparency and improve market disaplme Smee then. all bafll(s
 produce finane1a1 statements baseo in 1ntemallOllal accounung standards

As an imporlant outcome of the PBG program activities and as a result of very good
cooperahon With the WB team Is the techn1cel assistance provided by the WB and
FtnSac. In preparation and 1mptemenlat1on of specific strategy for reducing non-
perform1ng loans tn the finanoal system of Montenegro, the so-caned Podgonca
Approach"     Draft Law on Voluntary Flnane<el Restructuring has been prepared,
approval procedure was finalized before the CBCG Council and was senl to lhe
Ministry of Finance and Parliament or Montenegro represenbng a final stage of
adopllon procedure. Increase<! confidence In banking sector led to posibve anntial
deposit growth almost reaching the pre.crisis peak Adequate llqllid1ty was
main1a1ned and Improved during 2012·2013, liQuldity ratios were in compliance with
CBCG norms.




                                                26
27
   8.5 Annex	5.		Comments	of	Cofinanciers	and	Other	Partners/Stakeholders	

Not applicable.




                                        28
8.6 Annex	6.	List	of	Supporting	Documents	


1. Program Document, May 31, 2012
2. Letter of Development Policy, May 25, 2012




                                          29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 34825R2
                                                                                         19°E



                                                                                                                                                                                            M O N TE N E GRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                      CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS




                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                                          in
                                                       Dr
                                                                                                                                     To                                                               RAILROADS
           BOSNIA AND                                                                                                               Priboj
                                                                                               Cehotin                                                                                                OPSTINA (MUNICIPALITY) BOUNDARIES
          HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                              To




                                                                                                        a
                                                                      To                                                                                          Priboj
                                                                     Foca                          Gradac                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                       Pljevlja



                                                                                                     Ljubisnja                                                                                                 20°E
                                                                                                     (2238 m)
                                                                            Du
                                                           Bioc                   rm                v
                                                           (2396 m)                      ito
                                                                                               r
                                                                                                    Žabjlak
                                                                                                    Zabljak
                                                                                                                                    ´
                                                                                                                             Durdevica                                                                                SERBIA
                                                                                                                             Tara
                                                                                                                                                     San
                                                        Rudinice     Plužine                                                                                  dzak
                            To                        Goransko
                                                                      Kom




                                                                                                                                                                    v
                           Foca                                                                                                                                Tomasevo
                                                                         ari




                                                                                                                                           Ta                                           Bijelo Polje
                                                           Bajovo            a                                         Sin                    ra
                                                                             nc




                                                             Polje                                                           jaj
43°N                                                                                                                               evi
                                                                                               ˘
                                                                                               Savnik                                          na
                                                                                                                                                                         Mojkovac                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Vucitrn

   To
  Mostar                                                                            Zeta                                                                                                                                   v
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rozaje
                                                                                                   Gvozd                                                             v
                                                                                                                                                                                      Ivangrad
                                                                                                                   Kapa                                         Kolasin
                                           Velimlje                                                              Moracka                                                                              Berane
                                                                                     v
                                    ´
                             Petrovici                                                 ‘
                                                                                  Niksic                         (2227 m)                                                    v
                                                                                                                                                                   Matesevo
                                  Vilusi
                                                                                                                                                         v
                                                                                                                                                                                             Andrijevica
                                                                                                            Morakovo                      Medurijecje
         To                                                                                                                                                                       Komovi                                            To
      Dubrovnik                                                                                                                                                                  (2656 m)                                         Dakovica
                                              Grahovo
                                                                                                                                                             Lijeva Rijeka                   Murino
                                                                                                                                    ca
                                                                                    Ze




                                                                                                                                  M o ra
                                                                                       ta




                                                                                                                                                 Pelev                                                     Plav
   To
Dubrovnik
                                   Crkvice                                                         Danilovgrad
                                                                                                                   v                                                                        Gusinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOSOVO
                                     Risan                                                                    Spuz                         v
                                                       Perast                                                                      Bioce
                                Herceg-
                                Novi
                                            Tivat           Kotor                                                         PODGORICA
CROATIA                           Radovi´ci
                                                                                                                                     ije        vn a
                                                                 Cetinje                                                       Tuzi C


                                                                                                                    Plavnica
                                                                                                                                                                             ALBANIA
                                                                           Sveti
                                                         Budva
                                                                           Stefan                  Virpazar


                                                                  Petrovac                                              Lake
                           A dr ia tic                                                                                 Scutari
                                                                                                     Stari Bar
                              Sea                                                        Bar                                                                    Shkodër


42°N
                                                                                                                                                     a
                                                                                                                                                un                           To
                                                                                                                                           -B                               Kukes
                                                                                                                                   a




      0      5        10   15       20 Kilometers                                                                                                                                           MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                  Bojan




                                                                                                        Ulcinj

      0           5          10            15         20 Miles                                                    Sveti Nikola


                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                             Tirane
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
GSDPM
Map Design Unit
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                  19°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEBRUARY 2014
