Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE CTPY
Report No. P-3168-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
December 4, 1981
I_This document has a r.strieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (Plural Lei)
1.  Conversion Rate for Ttaded Goods effective January 1, 1981
Lei 15.00 5 US$1.00
Leu 1.00 5 US$0.07
2. Tourist Rate effective February 15, 1981
Lei 11.00 - US$1.00
Leu 1.00 aU$b0.09
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAFI              -        Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (Banca
?entru Agricultura si Industrie Alimentara)
CAP               -        Agricultural Production Cooperative
(Cooperative Farm)
EkR               -        Economic Rate of Return
ICA               -        Inter-Cooperative Association
lAb               -        State Farm Enterprise (State Farm)
IELIF             -        Enterprise for Exploitation of Land
Reclamation Works
HAFI              -        hinistry of Agriculture and Food Industry
bMA               -        Station for Agricultural Machinery (State
Mechanization Unit)
UAC               -        Unified Agro-Industrial Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI).
Guarantor:              Socialist Republic of Romania.
Beneficiaries:          State enterprises, cooperatives, Agricultural
Mechanization Stations and individual producers.
Loan Amount:            US$95 million.
Terms:                  Repayable in 15 years, including a 3-year grace period,
through semi-annual installments.  Interest atl.6
percent per annum.
Relending Terms:        Relending to State farm enterprises (IASs),
Agricultural Mechanization Stations (SMAs), Popular
Councils and Directorate for Exploitation of Land
:clamq-ior '_ rks (DELIF) at 2 percent per annum during
construction and 4 percent after construction for terms
of up to 10 years including up to 3 years grace, to
cooperatives (CAPs) at 3 percent for terms of up to 16
years including up to 3 years grace, and to individual
producers at 3 percent for terms of 5 years. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project would address the problem of low
productivity and production in the agriculture sector
in Moldova region, one of the less developed regions in
Romania. The project would cover about 17 percent of
the Government's overall investment of about $1,671
million for agricultural development of the project
area over the period 1981-85, and implement the
following priority components among the Government's
overall investments in the area through a program of
subloans to be made by BAFI; (a) farm mechanization,
(b) agroindustries, (c) soil erosion control works, (d)
credit to individual producers, (e) pasture
improvement, (f) dairy farms and (g) vineyards.
Substantial production efficiency improvement is
expected through modernization of agriculture,
provision of more systematic assistance to individual
producers and preservation and improvement of
agricultural land in the project area. The value of
annual incremental production at full development is
estimated at $136 million in 1981 prices. At least
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- II -
1000 new jobs would be created under the project. The
project would face normal risks of climatic
uncertainties and inadequate agricultural inputs, but
these risks are considered no greater than can be
normally expected with similar operations in Romania.
Cost Estimates                                     Local      Foreign    Total
---      US$ Million ---…--
Farm Mechanization                                  73.3        53.0       126.3
Agroindustries                                      33.2        15.3        48.5
boil Erosion Control                                33.4         7.8       41.2
Credit to Individuals                               18.0         2.0       20.0
Pasture Improvement                                 11.1         3.7        14.8
Dairy Farms                                          6.3         2.5         8.8
Vineyards                                            4.9         1.5         6.4
base Cost                                          180.2       85.8       266.0
Physical Contingencies                               5.0         1.5         6.5
Price Contingencies                                  7.4        10.3        17.7
Total Project Cost                              192.6        97.6       290.2
Financing Plan                                      Local     Foreign    Total
bank for Agriculture and Food                      181.4         2.6       184.0
Industry (bAFI) and Cofinanciers
bub-borrowers                                       11.2        -           11.2
IbRD                                                   -95.0               95.0
Total                                           192.6        97.6       290.2
Estlimatea Disbursement                  -------------US$ Million------------
1983     1984    1985    1986   1987
Annual                              12.0    28.0    32.0       13.0   10.0
Cumulative                         12.0    40.0    72.0        85.0   95.0
Economic Rate of Return: About 31 percent
Appraisal Report: No.3650-RO dated December 4, 1981
EMENA Projects Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE BANK FOh AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY OF ROMANIA
FOR A MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the bank for Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania (BAFI) with the
guarantee ot the Socialist Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$95
million to help finance a Moldova Agricultural Credit Project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, inclucing 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6
percent per annum. Cofinancing of up to US$100 million is being sought, all
from toreign commercial lending institutions.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.       The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Inauscrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) was circulatea to the Executive Directors on August
20, 1980 (keport No. 2757-RO). An economic mission visited Romania in
May/June, 1981; its findings are included in this part of the report. Country
social and economic aata are given in Annex 1.
A. Long-term Trenas and Development Strategy
3.       Over the past three aecades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy aesigned to industrialize a primarily agrarian economy. The main
features of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; ana (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy has
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by party and government authorities.
4.       komania's economic development since 1950 has been impressive,
characterizea by a rapid economic growth and considerable structural change.
According to otficial statistics, national income has grown in real terms at
an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita GNP in 1980 is
estimatea to have been $2,340. Investment has grown at even higher rates than
national income, as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP has
risen to about 34 percent in 1980. Industry, which grew at 11 percent per
annum over 1970-1980, has been the driving force of economic growth, receiving
arouna 50 percent of investment, most of which has been allocated to the
capital goods industry. As a result, industry has become the leading sector,
accounting in 1980 tor about 62 percent of national income and for 36 percent
ot the labor force, compared with agriculture's 12 percent share of national
income ana 29 percent of the labor force. With the transfer of labor from
agriculture Lo industry, the population has become increasingly urbanized.



6tandaros of living have increased substantially, partly because of the growth
of personal incomes and partly because of provision through the state budget
ot expanded and improved education, medical services, housing and social
expenditures of other kinds. Furthermore, Romania's integration into the
world economy has increased, as the level of trade has grown and its
composition altered.
b. Recent Economic Developments
5.       During the last plan period (1976-80), the expansion of the Romanian
economy has slowea down perceptibly. The average annual rate of national
income growth of 7.2 percent was below that of the previous plan period (11.3
percent), and growth has been decelerating, falling from 11.2 percent in 1976
to 2.8 percent in 1980. These changes reflect the emergence of a number of
internal and external constraints, notably the pace at which improvements in
proauctLivity and efficiency can be attained; the ability of the economy to
bring new capacity into operation as planned; a growing shortage of foreign
exchange; ana shorttalls in exports. It should perhaps be noted that the very
poor agricultural outturn in 1980 cost the economy about 3 percentage points
in national income growth.
6.       Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.  However,
the growth of gross industrial production also slowed down from an average of
12 percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 6.5 percent in 1980. As in the
past, the growth of capital goods exceeded that of consumer goods and the
tastest growing subsector was machine-building. Gross agricultural production
grew at a respectable average rate of 6.1 percent during the plan period 1976
to 19801/, displaying however, large annual variations due to changing
weather conditions. In particular, in 1980 gross agricultural production fell
by about 5 percent.
7.       As elsewhere, energy has become a critical sector for the Romanian
economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an emergency
aecree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing cuts and
stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps were
followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve domestic
oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and hydropower
resources. Total domestic primary energy production was virtually unchanged
between 1975 and 1980; increases in production of natural gas, coal and
hydroelectric power compensated for a 20% reduction in petroleum production.
Primary energy imports (oil, coal and natural gas) increased 2.5 times. This,
together with the increased international price of oil, has been the main
reason for the deterioration in the foreign trade balance (see paragraph 10
below).
8.       During 1976-80 investment fell about 7 percent short of planned
levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the planned annual
growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be met, partly because
1/ Annual average growth rate for the whole plan period compared with
annual average for the previous (1971-1975) plan period.



- 3 -
of the aiversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of earthquake damage.
Inaustrial investment, in fact, grew by 11 percent a year--in itself a very
respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment does not reflect
iifticulties in mobilizing sufficient financial resources, but a number of
supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints of design
institutes, shortfalls in the production of construction materials, capacity
constraints in the construction sector, production delays for domestically
proaucea equipment, ana more restrictive foreign exchange allocations for
importea capital goods.
9.       Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied the
growth and structural change of production. The total labor force increased
by only 0.4 percent per year during 1976-80, but large intersectoral shifts in
the labor force continued. During the five year period, the agricultural
labor torce fell from 38 percent to 29 percent of the total. The outflow from
agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the needs of non-agriculture
sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to compensate for the loss
through mechanization, has led to seasonal labor shortages; recourse has been
necessary to students and other groups to meet short term labor needs. The
Government recognizes that the transfer of labor has to slow down to avoid
adverse effects on agriculture output, and is thus giving even greater
emphasis to increases in labor productivity.
C. External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
10.      In foreign trade, developments in the 1976-1980 plan period have been
substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those planned.
The five-year plan envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum for imports
ana 18 percent for exports in real terms aiming at a trade surplus which would
allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt. During the 1976-1980
plan period, in fact, imports increased at an annual average rate of 8.8
percent and exports of 5.3 percent in constant prices. This resulted in a
sharply growing trade deficit which in 1980 reached $1.6 billion, virtually
all of it in the convertible currency area. On the import side, the
aeteriorating trade balance reflects rapidly rising international prices,
especially for petroleum. Export growth has been unable to keep pace with
import requirements, partly because of less favorable price movements in
Romania's principal export markets. The insufficient growth of exports is
also explainea by the vulnerability of Romanian exports to import demand
fluctuations and import policies of the receiving countries, and to
ditficulties in meeting design and quality standards and establishing
marketing policies essential to extend the foothold in highly competitive
product markets.
11.      The large trade gap together with rising interest payments led to a
current account deficit in convertible currencies of $2.4 billion by 1980. The
deticit has been financed through increased capital inflows, with total medium
ana long-term debts rising from $2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$7.4 billion
at the end of 1980. Most of the inflows have been suppliers' credits and
eurocurrency borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost $1.7 billion on the
eurocurrency market since 1975. The scale of term borrowing available to



-4-
Romania has not been sufficient, however, to finance the current account
aeficit fully and the Government had to resort to substantial short-term
borrowing between 1977 and 1980. The net inflow of short-term capital in
convertible currencies was particularly large in 1979, $813 million, and by
the end ot 1980, outstanding short-term debt had increased to $2.1 billion.
D. Development Prospects
12.      The Five-Year Plan for 1981-85 was approved by the National Assembly
on July 2, 1981. The new plan gives priority to the completion of ongoing
projects. This is reflected in the new investment law, published in December
1980, which includes measures designed to speed up project implementation.
ProductLion gains will come mainly from these projects as they come on stream,
and from a generally higher utilization of existing capacities. Investment is
thus planned to grow at lower rates than production. Overall growth targets
are, however, lower than the levels actually achieved in the preceding plan
perioa.
13.      bpecial emphasis is placed on narrowing the energy gap through rapid
development of domestic resources and through further savings in energy
consumption. The plan envisages: (i) stabilizing oil production at the level
of 12.5 million tons per year and natural gas at approximately the 1980 level;
(ii) more than doubling coal production between 1980 and 1985; (iii)
installing additional hydroelectric capacity for 2,500 mw. The implementation
of the above program would result in an increase in domestic primary energy
production of the order of 20 percent above the 1980 level. It would require
successful implementation of the enhanced recovery program in oil production,
some success in oil exploration and a massive mobilization of technical and
manpower resources for coal production. Energy savings are to be achieved
mainly by giving more emphasis to less energy intensive investments together
with retrofitting and other measures to save energy in existing plants. In
addition high energy consuming industries such as oil refining and cement may
have to curtail their output.
14.      In the manufacturing sector priorities will shift from basic products
such as steel or bulk chemicals for which adequate capacities already exist or
will come on stream in the next few years, to more sophisticated goods
including electronic equipment, special-purpose machine tools, specialty
steels and other high technology products. Light industry including food
processing, will continue to expand. A growing share of industrial production
is planned to be exported. Local industries are expected to manufacture most
ot the capital goods required for the investment programs.
15.      While industrialization remains the primary objective of the plan,
agriculture will receive greater emphasis than in the past. The share of
total investment for the agricultural sector will, however, be somewhat lower
than in the previous plan period. Agricultural investment will shift toward
increased mechanization, drainage and higher fertilizer application as the
principal means of increasing crop yields. With an improved feed base,
livestock production is also planned to increase. Gross agricultural
production is expected to grow at an annual average rate of 4.5-5.0 over the



plan perioa, lower than the actual growth (6.1 percent) during the previous
plan perioa. The additional output from agriculture would be partly exported
but would also allow higher consumption levels at home.
16.      The strategy of the plan, which responds well to Romania's economic
challenges, is also reflected in the sectoral composition of the investment
program which gives greater emphasis to energy production and less to heavy
industry than realized in the last plan period. Total real capital
expenditure will not be much higher during 1981-85 than in the previous plan
period. Investments in metallurgy are expected to grow little, and the
machine building sector will actually invest less than during 1976-80 since
substantial additions to capacity were initiated during the previous plan.
hoderate increases in investment are contemplated for agriculture, transport
and housing.
17.      Another major element of the Government's strategy to eliminate
present imbalances in the economy is an exchange rate and price reform, which
is designea to bring the structure of domestic prices into greater conformity
with prices on world markets. A step in this direction was taken at the
beginning of 1981 when the exchange equalization fund was abolished and a
limited number of discrete exchange rates were established for foreign trade.
This simplification of the exchange rate system will allow world prices to be
reflected more directly to users of imports and producers of exports. The
immediate results of these reforms were a doubling of producer prices for
energy and an overall increase in producer prices of about 11.5 percent,
taking into account both the increases in energy prices and their effect on
the prices of downstream products. Further action to reduce the number of
aiscrete exchange rates and their spread is to be undertaken at the beginning
of 1982, 1983 and 1984 with consequent further changes in producer prices. By
bringing domestic prices more into line with world market prices, many
previously unprofitable activities - especially in energy and raw material
production - will again become profitable, thereby reducing the need for
budget subsidies and encouraging the expansion of production and economizing
on use of inputs. The changes in producer prices will be followed by
corresponaing changes in retail prices during the next few years. The closer
alignment of domestic prices with relative resource costs as expressed in
worla market prices, should improve the general efficiency of resource
allocation, especially since profitability affects investment proposals made
by enterprises auring plan formulation and, conveys information to the central
planners about the relative efficiency of different enterprises, investments,
and mixes of inputs and outputs.
E. Creditworthiness
18.      With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 10 and 11
above, debt service payments in convertible currencies (including interest on
short-term credits) rose to t1.73 billion in 1980 or the equivalent of 23.5
percent of gross convertible exchange earnings, increasing from 17.4 percent
in 1978 and 20.5 percent in 1979. The deterioration of the current account
balance up until the end of 1980, and the much more negative evaluation of
Eastern European countries in general as borrowers on the international
capital markets, have recently led individual bankers and suppliers, including



- 6 -
Romania's traditional banking and trading counterparts in the industrialized
countries, to try to reduce their exposure by reducing short-term credit lines
to Romania. The unexpected withdrawal of short term credits and the lack of
alternative financing has created arrears to suppliers and on bankers
short-term credit lines. Despite these short-term liquidity problems,
Romania's basic external position in the longer term looks much more
comfortable. The exchange and price reforms described in para. 17 above will
help to contain future deficits and to keep the debt service burden
manageable. The reform is supported by a three year stand-by agreement with
the IMF. Under this the Fund is prepared to lend up to SDR 1,102.5 million
(Ubil,356 million); part of these funds would be used to consolidate
short-Lerm aebts and part to build up the foreign exchange reserves. The
program calls for a reduction of the current account deficit to $1.8 billion
in 1981 with further reductions in 1982 and 1983. Recent estimates indicate
chat Lhe actual deficit in 1981 may be only slightly above $1 billion with a
continued significant improvement expected in 1982. As part of the program,
the rate of growth of domestic expenditure, especially on investment, will be
sharply reducea compared with the past. The measures associated with the
price ana exchange reform and possible future steps are aimed at enhancing
exports and economizing on the use of imported inputs and on keeping the
country's debt burden within manageable limits, thus preserving its
creditworthiness for medium-term and long-term borrowing.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
19.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$2,082.6 million for 32 loans in agriculture, industry, power and transport.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation has im.proved considerably since 1976. Annex II contains a summarv
statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as ot September 30, 1981.
20.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects wbich will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
toreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the becona Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. Also, syndicated cofinancing loans of $200 million in total
were concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project
for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April 1979 and the Third
Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was made in January
1980. More recently, another $200 million syndicated cofinancing loan from
commercial banks was concluded in January 1981 for the Danube-Black Sea Canal
project for which a Bank loan of $100 million was approved in April 1980.
Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations with commercial banks, the
komanian authorities now appear convinced of the positive value of cofinancing
in the form of financial credits, and have indicated their intention to seek
similar arrangements for future Bank assisted projects. Bank lending also



-7-
aims at supporting the steps being taken by the Government to introduce new
industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products and production
efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for necessary electric
power development. Marketing, especially for export goods, is also
emphasized. bpecial attention is given to agriculture where production is
still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where productivity levels are
still comparatively low.
21.      A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for industry, power, regional agricultural development, drainage and land
reclamation, enhanced oil recovery, and port construction.
22.      In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in various sectors, including industry and transportation,
for 169 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually since
1975 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. Additional
courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses are
becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects to
begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.
23.      The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank constituted about 8.5 percent of Romania's total
convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share in Romania's debt service
payments in 1980 was 5.1 percent.
PART III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR IN ROMANIA
24.      Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy,
providing almost all of the nation's food and raw materials required for
agricultural processing industries, and continues to be important for foreign
exchange earnings. In 1980 agriculture accounted for 12% of national income,
29% of the labor force and 12% of export earnings. The proportion of the
total labor force employed in agriculture declined from 74% in 1950 to 29% in
1980, thereby releasing a large number of people for employment elsewhere in
the rapidly growing Romanian economy. Agriculture's share of national income
declined from 28% in 1950 to 12% in 1979, in view of rapid industrialization
in komania (para. 4).
25.      About 14.9 million ha, or 63% of Romania's land area, are used for
agriculture. Of this area, 66% is arable, 29% is grassland and 5% is used for
orchards and vineyards. About 64% of all arable land is devoted to production
of grain (mostly wheat and maize). Other crops include sunflower, sugarbeet,



- 8 -
soybeans, potatoes, vegetables, fodder crops, grapes and fruit. In 1979 crop
production accounted for 56% of total agricultural output, while livestock
accounted for 44%.
Sector Organization
26.      Romanian agricultuce has undergone a major transformation following
the collectivization measures introduced since the Second World War. Today
agricultural production, especially crop production, is dominated by state
agricultural enterprises (IASs) and agricultural production cooperatives
(CAPs). For example, in 1979, 87% of cereal production was in the socialist
sector. Production by individual farmers and from small private plots of
cooperative members is important for fruit and livestock but not for field
crops. Agricultural mechanization stations (SMAs) play a major role in
providing machinery hire services. Recently a number of Inter-Cooperative
Associations (ICAs) have been formed through combining the activities of a
number of individual cooperatives. These ICAs are engaged in various large
scale agricultural operations such as pig and poultry production.
27.      In 1979 Romania had 396 IASs with an average size of 5,100 ha and  an
average labor force of 550. They farmed 2.0 million ha, equivalent to 14% of
all agricultural land. Other state agricultural units, including research and
experimental stations and farms belonging to Popular Councils (local
administration bodies), covered 2.5 million hectares, or 16% of agricultural
land. In the same year, there were 4,400 CAPs, with an average size of 2,080
ha and 530 members. The total area of land under CAPs was 9.1 million ha,
equivalent to 61% of all agricultural land. There were 709 SMAs which provide
machinery services to producers. Each SMA had an average of 194 tractors plus
a wide range of other equipment. Each working member of a CAP is allocated a
small plot (normally 0.15 ha) which he can use for production of crops.
Members are also allowed to keep limited numbers of livestock on CAP land.
The individual plots of the CAP members account for about 6% of Romania's
agricultural land. In addition to these individual plot holders, there are
about half a million private farmers (average holding 2.4 ha) who own about 10
percent of total agricultural land. Most of their farms are in the more
mountainous regions. Together with CAP plotholders they produced 55% of all
milk, 60% of eggs, 42% of wool, 47% of poultry and 57% of fruit in 1979.
Individual sector's contribution is more than their proportionate share in
resources as they own only about 16% of agricultural land, 12% arable land,
46% of cattle, 24% of pigs and 44% of poultry.
28.      At the national level, the major State institution in the
agricultural sector is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI).
MAFI plays a major role in preparing the Five Year Plan for the sector and is
the supervisory institution for plan implementation. In each district, the
Ministry is represented by a general directorate, which is responsible for all
agricultural activity in the district including both IASs and CAPs. Marketing
is organized nationally under MAFI, with general economic directorates
responsible for processing and marketing specified commodities. Foreign trade
companies are responsible for the exports of the general economic directorates.



- 9-
Performance in the Agricultural Sector
29.      Although considerable progress has been made in developing
agriculture in Romania, the sector remains relatively undeveloped. There is
an increase in agriculture production for the 1976-80 period of 34% over the
1971-75 period as opposed to the plan of a 54% increase. Grain production
increased from 15.3 million tons in 1975 to 20.2 million tons in 1980, an
increase of 32%. Potatoes were 52% higher in 1980 compared to 1975,
vegetables 44%, fruit 29%, meat and milk production 21% and eggs, 24%.
Nevertheless, crop and livestock yields in Romania are still appreciably lower
than those obtained in a number of other countries. While agricultural
production has been increasing, the labor force in agriculture has been
falling. Labor productivity has thus increased much faster than agricultural
output. In 1979 gross agricultural output per worker was more than six times
the level in 1950. Despite this substantial improvement, the absolute level
of labor productivity is still relatively low. Labor intensive methods of
production, such as hand harvesting of maize and the use of animal-drawn
carts, are still common, especially on cooperatives.
Sector Issues and Development Strategy
30.      The resource constraints of Romanian agriculture relate to inadequate
rainfall, lack of machinery and farm inputs and problems concerned with
organization and incentives. Rainfall in Romania is both low and erratic,
especially in the main cropping areas in the southern plains. Flooding has
also been serious in many low lying areas. Fortunately the soils in the
southern plains are good, and there are excellent sources of water in the
Danube and its tributaries. Romania has therefore given high priority to
development of irrigation and drainage. The total area under irrigation has
increased from 200,000 ha in 1960 to 2.3 million ha in 1980. Government plans
to increase this to 2.9 million ha by 1985. The area drained will rise from
2.7 million ha to 3.6 million ha during the 1981-85 Plan period.
31.      berious shortages of machinery and farm inputs, especially
fertilizers, insecticides and herbicides have been experienced. These
shortages have been aggravated by Romania's foreign exchange needs, for
Government has sometimes exported fertilizers or restricted imports of other
inputs needed by the agricultural sector. Insufficient farm mechanization has
increasingly become a major constraint in view of shortage of labor (para.
9). Hitherto, Government policy has given much greater emphasis to
development of IASs rather than CAPs. IASs have been provided with the best
managers and have received much higher levels of investment and supplies of
tractors, machinery and fertilizers, while CAPs have been neglected. In 1980
the level of investment per ha of IASs was about four times that of CAPs, and
they were therefore more productive than CAPs. This neglect of CAPs has been
one of the key weaknesses of Romanian agriculture since CAPs control more than
60% of all agricultural land. In 1978 Government decided to accord equal
treatment to IASs and CAPs. This new policy is to be implemented through the
creation of Unified Agro-industrial Councils (UACs) which are responsible for
providing equal levels of service and material inputs to IASs and CAPs. About
700 UACs have been established, each with one SMA. On average each UAC will



- 10 -
be responsible for about 20,000 ha of land and for coordinating all
agricultural activities undertaken by the IASs and CAPs for which it is
responsible. Implementation of this new policy is still underway and it is
too early to assess the effectiveness of the UACs. These organizational
changes are being complemented by changes which link payments to workers to
achievement of profit targets, introduced in 1978 under the "New Economic
Measures". These changes have already been introduced on IASs and their
extension to cooperatives is planned.
32.      Agricultural policy is formulated within the framework of a national
plan approved by Government and the Romanian Communist Party. According to
the 1981-85 Development Plan, national income will increase by 7.1% p.a.,
gross industrial production will increase by 7.6% p.a. and gross agricultural
production at 4.5 to 5.0% p.a. Investment in agriculture in this period will
amount to 180 billion lei ($12 billion), equivalent to 15% of total national
investment for the plan period. The main thrust of agricultural development
strategy will be to increase crop and livestock yields through improved
organization, the use of more efficient techniques, especially greater
mechanization, increased use of fertilizers and other inputs, and large
investments in drainage and land reclamation.
Agricultural Investment Financing
33.      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Government's
specialized agency for financing projects in agriculture, irrigation and food
processing. As such, BAFI has been the Borrower for all Bank loans in support
of agriculture and would be the Borrower for the proposed loan. BAFI was
established in 1968 as a channel for, and administrator of, all investment
funds provided under the State plan for the agricultural sector. It lends to
both lAbs and CAPs and repays the Government as it receives repayments of
subloans. BAFI is involved in all phases of project appraisal, execution and
supervision, and it has a large technical and economic staff located in
Bucharest, in 39 district branch offices and in 92 sub-branches throughout the
country. BAFI has thorough review and approval procedures for all investment
projects. In addition to BAFI's review, all agricultural investments for more
than lei 10,000,000 ($0.67 million) are reviewed and approved by MAFI and
those greater than lei 70,000,000 ($4.7 million) must be approved by the
Council of Ministers. BAFI also provides short-term credit to, and maintains
settlement accounts for, all cooperative and State agricultural enterprises
and acts as fiscal agent for the Government for collection of State revenues
from these enterprises. As the Government's channel for investment financing
in agriculture, one of BAFI's primary source of funds is the State budget; the
Guarantee Agreement therefore includes a provision that the Guarantor shall
provide all necessary funds for the implementation and operation of the
project.
Bank Contributions in the Agricultural Sector
34.      The Bank's lending strategy is based on the findings of various
reports, including the Agricultural Sector Survey of October 1976 (No.
953a-RO), the Basic Economic Report of March 1978 (No. 1601-RO) and a number



- 11 -
of recent appraisal reports. A cattle and sheep survey was also carried out
during 1979 and its report is under review with the Government. Beyond the
provision of foreign exchange, the main objectives of Bank lending remain to
assist the Government in addressing the problems of production instability and
low productivity. Attainment of these objectives will help to raise the level
and quality of domestic food consumption.
35.      With increasing experience in the agricultural sector and a greatly
improved working relationship with the Romanian authorities, the Bank has been
able to make other significant contributions. Technical improvements in
project concept and design have been attained in a number of fields including
irrigation, poultry, pig and cattle production and horticulture.
Additionally, BAFI has introduced the Bank methodology in its economic
evaluation of subprojects. The Bank has made fifteen loans for agriculture
totalling $976.5 million since 1975. The Giurgiu-Razmiresti Irrigation
Project, the first agricultural project financed by the Bank in Romania, has
been successfully completed, and a report of the Bank's Operations Evaluation
Department on this project was distributed to the Executive Directors in
February 1981 which highlighted the fact that the project had been completed
with no cost overrun and with higher yields growing at a faster rate than the
appraisal estimates.
Project Area and its Agricultural Development PotenLial
36.      The proposed project area covers most of the Moldova region, which is
situated in the North-East part of Romania and includes six districts (judets)
(see Map No. 15867). The project area is one of the less developed areas of
the country; the consumption and production levels average only 75% of overall
Romanian levels. The project area is 33,000 km2, or 14% of the total area
of Romania with a population in 1979 of 3.3 million people, about 15% of
komania's total population. About 63% of this population live in rural areas
compared to 51% in Romania as a whole. Agriculture in the project area
employed 671,000 persons (20% of Romania's figure). There are 501 CAPs, 45
lAbs and 97 bMAs within the system of 97 UACs and 87,200 individual farmers in
the area. In 1979 the project area accounted for 14.2% of Romania's arable
land, 27% of vineyards, 13.7% of pastures, 16% of cattle, 9.6% of pigs and 17%
of sheep. It also contributed 12.4% of Romania's grains, 16% of sugarbeets,
15.7% of fruits, 29X of grapes and 14% of meat.
37.      The principal crops in the project area are maize and wheat.  However
average yields per hectare for maize and wheat are below the average for
Romania as a whole. Constraints to increased productivity are inadequate
fertilization and farm mechanization. While tillage operations in the project
area are fully mechanized, cultivation, harvest, and transport operations are
only partially mechanized. Significant crop yield losses occur due to
insufficient equipment for timely weed and pest control and harvest. During
the post harvest period in the autumn, significant crop losses occur due to
lack of transport facilities from field to silos. Rough estimates suggest
these losses may be in the range of 5-20%.



- 12 -
38.      A further constraint to increased crop production is soil erosion;
nearly 1.2 million hectares or 58% of the total agricultural area is
vulnerable to water erosion as ground slopes are steeper than 8 degrees. It
is therefore imperative to take effective measures to save these vulnerable
areas from degradation and to create conditions for mechanization and
intensification of agriculture. Although soil erosion protection works have
been going on in the project area for the last 15 years, only 41% of
vulnerable areas have so far been protected.
39.      The project area has excellent potential for livestock production as
it has 23.5% of the country's pastures and meadows. The project area also
accounts for 14% of Romania's total processed food production and its
agroindustries contribute 21% of the area's industrial production. Although
the area is also one of the most important viticulture areas in Romania,
average grape production is comparatively low due to older vineyards, low
yielding varieties of grapes and shortage of inputs.
40.      The support services to all agriculture production organizations in
the project area are provided by the MAFI directorate at the district level,
the BAFI branch in each district, the applied research and extension
institutes in the project area and by the SMAs existing in the project area.
Various research stations in the project area such as the crop and livestock
research stations issue the technical and economic guidelines for their
respective sectors, carry out applied research, and communicate the results of
the research to the production organizations.
Future Plans and Development Strategy in the Project Area
41.      During the 1981-85 period the project area is planned to achieve a
55% increase in gross agricultural production, compared to a 43% increase for
the whole country. Output of meat and milk would increase by 60%, wheat and
sugarbeet by 80%, and maize and sunflower by 72% over the levels achieved in
1979. These will be achieved by: (a) increasing fertilizer application per
arable hectare threefold over the levels achieved in 1979, (b) substantial
(US$390 million) investment in farm mechanization, (c) extending soil erosion
control measures to protect an additional 0.15 million ha, or 13% of the
vulnerable areas by 1985, and (d) almost doubling the investment in livestock
production compared to the previous Plan. Overall the planned investments for
the 1981-85 period in the project area will be $1.7 billion, or 14% of the
country's total agricultural investment in the same period, and will be
allocated as follows: 23% for mechanization, 29% livestock, 17% agroindustries
including silo and storage constructions, 19% land reclamation including soil
erosion works, 10% crops and 2% for others including infrastructure. The
emphasis on farm mechanization and livestock production is appropriate due to
the project area's low level of farm mechanization, emerging shortages of farm
labor and its considerable potential for livestock production.



- 13 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
42.      The project, which is included in the Government's 1981-85 Five-Year
Development Plan, was originally discussed with a Bank mission in September
1979. bank missions of April 1980 and June 1980 helped select the project
area ana outlinea the contenc of the preparation report. The project
preparation report was received by the Bank in February 1981. Through these
stages of preparation, the Bank has discussed the project concept extensively
with the Government and has made significant contributions to formulating the
tirst regional agricultural development project to be financed by the Bank in
Romania, addressing the problem of unequal agricultural development among the
regions in the country. A preparation mission visited Romania in March 1981,
and the project was appraised in May/June 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington in November, 1981. The Romanian delegation was headed by Mr. Ion
kusinaru, President of BAFI and included representatives from BAFI and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal
Report - Moldova Agricultural Credit Project No. 3650-RO dated December 4,
1981 is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The main
features of the project are mentioned in the Loan and Project Summary and in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
43.      The project addresses the major problem of low productivity and
production of the Romanian agriculture sector in one of the country's less
aevelopea regions, Moldova (see Map No. 15867). The project is part of an
overall integrated plan covering the period 1981-85 to develop the
agricultural sector of this region. This plan contemplates financing of
investments which have been selected to strengthen and increase the resource
base to achieve substantial increases in agricultural productivity and
production in the project area thereby contributing to fulfillment of broader
objectiv'es of the economic betterment of the area's population and an
expansion ot the food supply for domestic consumption.
Project Description
44.      The project would cover about 17 percent of the Government's overall
agricultural development investment of about $1,671 million equivalent in the
project area during the 1981-1985 period, and implement the following priority
components among the Government's overall investments in the area through a
program of subloans to be made by BAFI; (a) farm mechanization, (b)
agroindustries, (c) soil erosion control works, (d) credit to individual
producers, (e) pasture improvement, (f) dairy farms, and (g) vineyards. Part
of the investments under the overall development plan for the project area is
includea under the ongoing Bank-financed nationwide Livestock and Orchard
Projects. These investments have been identified and excluded from this
proposed project. Under the project, about 6,500 tractors, about 1,500
harvesters ana combine-harvesters, together with other equipment including
trailers tor transport would be financed and incorporated into the 97 SMAs in
the project area. CAPs would benefit most from this investment since their



- 14 -
low productivity is partly caused by inadequate mechanization. The
agroindustry component would comprise a sugar mill of 2,000 ton/day capacity
tor sugarbeets, a flour mill of 25 ton/day capacity for wheat or corn, a cold
store of 3,000 ton capacity, two grain silos each with a capacity between
22,000 to 34,000 tons and three flat grain stores with a total capacity of
25,000 tons. The projected production increases of cereals, milk and
sugarbeets would require and justify these agroindustry investments. Funds
woula also be provided for soil erosion protection to about 142,000 ha.
bubloans woula be made to about 12,000 individual producers for financing,
mainly, purchase of dairy heifers and sheep breeding stock. Under the
project, about 44,000 ha of pastures located in hilly areas would be improved
out of a total of about 557,700 ha of natural grassland in the project area.
Improvea pastures would be utilized for grass and hay mainly by CAP
plotholders and individual producers. BAFI subloans would also be made to
about 18 CAPs for renovation and modernization of dairy farms. Remodelling
woula increase the stocking capacity of existing cattle barns by about 30
percent. The vineyard component consists of establishing about 450 ha of new
vineyards and modernization of about 1,200 ha vineyards. All vineyard
investments would be unaertaken by CAPs in three districts in the project area.
Cost Estimates
45.      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is escimated at lei 4,353.5 million ($290.2 million). The foreign exchange
component is estimated at $97.6 million or 34 percent of the total cost. The
cost estimates are based on unit rates of work that are prevailing in Romania
under the system of regulated prices of materials and wages, and reflect the
costs that woula prevail at the end of 1981. Cost of equipment, spare parts,
ana chemicals expected to be procured from foreign suppliers, has been
calculaced at the international prices likely to prevail at the end of 1981
and estimated at $7.0 million. Since the Romanian regulations require careful
estimation of investment costs resulting in very few cost overruns, physical
contLingencies have been providea at an average of 2.4 percent of the base
cost. The price contingencies average 6.5 percent of base cost plus physical
contingencies and are compounded annually, on foreign costs, at 8.5 percent
(1982), 7.5 percent (1983) and 6.0 percent (1984-85) and on local costs at 2.5
percent per annum. In the past the Romanian domestic prices have increased
less than one percent per annum. However, they are likely to rise faster in
future as a result of che exchange and price reform introduced in early 1981
(see para. 17).
Financing
46.      The proposed Bank loan of $95 million, representing about 33 percent
of the total project cost, and about 97 percent of foreign exchange costs
would be maae to BAFI for fifteen years including three years grace. The
Government of Romania would bear the foreign exchange risk. BAFT would
contribute about $184 million equivalent or 63 percent of the total project
cost, and the remaining 4 percent or $11.2 million would be contributed from
subborrowers' own resources. The Government has, in principle, agreed to seek
cofinancing of up to $100 million for this project. The amount and timing of
cofinancing will depend on market conditions and amounts being raised by
Nomania on other Bank-financed projects.



- 15 -
47.      Out of the project funds, about $13.6 million equivalent would be
onlent to CAPs, about $53.6 million equivalent to IASs, about $47.1 million
equivalent to Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works (DELIF),
about $14.2 million equivalent to Popular Councils, about $16.5 million
equivalent to individual producers and about $134.0 million equivalent to SMAs
which would benefit mostly CAPs. BAFI would onlend these funds for terms of
up to 10 years including up to 3 years grace to IASs, SMAs, DELIF and Popular
Councils at 2 percent per annum during the construction period and 4 percent
thereafter, for terms of up to 16 years including up to 3 years grace to CAPs
at 3 percent per annum, and for terms of 5 years for individual producers at 3
percent per annum. As a result of Government controls on domestic prices,
Romania is expected to maintain its domestic inflation rate at less than 2.5
percent during the project implementation. Thus BAFI loans under the project
would be made at positive real interest rates, and on the same terms and
conaitions as are extended to other borrowers in the agricultural sector.
Project Implementation and Operation
48.      The project would be carried out by CAPs, IASs, SMAs, the pasture
enterprises, DELIF and individual producers under agricultural credit
subprojects administered by BAFI. BAFI's six branch offices in the project
area would be responsible for overall supervision and monitoring of
subprojects with assistance from District Offices of MAFI, the area research
stations and the food inspection services. Subloans would be made by BAFI to
97 bMAs existing in the project area to carry out the farm mechanization
component. The operating procedures of the SMAs are generally satisfactory
and the maintenance and repair programs of these SMAs are extensive and
satisfactory. Costs of operations as well as depreciation would be recovered
from charges established by law. BAFI subloans would also be made to DELIF
for soil erosion protection measures and schemes in the project area. DELIF
and its assisting agencies are well experienced and fully competent in
carrying out the tasks. The investments in agroindustries, dairy farms, and
vineyards woula be implemented by IASs and CAPs who are engaged in similar
on-going operations. Pasture improvement schemes would be implemented by
Pasture Enterprises which exist in each district. BAFI and MAFI would ensure
that they would make available adequate amounts of chemical fertilizers and
transport tacilitiles for the pasture improvement component, and adequate
numbers of tractors and other farm equipment for the farm mechanization
component (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01 (a)(ii)). Prior to the first
disbursement for this component, they would submit for Bank review, detailed
guidelines for grazing control measures and their supervision as well as a
schedule tor training of personnel of the entities operating the pastures
(Loan Agreement, bchedule 1, para. 3(f)). Credit to individual producers
would be channelled by BAFI through credit cooperatives which are widespread
throughout the project area. The procedures for financing the types of
investments included Ln the project are well established under previous Bank
tinanced Livestock, Orcharas and Irrigation projects, and are satisfactory.
BAFI maintains detailed records of sub-borrowers' financial and production
results relative to subproject appraisal expectations and would submit to the
Bank quarterly reports (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). Since necessary
information would be available from BAFI's branch offices, the incremental



- 16 -
cost ot monitoring project implementation would be negligible. Technical
assistance to the cooperatives, State farms, SMAs, DELIF and individual
producers carrying out subprojects would be provided by MAFI, research
statlons, and the food inspection services, under an ongoing program of
assistance to such entities and individuals. All subproject investment
proposals would have to be confirmed as included in the Five Year Development
Plan by the responsible MAFI agency before appraisal by BAFI.
Aualt
49.      bAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures and
its transactions are subject to continuous control by internal auditors and an
annual audit by inspectors appointed by the Ministry of Finance and from the
Court of buperior Control which reports directly to the Council of Ministers
and the President. BAFI's accounting system and the audit of its transactions
are satisfactory and BAFI's audited operating and financing results would be
sent to the bank not later than six months after the end of BAFI's fiscal year.
Markets
50.      The analysis of the market and of the demand and supply pattern
inoicates satisfactory market prospects for incremental output under the
project. The total incremental production from the project is expected to be
used to meet growing domestic demand. The increase in domestic demand is
expected to be substantial in view of the planned increases in per capita
consumption of food products, which are low compared to levels in most
European countries, and expected 5 percent population growth over the Plan
period. The project's incremental production of meat, sugar, and fruit are
estimated at 19,000 tons, 26,000 tons, and 60,000 tons respectively, compared
wLth the projected demand increase for these products of 33,000 tons, 26,000
tons, and 72,000 tons respectively, in the project area. Thus, all
incremental production of these commodities can be consumed in the project
area itself. The incremental grape production is estimated at 70,000 tons
which would enable the project area to maintain its present 29 percent share
of national market, and market prospects are satisfactory. The incremental
maize production of about 354,000 tons would have ample markets mainly as
animal feeds, for which the projected incremental demand nationwide, between
1981-85, is 5 million tons.   The incremental wheat production of about
516,000 tons would be utilized largely in the project area to raise the per
capLta consumption levels which are below the comparable national levels.
Although Romania has been a net exporter of wheat and overall emphasis is
being placed on increased exports in view of the present balance of payments
situation, Romania plans to avoid achieving this at the expense of domestic
consumption. Incremental project output, including that from individual
producers, would be handled by the appropriate marketing Centrals and their
enterprises and collection centers in the project area, which are well
establishea.



- 17 -
Procurement
51.      Equipment and materials equivalent in cost to the proposed Bank loan
ot $95.0 million would be procured following international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credlts - March 1977". Romanian manufacturers would be allowed
a preference of 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower. 'With a few exceptions, the application of the preference has not
atfectea so far the outcome of bidding on previous agricultural projects, and
is not expected to affect significantly the result of bidding on the proposed
project. It is expected that foreign suppliers would win contracts estimated
to cost about $7.0 million for some of the equipment and chemicals not
available in Romania (agroindustry processing equipment, pesticides and
fertilizers (P205)). Other items to be procured through international
competitive bidding (about $88.0 million) consist mainly of farm machinery,
ana are available domestically. Romania is one of the major exporters of
tractors in the world and current markets include the USA, Eastern European,
ana third world countries. Current exports average about 40,000 tractors per
year. In view of the pressing need for foreign exchange earnings Romania has,
in the past, exported tractors without fully meeting the domestic need. Given
their competitive position in the market, it is expected that the Romanian
manutacturers of farm machinery would be likely to be successful in bidding
for most of these items. Cost estimates are based on the conversion rate of
Ub$l-lei 15. The remaining equipment works and materials, all domestically
produced, would be procured under Romanian procedures.
Disbursements
52.      The Bank loan would be disbursed against the following percentages of
total expenoitures, which represent the approximate foreign exchange component
of each type of subproject; 45 percent for mechanization, 25 percent for
agroinoustries and dairy farms, and 20 percent for soil erosion control works,
credit to individual producers, pasture improvement, and vineyards. Prior
approval by the Bank would be required for subprojects costing more than lei
70 million ($4.7 million) on the basis of technical and economic analysis made
by bAFI according to the methodology and format acceptable to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, bchedule 1, para. 3(d)). As is done in previous Bank-financed
loans for agriculture in Romania, the Bank would disburse against certificates
of expenditures, the documentation for which is not submitted for review but
is retained by BAFI and made available for inspection by Bank supervision
missions. For the sugar mill investment under the project, BAFI would submit
to the bank the detailed investment study, and the Bank would review this
aocumentation as well as actual operations of selected existing mills in
Romania prior to approving the subproject for disbursement (Loan Agreement,
bchedule 1, para. 3(e)).
Environment
53.      komania maintains a comprehensive system of standards and controls to
ensure satisfactory waste disposal, and a strict system of penalties is
maintained to ensure compliance. Facilities financed under the project would
be constructed ana operated in conformity with this environmental protection



- 18 -
code. The tacilities would include suitable waste water and effluent
treatment systems. The project's soil erosion control measures would assist
in preserving the fertility of the agricultural land and reduce the
sedimentation entering the resources. Intensity of floods in the project area
would also be reduced as a result of the soil erosion control measures.
benefits and Risks
54.      The proposed project would help the Government to lay the foundation
tor efficient agricultural development in an area where the per capita
consumption and production levels average only 75 percent of the comparable
nationwide levels. The quantifiable benefits from the proposed project derive
mainly from the increase in production and productivity. These would be
mainly achieved through: (a) mechanization of agriculture which is essential
tor improved efficiency and production increase, particularly in the face of
declining agricultural labor force, (b) provision of mere systematic
assistance to individual producers who have so far been neglected with the
Government's emphasis on agricultural collectivization, and (c) preservation
and improvement of agricultural land and pastures. The value of annual
incremental production induced by the project is estimated at $136 million
equivalent in 1981 prices. The project would directly benefit about 29,000
bhA employees, 169,000 CAP members, 14,000 IAS employees and about 12,000
individual farmers and CAP plotholders in the project area. The project would
also provide over 1,000 new jobs in agroindustries and the SMAs in the project
area. The quantifiable return from the project is mainly to the economy as a
whole but some indirectly goes to beneficiaries through general wage
increases, better public services and better availability of goods. Foreign
exchange earnings are expected to accrue to the economy mainly from limited
exports of grains, meat and fruits, while increased self-sufficiency in such
commodities as sugar and soybean will help to save foreign exchange. The
overall economic rate of return for the whole project is estimated at 31
percent. The economic rates of return for major project components such as a
farm mechanization, soil erosion control and credit to individuals whose costs
are $126.3 million, $41.2 million, and $20.0 million, are 32 percent, 16
percent, and 47 percent, respectively.
55.      Achievement of the projected increases in agricultural and livestock
production would be subject to the normal climatic uncertainties. The
investment in farm mechanization under the project would shorten the harvest
period for maize and grains and improve the timeliness of cultivation and
application of inputs to lessen the impact of unfavorable weather conditions.
The risk of not attaining project objectives due to cost overruns, major
construction delays or inadequate supply of inputs or services is considered
low. Experience with other Bank-financed agricultural projects confirms this
assumption. bAFI, MAFI and construction trusts have experience with other
similar successful operations. Project costs are mostly based on officially
regulated prices which are relatively stable. BAFI and the Government would
assure that the supply of adequate agricultural inputs and services,
particularly chemical farm inputs, livestock feed components, farm machinery,
ana fuel, would be secured for the project (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01(a)(i)
and (ii)). Projected production increases and development are based on



-, 19 -
applied research and experience in comparable areas and are considered
reasonable. Sensitivity analysis shows that the project is moderately
sensitive to adverse variations in benefits, but is not sensitive to other
variables.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for
Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Republic of Romania and the Bank, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
57.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
58.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV. RECOMMENDATIONS
59.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 4, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-20-                                                 ANINE  I
SiULC 3A                                              Page 1 of 5 pages
IOttMIA -SOC7TAL INDtCATORS DATA 1kg:?
I4ANIA                             RPKRINCE Cit5Ps (WEICHTCD AVqAGS
LAND ALCA (THOUSAND              50CEM )                                                  MOST RXCECNT CSTIATE0
TOTAL            237.S                               MOST 3UCCNT              ED-DU INCOME             INDUSTiAL1ZD
AGCICULTURAL      149.7             1960 Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb               ELMOfl              MKgT ECOt0HIZS
ClI PER CAPITA (US$)                   ..       4O.0    1900.0                      2609.1                  144.0
ltERCY CONSU 4PTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1468.8     3040.7   4810.0                      2366.4                  7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 18407.0    20361.0  22066.0
UUAN POPULATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL) 34.1        40.8      47.1                       53.2                    76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     25.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       29.0
YEAR STATIONAIY POPITLATION IS REACHID               2075
POPULATIoN DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                      77.5        85.7      92.9                       80.6                   142.7
FU  SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0      135.0    146.1                       133.9                   523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        28.2        25.9      25.8                       30.1                    22.8
15-64 TRS.                        65.1        65.5      64.3                       61.5                    65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  6.7         8.6       9.9                        5.3                    11.6
POPULATION GROTHT  RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.2         1.0       0.9                        1.5                     0.8
UBAN                              4.1         2.8       2.5                        3.1                     1.3
CRUDE SIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    20.0        20.1       18.1                      22.9                    14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER ThOUSAND)     9.0         9.9       9.4                        9.1                     9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION PATE             1.2         1.3       1.2                        1.6                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF KARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         89.0        90.0     151.0                      119.8                   112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 108.0       115.0    130.0                       125.7                   131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         86.0        90.0     103.0                       92.5                    98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      30.0        34.0      43.0                       39.7                    62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     3.8         2.5       1.3                        3.4                     0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   65.5        67.8      71.0                       68.9                    73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (FER
THOUSAND)                          75.7        49.4      31.4                       25.2                    12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURUL                     ..       ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICLI           780.0/c     840.0/d  737.5                       973.3                   621.2
POPULATION PER NURSIKG PERSON     620.077        ..    638.0                       896.6                   217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           130.0/c     120.0     108.7                      262.3                   119.4
URBAN                            5o.077      50.0      72.7                      191.8                   120.9
RURAL                           62zo.o7     770.0    816.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        23.0        ..                       18.2                    17.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              *-         3.2/e
URBAN                              ..         2.87V.
RURAL                              ..         3.477      .
AVERACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         1.4/a
URAN                               ..          1.37      ..
RURAL                               -          i.477     .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        49.0/       .
URBAN                              ..        86.07       ..
RtRAL                               -        27.o77      ..e



_ 21 -
MT'NEX I
TABLE 3A                                                     Page 2 of 5 pages
ROHANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECMANIA                              fUFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGER
- HO)ST REcEtr ESTIMATE)~-
MOST RECENT               MIDDLE INCOKE            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                 EUROPE               MARKET ECONOHIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        112.0     106.0                       105.9                      99.6
MALE                 101.0       111.0      109.0                       109.6                    102.1
FEMALE               95.0        113.0      103.0                       102.2                    101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 24.0         44.0      84.0                         66.3                     89.3
MALE                  27.0        51.0       90.0                        73.2                     83.3
FEMIALE              22.0         38.0       77.0                        59.5                     85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  54.0          58.0      84.0                         28.4                     18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            25.0         21.0      23.0                        26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                          16.0         18.0      22.0                        23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        88.6/f         ..      98.0 /                       75.4                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            .          2.2        ..                        83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        120.0        151.0     142.8                       181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         72.9     146.0                       131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
TNOUSAND POPULATION                 147.0        168.1     171.4                       123.8                     336.7
CINE2MA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0          9.8       8.3                          5.7                      4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10405.1       11408.2   12084.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   42.5         44.5      44.6                        32.9                      36.6
AGRIXULTURE (PERCENT)              65.3         49.1      32.5                         34.0                      6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.1         23.1      33.5                        28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                56.5         56.0      54.8                         42.3                     45.7
HALE                                 64.5         63.3      61.5                         56.5                     58.9
FEMALE                               48.4         49.0      48.2                         28.5                     33.0
ECONDEIC DEPENDENCY RATTO               0.6          0.6       0.7                          0.9                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                                ..                 ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOL'SEHOLDS           ..         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                   ..
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRLN                                .            ..        ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     394.0
RIJRAL                               ..           ..     394.0                       385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                          ..                 ..
RUL                                  ..           ..         ..._
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
ong the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, deta for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
And 1971i and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d WHO estimates;  /e 1966;  /f 1956; Li 1975.
Hay. 1981



-22 -
LiAK,1 ' PXT
P~age 3 cf 5 pages
DIFINITt07 Of 00114L In 1C0(041
MM.         .4~7.44. A440 d.in "'       ft.   m..  ..erl            )7.4Il  .  1 eehelttl.                ".I..I.. it .t.e.1   co. W.  -"4 41.7 01.7  447  m . 144.7
m4imolllp ..dev.0l. he.m    .7 :h- Iv.k .7  *U47i.4    .Lt411                   WA Io.tPCP e vd br 477lf-*e  It.1L.. I. 7.I1407i7  71. 4...  1%o 4                  .7. Sme-,
WM  W7-r          It.". I7.  11) 71.  w.-Int     V."p If  h.4 .4bj..  eIuIC,  44  707 I I-"7.  II.e, rIlk                      kks) 114.. Loe~c14.-   h"  t14 IIItfy P
Of th. bee .*j.    Cl47l  (-..eC f..  C.*1141 I-lerl   O1il       ot.    p.eup 40.- riddle44414 1.e..  Il7l             ..A7 Middle 474 ..,2 ' 14 ob.44   ba4.-- .Ift44
,beci-.oe-1 .7i17.4              . the ,.fnv.. p.   4-7  Wo  _.g.  ... 7  14.1.77..t 7.7407.4  OciL,tto  11.  III  -h ivia.ttd *b7   3417  I
in7I.ey .4  she  -..neI-  I.    C e."  M.4... 7.%.the.                     St107~. ...k  1  4.  .d7. .4  Ctti . me          the   -do._t  dere. .4 01 'M .1.1          If7 .444.
61.7       .7...l                    .v-If-.M    Co niL"e  -.me.   If -   1.47..t.. C.  .4t1..7   Th.. ...oo*v.1o  -(.I7 1. L.c.*7L5the71  V1. .7
- *444.44...~~~~~~~~~ S II..  cvo the c.74t77 .74 c.7.cmc~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~FIpulll                                          ....
'Yjk   947.1 Suet4. .7.  enI..   1.74  -.   -d 1.14.  . .....                                        .lb-.. 7d ,.e...) 41.1474 by7 tO.            .0- 1. It 4..     Ib7 ..rtt.1 7d.4
r *7.1..   .glelo. Stub   e ..4-  t. .   Iteti.    p.7....1                     ..Idb. hbI IC .1, C.1   .7  971741. L.e -   I   Id4 tpl"4Ii.7   0,1- .1  77
0CICtv4..ht            1711.*.t.  , I                 .1.  10   44                      eilt,.   e...             4911   ,  *,2.o.I.lv               -,. .Ly  ..IYU
by  C2 i.t_   PI. phyo1_.  K.teblI.7i -7  ,retdift plOfyC,.=
flf IfJ.I1 t)  -        p .O 1414.43.                  ct.7.1pi..1                               dial     .     .1  1*4 .47    I.Pat .. I     ptl,bvl..i0,404
4. WT7   b    m   444.4. 7         C  V.71 Wel .k dalt.  (17-19 0.41.); 1940.                     4.      40it*(-t Pvc.etiy  t..447                      'h,  9.01.  (l   byI
toll,  4....                                                                -d~~~~~~~~~~~~447. 4.4 fl.t.    lfted f.. T.) ..t..     ff.1 itt...  . C--
44.1. SY)1..i... .4, ,,40f7-_7t4 - 1.7.c .P.,7  vi.;.1v7.ee 7.47  dtethotu
awyoM~~Mid-I    f w- A. .1 JIt INC94. 1770. .7d 1071
dead.                                                                     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vre   It.. .4 Oce11--md C .ev.  .47It    b.,.eheil-7....1...4  ,.
971.. 7ctel.79v l tt.   IIS..)    4 . If  t..   . e..I PvscItlete;                                       Id ..411  I.etti   o.o.714t4....  the.. I              1177.ve
4t17...e  4.71.71.. .7v... !.7...              If-,7  -p-tth1 Ly .4  47                                tel  *i)t et-I..  A 7 .4. d.  P, 1.dgm. vy .7 .4   4t b.7 7471744 L4
mge74;1940. 1770. v.W 1479 4..                                                           te1..e.M1   Pe i                   u .14   9eP--
'40 life 4474.i  C.     - tt   744.44.tt .171.cmety'C  .17c.ie  7.We-19107..4 If P.,-. P.,                           Le .7.7   -f 4.1.7. Pt  _ 71. =7..  .4W.1-I
.77.1 74  iv.iliy  ced el.  he.  71..   -ift.i......vI ...417CY I.e  .                    .4  471.et..74,cld.iee  7epeti.I7
7.4071177 9 l..ltI P fe  p.je... blltp.8 ..    741.577- iTh.ll.e.7  7.11
tett   i? . .dL8 - it_  .7.1.4. W.p Itt.  7.  1... gt.C.t1 . .vte1740.14       0..Sl  7    me-104tlI   ee.4t
ad.111.ni   ve.1t felt            4.471. ce-4.v.4   1.7..ec..                                 44".4clei F .7 411 ktlee7   b   74,tI                     p7775. 7c..i
.71.    et...Thu1..411.74  al t   .77c   7.IlIt..    .   4.lie7490.7    -.414epeelte                                                  G..el    Po.1.   -ld.e4ged I-L.
tI. bin  .t.n    1.-.I ef a1. e-l  -..pr .dve         L- 1tm.07. I4, It-.   C.t41                  !7               , Ib djse   fe    1y.i1.ib I_7 pc.e7             Ife717  -P.e .
ef-       eci.-.  7i.41 .4471.d  The I.7.7.74.7141 ty    . e.         eC.  7. .Lt7t.4 .1 -1.                               p.1.cedl 74.7471 l7 ve.i4e-td   MIA.:4 10 d 6CtL.
Ibe  F.tc  .4 7     -14 el If  77. pe.777 ..F     c 7Y1C.774pev.i4                                  I     4.. but 11. ec  dvi..f-    I-$lb71. efio.  47I.4.1 .            f4.
If71 keke,   004  .4t           " ee.4 4. PC.  :1.7 7.7117  7t  I4cll...                        0.4r,.b1-                           I'1 e. 7  7l,     C47oev  '.     1 "O .74
.I-. icl                                                                                            ..et7.01.tIfllb.    t 1.417 4lb,   y-....e   fpte.v4 .1 ..?1.t70
1117m e7.7 2000e7 W4. t4e.4 1.7..  If dl- 11470 che  .77447I'Mt.                                     ..4.i.tl  oett.1. yr  tecr (ttatoId.ct10    e   .
77.. 7.. 1.44. t4e41..d.                                                  147,4117~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6 tt .7     -11 7..e.7  7v;... .f I.e   tce.  7   ultcII.;
- Kid-7..c p.pviiic. per .qv~c  bilintet (1741,7.7..) 07       9,1-14.41 .ee01.e  C07.7e    ..c-. p.Sl1 -          1      Wb104   L.77   ..ttea
ic  c.  .   470e7.il144     077    .   t...77  .ttel...11..4111-rca  dip.7.f.l .4..4e4.t7   1.11,71044-.
esly; 1OSS. 1070 474 1974 447.                                                                    e1...1r771       t..r   EA  .eA..r- t171   tdtt   e,14l
17144174  Ade07ct7c      v7Ci- 014 .    L (1...   `7.1.4-... (111                                 900... y   ..e;-t4ICY 1..l 1.1Ill4 by  h..t.  t.hc                     .71
1447.; 170. 1970. ..d 1979 4474.                                                                  44717 IiOt.c, Y..(.4,-4.)   Li.. 1 .171   d.41. (.bth  1e C.7  .7d .717.)
7.40  .y.147e..  ec 171-Il.1740-7. .7  197-7
1414. le  100.0,196.0-1.  W7  I97.17                                                       F -.44   C.. Pev  ib..C           ..,_ cIe)     pe.ee,g- ..I. 7._P,I.   7
£7.. ieth441  f.e tote.o) - =.1 11.. 1il.7.  P.. 114.44.4A If id-,..                          74ev  Z44711  1..1.. .7    p ..;.old    ehI,4.b-r-  eed
S774. IP-71 44t1  &v.i4.el - I4471 4-.                  p14   h0 7.4. .74  If vI-ye..              L&4d 7. 4  !... E.       h-47444 .         I1717 t -A A11  I77  0   tcle.r. 7c  'a414
Pet.Pa.o:- 1940, 1970,.7   1979 d.t...                                                             he44..:7e Cc &-v.1  141.1   p.c  h1,..4e  oP.Pulelt    I47.t1e
Cr...  49,744714.Pai.-rvrti  .e   If . -7  e .4 ... me. 11 1ve  1.                        1..4  eer..Iit  ,.atIet.4  tyAce 7.i  cett.-t 177d.  -44i.
14. vre                    "ILee4,f .    P--7 4...tpr.0o    r..  ei-ve.t7   I-             ~        7t4i   ffet   ..fe7c    oC-e  tc7 50t b.4 i.0..                          l.c
71117CY  I4ee  e.o411  itr-Ye.- . g.. edli.  I  1900, 1970. .74 19741                                        -L.    MI0v71cb1.7 Id coli
.1 blt1.-..te.1devIc. ,7i, .,p10..of ..10.17.411  p1441.. p.77e.          74.741 11.114747g-..,174ptll1.71.; .v174e,o11                       TV.4 ....evL...t
I S                       Pie.  ocoo   l  47.4e.e -  Pvr.4tie   f  -.rI.                   1. 7e71. .7  Lv ree   be ..Ie.i10                    747 Tle. ... 17 effect.
.7 7.11-hecIagetc(1174 y.e.  71.       Web lth.....eI 4.,.ic   7.P.4.cC7,e7e(.  7.444.el,o)-7.7.  (eet..1c-
pbvI..Ivi.  dero-td p.1..rly t.   ..di.70   L.04    .7.I . Ioe.4......
p.74cliv .44114.0  c.i417.0.7774771.It       IdA.. .7.   .   .4  .                      777  .41d .f.W       the   4.,.Ioculid.4   4I.7           61.dIs-14 01-in
14.4e  W.1."4    Y..e 1.4...  CofILtl.Ce.7   t.r   pd. (Im   7447. Pu.  teil    C.1.
i..tv4.7   0i7   h"kc.c.           -A1144   771  7,171.77. 103   v74   7
-t.7   ....oS.    Aigoie-       Treuol.v 01roboo,tc'1 1..7  s
P., .4..I7.  u....  .7 Pt      Ie  -M,t..  ..  .v.,It...  eI- C0.."".. 7ev.                        a. 47.  7   ,viydbi  ,1eltbv.Oc.   74.. 
747477741.1.7e7ee7 (cd .,pl ic  oll.blp. 1   747  prCi1.0e0141pI410o  -i.l   0.101140  7Le71.    I.77, .. 
p. Aa . 4*1betpIle4...   ..ec74470.   144.7. P..                                           .47c..-bI.';t1740.1970 .04  1979 4.7..
metO..474 ~4.e  1,1 .            .. .0...7 lti4..0 ... eO.i774 e.                     rc1.4   14-c107  - 714.  eOr7r,.  p7.4C;a  Iof  ...1 t.1b, IfcrsI
9e4- 7.  ..  1. 7.44 pr.,cc.l4e . .d 17.0... L0 41-lb-t.7.7o.  .71-                             rSI44-7,rloece)      40 (P.,.....74.-4144   7..47 . w l 474d
rt.W ..ec. 4ti-d77  by 71   e.  .. I 1.71.01    v.d.  .,c vo..-I -I7-                          74.k1k, I. PI-.7... S   If ..4 7 I4 14.7 force.  1940. 1970 .7d 1779 d.7t.
14r.ot..1   _ 1..   10-.17..419747.1077  7    07   4.
P.,C17   ,cl  7cr71 .4c.4. 7-I    4frPT              Pr71      .t.e- t IP.,  .Pi.cItt            Pet[le  0   ..(.471-771..X                        4    ..7-Pr11410.
vet .np  07 4.74f  P-e f.Y.  OCt- lueply of food 1.dfCdee.r.    S.-                             47IiyceeetCprd.trl   4e   7   041114   ,7
ffe.ve.70 7.    e   74  p0v7P..dye42    .    7eie   7                                      77 1 9N70.I 47   794,.1                   b..e    v1.4  .711470   4v
3..   77If  .4 .1.41  10f       141   b  r.1p0.1.7....4 .el.7.I                                         74e..7e047O   71"   p..170, .n4.tIe7.4 
Ifea.  .e   11.1  110.0o   5gm74ttI90e7442 -r... .7                                         .. t. e....... 77.4 -.41PC.41   cV, L  t..               -          -A
04Id1.4    S-40; 1041-65. 1974 .7d 1977 4-.7..74   174  071 Ie.o7, foroe.
Per.4.14   ceitl.)ogjy2.. 1..0  e7  col.0fl0c1   .eyply If 7.4 de-
7174 7..  71v1e  44p.lc.  e 74.0p.71411 151-65. 1970 e74 1977 d.t..            t4CC(9  DlST7191774.
ChIld f..e1-)P.7410   A..I.   741.1 - 441 4-h7. p.c 71.407  1.                                     P.077.4 ot telr. leor   117. b             ltb4   174  - M4.7044 by 717h-4
7eicl ~ ~ ~ ~ II                                                                                         _h- 420                        20c -1.teb..A140  170-7 1-7 47.04 .e.oh-t.
P7077  OAJ£7T C707.7
eP P"1.7.19.170. 1177  -d4 1077 de..7-boI .                                                                         itep P                           -tt".74r    .7,7..
j!!77~!.51l.L.te  It-p0   07r1h..v1-44 4.7.oicllv4ca                                         7.07.41,.c 71.-7. -I  170. 1~1                       I.- olI.1 - 47b.h eodi.i-I
~~ 70741. 14~~~~74t. 474 7oitel -                                           ., ci. ~~~~~~~~170,L117  di.4.s7. 4.,107 . p ... 1..I uulcc  reol.o          0*.7
1..7pople   771.eia                        .. .ev(77. le.. .1l o.. . 7U741.77,4e :Ie.li.P                                     - L.ItS
17107  -bI   i. 4        .     7      b.-CC4(t ... ...L.... 4 I.J   744e4047                      .0474llcIeP10.Ito                     ad       tr    404)-417004r.
... .. ....... ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     44rtl         eol  4p.pItI.  ,74  4   ,01   1.  741.l7
44.47 7.0. 70 .7co4141.PeO,07770747. 74cr .,t 71.4 icr It 7.7.714; 71.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.CI
4I -       ..eh..e4    jr....7.7So4  i.-7  I   7b.  7   .
4.1.14. .7 p...pl. (747.1. ,7741. .74 7,7th  .47777 07 cRoreti 41.ponI 7.                                               Loo



-23-                                    ANNEX T
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL INCOME IN 1980 1/
_Average Annusl Grow~th (I)
US$Mln.                                1976-80          1976          1979            1980
National Income                          33,800                                  7.2             11.2           6.2            2.R
Gross Investment                        14,130                                  10.9              8.5           4.1            3.1
Gross National Saving                   11,710
Current Account Balance                 -2,420
Export of Goods, NFS                    12,087                                   5.3             14.7           -7.6           8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS                   13,730                                   8.8            15.7             4.3           0.5
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Net Value Added   I'                Labor Force   2/             N.V.A. Per Worlrer
USg MIn             X              Ml               X               US$               I
Agriculture                                 3,930           11.6              3.05           33.9            1,289            34.3
Industry                                  20,800            61.5              3.68           40.9            5,652           150.5
Construction                                3,200            9.5              0.86            9.6            3,721            99.1
Others                                      5,870           17.4              1.4            15.6            4,193           111.6
Total/Average                  33,800           100.0              9.0           100.0            3,756           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
(in billions of ele)
1976            1977             1978            1979             1980
Total Revenue                                              254.5            282.0           300.8            339.3           298.0
Total Expenditures                                         180.4            196.5           198.9            224.7           203.6
Current Surplus                                             74.1             85.5           101.9            114.6            94.4
Investment Expenditure                                      69.7             83.9           100.4            112.9            93.1
Overall Surplus                                              4.4              1.6             1.5              1.7             1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
Money Supply (blns of lei, end of year)                        .               .             85.6             87.6           110.6
Bank Credit to enterprises (blns of lei, end of year)          .               .            386.0            405.0           428.0
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                                 100.6           101.2            102.8            105.0           106.6
1/ Social material production methodology, excluding depreciation and output of the non-productive sector.
2/ Excluding non-productive sectors.
FMIDD
October 14, 198l



-24
ANNEX T
Page 5 of 5 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(US $ million )
1976       1977       1978        1979       1980            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 1980              us$ MIn        Z
Exports of Goods, NFS              6,642      7,357       8,728     10,133     17,087             Capital Goods                           2,836        2S
Imports of Goods, NFS             -6,540    -7,529    -9,319   -11,428   -13,730                  Consumer Goods                          1,737        16
Resource Gap                         102       -172        -591    -1,295      -1,643             Foodstuffs                                9n8          8
Interest Payments (net)             -118       -132        -168       -358        -777            Tntermediate Coods                      3,251        79
Balance of Current Account           -16        -304       -759     -1,653     -2,420             Raw Materials                  --       2,477        22
Irdustrial                (2,006)       (18)
MLT Borrowing                                                                                                 Agricultural                 (471)        (4)
Disbursements                     712        861      1,174       2,065      2,805                                                   11,209        10n
Amorti2ation                     -502       -562       -586        -809       -851
Net                               210        299         588      1,256      1,954            EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1980
MLT Lending, net                    -392       -358        -346       -309        -181                                                             UIq.i n
Short-term  Borrowing, net           124         256        487        821         449            Total MLT                                         7,574
of which convertible                          7,433
Other Capital 1/                      97       -199         150          34         -4            Total ST                                          2,14S
of which convertible                          2,124
Change of Reserves                   -23         306       -120       -149         202
= increase)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1Q80                            Z
Gross Reserves                       562         256        376        525         323
(ena of year)                                                                                    All Currencies, gross 2/                            14.0
All Currencies, net 3/                             11.7
Convertible Currencies, gross 4/                   23.S
Oil and Products                                                                                  TBRD TENDTNG, Aug.st 31, 1S81 S/                 USt Mln
Exports                           735        688         746      1,744      1,871            Outstanding and dishursed                         1,04S.1
Imports                           717        875      1,219      2,051       3,818            Vndishursed                                        662.5
Outstancling and undisbursed                     1,707.6
1/  Including errors and omissions.
2/ Debt service payments for credits received only.
3/ Net of debt service payment receipts for credits extended.
4/ Debt service payments included in convertible currencies as a percentage of export receipts in convertible currency.
5/ Includes only effective loans.
EMIDD
October 14, 1981



-25-                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of September 30, 1981)
US $ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                  Amount    (less cancellations)
Number      Year    Borrower            Purpose                     Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Nine loans tully disbursed                                          428.1                    -
1242-kO    1976    Investment Bank         Hydropower                50.0                    5.9
1368-RO    1977    BAFI/a                  Irrigation                60.0                    2.8
1436-kO    1977    Investment Bank         Bearings                  38.0                    4.8
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Polyester                 50.0                    6.3
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                    Agricultural Credit    71.0                      14.1
1509-kO    1978    BAFI                    Irrigation                40.5                    9.9
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Tire                      85.0                  43.6
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Post Earthquake           60.0                   18.9
1634-RU    1979    Investment Bank         Chemicals                40.0                     4.5
1651-RU    1979    Investment Bank         Pipe                     40.0                    38.3
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Thermal Power             70.0                   22.3
1669-RU    1979    BAFI                    Livestock                 75.0                   20.5
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                    Irrigation                70.0                  46.4
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                    Livestock                 85.0                   56.9
1794-RO    1980    Investment bank         Canal                    100.0                   14.1
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                    Irrigation               90.0                   85.9
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                    Orchards                  50.0                  48.3
1936-RO    1981    Investment Bank         Power IV                 125.0                  125.0
1937-RO    1981    BAFI                    Livestock                 80.0                  80.0
1938-RO    1981    BAFI                    Irrigation                75.0                   75.0
1971-RU    1981    BAFI                    Irrigation                80.0.E/               80.0
2034-RU    1982    Investment Bank         Highways/Railways        125.0.E/               125.0
Total                                        1,987.6                  928.5
of which has been paid                          60.8
Total now outstanding                        1,926.8
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             18.8                 1.0
Total now held by Bankb/                     1,925.8
Total undisbursed                                                     928.5
a/   Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/   Excluding exchange adjustments.
c/   Not yet effective.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTIONI/
Ln. No. 1020        Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1980
Project is in operation. After initial delays due to changes in site
and project scope and delays in design and construction, most plant units have
been commissioned during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant,
which was delayed due to slow delivery of local equipment, was commissioned in
April 1981. The loan is fully disbursed and closed. Investment Bank is now
preparing the first draft of the completion report.
Ln. No. 1027        Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$7Q Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975; Closing
Date. December 31, 1979
Execution of the project was delayed about one year, primarily
because of the complexity of two large bid packages, the Romanians' lack of
familiarity with international competitive bidding procedures under the Bank's
Guidelines, and lack of interest and competition among suppliers. More recent
delays have been caused by late delivery and quality problems with Romanian
manufactured equipment. The cold mill is not in operation and the bar mill
was scheduled to start operation in August 1981 but is now delayed to the
first half of 1981. Total project costs are expected to be essentially equal
to appraisal estimates. Final draft of the completion report is expected in
September 1981. The loan is now fully disbursed and closed.
Ln. No. 1028        Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of July
10, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:  November 6, 1974; Closing
Date; June 30, l979
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages and redesign of some elements found necessary will result in a
delay in commissioning of generating units. Three of the units have been
commissioned and the remaining unit is expected to be commissioned in the
first half of 1982. Operating staff is being trained. The loan is now fully
disbursed and closed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpovTer, tunneling works have been delayed which
is hoped to be partially recovered by a modern large surface boring machine.
Project completion will remain about two years behind schedule. Civil works
for the dam and underground power station are wTell underway but also delayed
by a similar period. One hundred percent of the loan amount has been
committed and 88 percent has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
completed. The area irrigated in 1981 reached 52,000 ha. Out of 11 dairy
farms, nine farms are in operation. Procurement contracts for almost all
equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negruvoda is
completed. The silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is expected to be completed by
December 1982. The loan is now fully disbursed and.closed.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977;
ClosinJ Dae: June 30, 1982
Contracts for all equipment and materials have been awarded.
Progress has been good until recently when a shortage of construction
materials and reduced allocation of investment funds have slowed down
implementation. Progress on main and distribution canals, pipe networks, and
drainage works are generally satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Contracts on all major packages, have now been signed, and
implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original schedule.
However, delivery of retainer presses will delay full completion of the
project by six months. Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly
over, appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project look
somewhat more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook,
improved product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product
costs.



- 28 -
ANNFX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Closing date was extended to March 31, 1982 due to delays in the
delivery of equipment for extrusion and drawing section which are manufactured
locally. Project completion is now expected in December 1981.
Ln. No. 1479        Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for establishment and
modernization of large-scale pig breeding/fattening farms, development of
selection centers, and provision of slaughtering and processing facilities.
ICB procurement is completed. Investments for State farms and slaughterhouses
continue to be ahead of schedule while those for cooperative farms and
slaughter and meat processing facilities are behind schedule. Quality of
workmanship and management of project facilities is satisfactory. Prospects
for project completion as scheduled are good.
Ln. No. 1509        Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Bids for all procurement contracts have been awarded. Construction
of project works is proceeding satisfactorily on all schemes except Calmatui
subproject which has slipped by about a year. Irrigation of the entire 98,328
ha will now take place in 1984 rather than 1983. The Zimnicea system can be
substantially completed this year.
Ln. No. 1536        Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness; June 9, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Plant
start-up is expected in December 1981 for the Zalau plant (truck tires), and
in May 1984 for Dobreta-Turnu Serverin (DTS) Plant (tractor and giant
tires).   Delays are also expected in the erection schedule at the DTS plant
as well as in the delivery of local equipment for the off-the road (OTR) tire
package. A request for extension of closing date and a reallocation of loan
proceeds has been received from the BorrowTer. Slow disbursements is due to
the delay experienced in obtaining a suitable supplier of technology and
equipment for the OTR tire package for DTS.



- 29 -                             ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1581        Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The closing date has been extended to June 30, 1982. The new
reallocation total of the eligible item list under the project has been
reduced from $70 to $63 million as the Borrower no longer wishes to use the
proceeds of the Bank loan on the earthquake center. The amount of $4.8
million representing the cost of the computer will no longer be financed by
the loan.
Ln. No. 1634        Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
There will be delays in startup of plants. The methanol plant will
be set back by a year because of delays in the delivery of equipment. The
acetic anhydride plant had some problems due to cracks discovered in the steel
coils supplied by Welders. The PVA plant will also be behind schedule because
of late delivery of locally made equipment. Most subprojects will be delayed
because of late delivery of critical equipment and unavailability of
construction labor.
Ln. No. 1651        Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 18 months. The
contract for the main technology package was signed in November 1979 but some
other required equipment (to be imported) has not yet been bid. Civil works
started in 1980 and supplementary equipment packages are expected to be bid
during the fall of 1981. Project completion is expected at the end of June
1983.
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by over one year because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for
implementation of both projects. Ninety-two percent of the loan funds have
been committed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Investments for
modernization of existing pig complexes are far ahead of schedule while those
for new pig breeding/fattening complexes and new slaughter/meat processing
facilities are being decreased. This shift is acceptable because of the
higher profitability in modernization. Contracts for procurement of
construction materials have been awarded, but a limited amount of
slaughterhouse equipment still needs to be procured.
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project;
US$70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Project implementation is 1-2 years behind schedule, but a revised
construction schedule and investment program are being prepared to minimize
delays. All contracts for equipment and materials have been finalized except
for the laboratory equipment and some contruction equipment. Supplies against
contracts are being received close to the schedule.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of January
11, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1980; Closing
Date; December 31, 1985
Project implementation continues to be satisfactory. Contracts for
construction materials, poultry farm and slaughterhouse equipment and
chemicals for vaccine production have been awarded. Romania's present and
expected shortage of high protein content poultry feed is closely monitored,
and concrete proposals made by the Bank to improve the situation are being
reviewed by the Romanian authorities concerned.
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is generally satisfactory although slight
delays in excavation and construction of protection walls have been
experienced. However, measures are being taken to make up for lost time.
Procurement has been practically completed; 100% of the loan amount is
committed and about 90% disbursed.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness:  July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Award of ICB procurement contracts has been practically completed.
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule mainly because of
shortage of construction equipment caused in part by slow ICB procurement and
delivery and by delays in transfer of equipment from other irrigation project
sites. The Government is conducting a comprehensive study of equipment
requirement and availability to improve planning and implementation.
Ln. No. 1876        Orchards Project; us$50 Million Loan of June 30, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project is progressing satisfactorily. The orchard component
exceeded appraisal planting schedule estimates by 80%. In the fall of 1980
and spring of 1981, 4,800 ha were planted. An additional 1,200 ha currently
are being planted, with future planting commitments totaling 11,715 ha.
Construction of 4 of 19 cold stores is under way. The technical assistance
component is expected to be finalized by year end, and the fruit market study
is under preparation by a special committee of 19 specialists.
Ln. No. 1936        Power IV; US$125 Million Loan of January 9, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project is off to a slow start due to delay in completing the bidding
documents for bank-financed items by the beneficiaries, its consulting
organization and trade enterprises as well as on reaching agreement with the
Bank on acceptable procurement procedures. Bidding is now practically
completed, and no further delays are expected.
Ln. No. 1937        Livestock IV; US$80 Million Loan of January 9, 1981; Date
of Effectiveness: April 7, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Tender documents for ICB procurement of construction material are in
an advanced stage of preparation. Procurement of agroindustrial equipment is
likely to be delayed to 1982. Upon Bank approval, international shopping
procurement will commence.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1938        bucsani-Buzau-Siret-Prut Irrigation Project; US$75 Million
Loan of January 9, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: October
14, 1981; Closing Date; June 30, 1988
The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize crop
production ana to raise productivity in a gross area of 158,485 ha in the
south-eastern part of Romania. This is to be accomplished through the
construccion of irrigation and drainage systems and related facilities.
Preparation of bidding documents are underway.
Ln. No. 1971        Caracal-Titu Irrigation Project; US$80 Million Loan of June
24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Loan documents were signed on June 24, 1981 and the terminal date for
ettectiveness is December 22, 1981
Ln. No. 2034        Land Transport Project; US$125 Million Loan of July 17,
1981; Date of Effectiveness; Not yet effective; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
Loan aocuments were signed on July 17, 1981, and terminal date for
ettectiveness has been postponed to November 17, 1981. For the railways
component, civil works have commenced on two subprojects--the-Danube bridges
and the new line between Vilcele and RM Vilcea, while for the roads component,
construction has started on the new link between Fetesti and Cernavoda.
bpecifications for equipment procurement have been reviewed and final bidding
documents are expected in the Bank shortly. Consultants are being retained to
carry out the Traffic Optimization Study.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary Project Data Sheet
bection I: Timetable of Key Events
a)   Time taken by country to prepare
the project                           10 months (April 1980- February
1981)
b)   Agency which has prepared the
project                               Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Industry
c)   Date of First presentation to
the bank, and date of first
bank mission to consider the
project:                              September 1979
(i)  Date of departure of Appraisal
Mission:                              May 21, 1981
e)   Date of completion of negotiations:   November 20, 1981
f)   Planned aate of effectiveness:          May 1982
bection II: bpecial Bank Implementation Actions: None
Section III: bpecial Conditions:
bpecial conditions of the loan would be as follows:
i)   The borrower and the Government would ensure that they would make
available aaequate amounts of farm machinery for mechanization
component and chemical fertilizers and transport facilities for
pasture improvement component, and that prior to the first
disbursement for the pasture improvement component, they would submit
for Bank review, detailed guidelines for grazing control measures and
their supervision as well as a schedule for training of personnel of
the entities operating the pastures (para. 48).
ii)  Prior approval by the Bank would be required for subprojects costing
more than lei 70 million ($4.7 million) on the basis of technical and
economic analysis made by the Borrower according to the methodology
and format acceptable to the Bank (para. 52).



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
113)   For the sugar mill investment under the project, the Borrower would
submit to the Bank the detailed investment study, and the Bank would
review this doucumentation as well as actual operations of selected
existing mills in Romania prior to approving the subject for
disbursement (para. 52), and
iv)   The Borrower and the Government would ensure that the supply of
adequate agriculture inputs and services would be secured for the
project (para. 55).



IBRD 15867
)6-                         ~~~~~~~~~2'7'                                                          AUGUST 1981
U.           S            S.            R.                                     ROMAN IA
APPRAISAL OF
asnis                     MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project area boundary
Project Components:
1    ~ Soil erosion control schemes
Modernization of dairy farms
7' S re                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vineyards
,T-                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cold store
8                                         v     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Grain stores
Elevations in meters:
1250-2000
F*700 -1250
200 - 700
4                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~0 - 200
ficen,                                               '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rimary roads
Secondary roads
.1 e'l                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
firquFrum s  ~ ~      ~       ®     Judet capitals
--Judet boundaries
earr,t4.                                                -Internotional boundaries
icitr        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  C2  3   05
~)ttflt                                                                                              knundamos shws on t,n rea
t                                                                                                           KILOMETiERSt 
~~coresR,                                            -       Br6ila *       M4c,v~3  W-/ B-csutf 
RU  L    AR   A  TsRc,~~~~~~hc ~~    ToFdoraj'Th,~~~~,  RAIL  A  ( ~~~~  to>. Isccc A~th- lea*f   6
ro Bc, do  28~~' Tu/pa a     hk,-t-e



