Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3650-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
December 4, 1981
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Agrica
Agriculture III
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit; Leu (plural Lei)
1. Tourist Rate (Effective February 15, 1981)
Lei 11.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.083
2. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods (Effective January 1, 1981)
Lei 15.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.091
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1_millimeter (mm)                    = 0.0394 inch (in)
lcentimeter (cm)                    = 0.3937 inch (in)
1 meter (m)                          = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                     = 0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)             = 0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 liter (1)                          = 0.2642 gallon (gal)
1 hectoliter                         = 100 liters
I liter per second (1/sec)           = 0.0353 cubic foot per second (ft3/sec)
1 cubic meter per second (m3/sec)   = 35.3147 cubic feet per second (ft3/sec)
1 atmosphere (at)                    = 14.2239 pounds per square inch (psi)
1 kilowatt (kw)                      = 1.3410 horsepower (hp)
1 kilogram (kg)                      = 2.2046 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (ton)                   = 2,204.6225 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAFI          -  Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry
CAP           -  Agricultural Production Cooperative
DELIF         -  Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation Works
DGEIFCA       -  Economic General Directorate for Land Reclamation
and Agricultural Construction, also called DIFCA
DRIAM         -  Design and Research Institute for Agricultural Mechanization
IAS           -  State Agricultural Enterprise
ICA           -  Intercooperative Economic Association
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
ISPIF         -  Institute for Land Reclamation Studies and Design
IUTIFPEC      -  Enterprise for Earthworks, Equipment, Land Reclamation
Design, Execution and Construction
MAFI          -  Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
SMA           -  Station for Agricultural Machinery
UAC           -  Unified Agroindustrial Council
ROMANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ROMANIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.          THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR .....................................                             1
A.   Project Background ......................................                             I
B.   Agriculture  in Romania ..................................                            I
C.   Bank Contributions  for the Agricultural  Sector ..........                          4
II.         THE PROJECT AREA ............................................                              5
A.   Sectoral Context ........................................                            5
B.   Description of Project  Area .............................                           6
C.   Agriculture  and  its Development Potential ...............                           7
III.        THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY  (THE BORROWER)...                             11
A.   Structure of Investment Planning  and  Banking  in Romania.                         11
B.   Role and  Structure of BAFI ..............................                          13
C.   Lending Policies and Procedures .........................                           14
D.  Lending Terms and Operations ............................                            15
E.   Financial  Situation and Performance .....................                          16
IV.         THE PROJECT .................................................                             17
A.   Project Objectives ......................................                           17
B.   Project Description .....................................                           17
C.   Cost Estimates ..........................................                           21
D.   Financing ...............................................                           22
E.   Disbursements ...........................................                           23
F.   Procurement .............................................                           23
G.   Environmental Effects ...................................                           24
H.   Role of Women ...........................................                           24
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         ..                               25
A.   Institutional Arrangements ..............................                           25
B. On-lending Policies and Procedures .26
C. Accounts and Audits .28
D.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation Procedures .28
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.      PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS    . .            29
A.  Production ..............................................    29
B.  Market Prospects and Arrangements .......................    30
C.  Prices ..................................................    32
D.  Financial Analysis ......................................    32
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                         ..                        33
A.  Benefits ................................................    33
B.  Economic Analysis .......................................    34
C. Sensitivity Analysis .36
D. Risks .36
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS.............................................    37
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:        Detailed Project Cost and Phasing             .      .        38
A. Project Cost Estimates .38
B.  Location and Phasing of Investments ................   39
Table 1: Total, Foreign and Local Costs   .       .41
Table 2: Annual Phasing of Project Expenditures..             42
Table 3: Number and Type of Agricultural Machinery to
be Financed .43
Table 4: Soil Erosion Protection Worksr.                      44
Table 5: Project Procurement Estimates   .       .46
Table 6: Project Disbursement Profile .          .           48
ANNEX 2:        Table T-1: List of Bank Loans Channelled Through BAFI    49
Table T-2: Gross Production of Crops and Livestock
Products (1979-85) .50
Table T-3:  Actual and Planned Investments in Project
Area and Romania (1976-85) .51
Table T-4:  BAFI - Sources and Applications of Funds
(1977-85) .52
Table T-5;  BAFI - Historical and Projected Balance
Sheets .........                               53
Table T-6:  BAFI - Historical and Projected Income
Statements .54
Table T-7:  BAFI - Selected Financial Ratios .55
Table T-8:  Key Technical Assumptions Underlying
Primary Production Models .56
Table T-9:  Key Technical Assumptions for Soil Erosion
Protection Component .58
Table T-10: Key Technical Assumptions for Farm
Mechanization Component .59



Page No.
Table T-ll; Key Technical Assumptions for Agroindustry
Component ................................   63
ANNEX 3:       Supporting Tables for Market and Economic Analysis .....  65
ANNEX 4:       Selected Documents and Working Papers Available in
the Project File .80
CHART
Chart No. IBRD 23113 Project Implementation Schedule .81
MAP
Map No. IBRD 15867






Staff Appraisal Report
Moldova Agricultural Credit Project
Romania
I. The Agricultural Sector
A. Project Background
1.1      The proposed project area covers the greatest part of the Moldova
region, located in the northeastern part of Romania (IBRD Map No. 15867).
This area consists of the following six out of a total of forty-one judets in
Romania - Neamt, Bacau, Vrancea, Botosani, Iasi and Vaslui. The project area
represents about one-seventh of Romania's total land and population and is one
of the country's lesser developed areas. The project is patterned after the
Sadova Corabia Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1083-RO) which has been
successfully completed recently. The Sadova Corabia project was also located
in a less developed region of Romania and provided credit for orchards, vine-
yards, dairy and beef fattening farms, a fruit handling and storage complex, a
feed mill, a pre-mix feed mill, refrigerated trucks and farm machinery for
state and cooperative enterprises.
1.2      The proposed project was first discussed with a Bank mission in
September 1979. Bank missions of April 1980 and June 1980 helped develop the
criteria for selecting the project area and outlined the content of the
Preparation Report. The Project Preparation Report was received in the Bank
in February 1981. A preparation mission visited Romania from March 26 to
April 1, 1981, and the project was subsequently appraised from May 21 to June
11, 1981. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. V. Bhargava (mission
leader), E. Hunting, H. Ochs, E. Schertz, J. N. Srivastava (Bank staff) and
B. Bilbo (consultant).
B. Agriculture in Romania
1.3        Agriculture continues to be a key sector in the Romanian economy as
a provider of food, labor, foreign exchange earnings and investable funds.
Between 1950 and 1979 the social product from agriculture more than tripled.
At the same time about 3 m /a people moved out of agriculture so that the
proportion of total labor force employed in agriculture declined from 74% in
1950 to 29% in L980. In view of the rapid industrialization of the Romanian
economy, the reLative contribution of agriculture to national income declined
from 28% in 1950 to 12% in 1980.
/a m = million



1.4      About 14.9 m ha or 63% of Romania's land area is used for agri-
culture. Of this area, 66% is arable, 29% is grassland and 5% is under
orchards and vineyards. About 64% of all arable land is devoted to the
production of grain; mostly wheat and maize. Other important crops are sun-
flower, sugarbeet, soyabeans, potatoes, vegetables, fodder crops, grapes and
fruits. In 1979, crop production accounted for 56% of the total agricultural
social product while livestock accounted for 44%.
1.5      Romanian agriculture comprises four types of production entities:(a)
state units, including state agricultural enterprises (IASs); (b) agriculturaL
production cooperatives (CAPs); (c) small individual plots (0.15 ha on
average) cultivated by 2.3 m CAP members; and (d) 0.62 m privately owned
individual farms. In 1979, there were 396 IASs in Romania with an average
size of 5,100 ha and an average labor force of 550 persons, and 4,400 CAPs
with an average size of 2,080 ha and 530 members. The IASs account for about
one-fourth of agricultural resources and outputs while CAPs produced about
two-thirds of total grains, almost 100% of sugarbeets and one-third of all
other major agricultural commodities with 75%/ of arable land and 40% of live-
stock. The CAP plot holders and individuals, collectively referred to as
individual sector in this report, produce roughly half the country's livestock
products, potatoes, vegetables and fruits. Their contribution is more than
their proportionate share in resources as they own only about 16% of agri-
cultural land, 46% of cattle and poultry and 24% of pigs.
1.6      The performance of Romanian agriculture over the last 3 decades has
been impressive.  Between 1951 and 1979, gross agricultural output increased
at an average annual rate of 4.5%. This was achieved as a result of increased
livestock yields, substantial increases in the number of all types of live-
stock, and increases in crop yields per unit area. The impressive growth in
agricultural production, besides meeting domestic food consumption require-
ments for a population growing at 1% per annum, made it possible for Romania
to achieve rapid industrialization. In addition to providing the necessary
raw materials for industry, the agriculture sector released labor for employ-
ment elsewhere in the economy and contributed to total exports and convertible
currency earnings, thus paying for a part of imported inputs needed for
industries. However, in recent years, performance of agriculture has not been
as good: (a) the agriculture share in total exports declined from 24% in 1977
to 17% in 1980; (b) during the 1976-80 Plan period agricultural production
grew by 6% against a plan target of 9.0%; (c) there were reports of scattered
food shortages; (d) the crop and livestock yields continued to be much below
thieir potential -- about one half that of developed countries; and (e) agri-
cultural trade surplus in 1980 was only about half of the surplus realized in
1975. The Government is concerned about the poor performance of agriculture
and declared it a priority sector for the 1981-85 Plan period. The
performance of Romanian agriculture continues to be well below its potential,
leaving significant room for improvement.



1.7      Several factors are responsible for performance below potential.  The
resource constraints of Romanian agriculture relate to shortages of
fertilizer, pesticides, herbicides and farm machinery, and inadequate rainfall
during critical periods. Shortages of farm machinery and farm inputs have
been aggravated by Romania's foreign exchange needs and the Government has
sometimes exported fertilizers or restricted imports of farm inputs needed by
the agricultural sector. The shortages of seasonal labor, particularly during
the harvest period, combined with shortage of harvesting machinery and storage
facilities have caused serious harvest losses. The policy constraints relate
to; (a) inflexibility of application of sometimes unrealistic technical
coefficients and standard designs; (b) organizational and incentive problems;
and (c) GovernTnent's policy to accord much greater emphasis to the development
of IASs in spite of their relatively small share in agriculture resources and
production (para 1.5) rather than to CAPs and the individual sector. The last
constraint appears to be changing and the Government is according equal treat-
ment to IAS and CAP sectors through the system of Agroindustrial Councils.
Finally, although the Government's stated objective is to accord top priority
to agricultural development, this commitment is not matched by increased
investment allocations to agriculture. Thus, the proportionate share of
agriculture during the 1981-85 Plan period will be at about the same level as
in 1976-80 Plan. Total investment in agriculture and food industry in the
period 1981-85 is expected to amount to about Lei 180 billion, which is equal
to 15% of the total plan outlay.
1.8      The basic goals of agricultural development during the Plan period
1981-85 will be similar to those of the previous plans and consist of: (a)
raising land and labor productivity by intensification and modernization of
agriculture; (b) improving the diet of the population by intensifying the
production of high value crops, meat and dairy products; and (c) producing
surplus for export. The gross agricultural production is expected to grow at
4.5-5% per annum over the Plan period. By end 1985, output of milk, meat,
vegetables, sugar, and fruits are expected to increase by more than 60% above
1980 levels.
1.9      Plan objectives will be achieved by: (a) more rational use of land,
particularly irrigated land; (b) land reclamation works adding irrigation of
600,000 ha, drainage of 940,000 ha, and soil erosion control works on 950,000
ha; (c) rationalizing fertilizer application by basing it on soil analysis and
increasing fertilizer availability per arable ha to 280 kg by 1985 compared to
113 kg in 1980; (d) providing 290,000 tons of pesticides; (e) mechanization of
all farm operations by supplying 86,000 tractors, 15,800 self-propelled
combine-harvesters and other farm equipment; (f) increasing fodder production;
and (g) improving animal breeding and husbandry practices. Among the policy
initiatives, the Government plans to enhance the role played by Agroindustrial
Councils which are the centers for the management of the entire agricultural
activity as well as for the economic and social development of the communes
within their respective territories, for solving their main political,
economic and social problems. For the first time, the Government has directed



-4-
MAFI and the judet Peoples Council to support the individual farmers by making
available improved seeds and seedlings, improved sires, technical assistance
and guidance so that they can maximize vegetable and animal outputs. Total
plan outlay would be split approximately as follows: crops (orchards and vine-
yards) 8%; livestock 30%, mechanization 29%, land reclamation 14%; agro-
industries 17% and others 2%. Compared to the previous plan, the proportion
allocated to farm mechanization has been substantially increased while
allocations for crop, livestock and agroindustry production have remained
virtually unchanged, allocation for land reclamation has been reduced by about
13%, and no new schemes for irrigation are proposed.
1.10     The average annual agricultural growth rate of 4.5-5% for the 1981-85
Plan, which is roughly half the rate planned under the previous Plan, appears
to be realistic given that the actual growth rate achieved under the previous
Plan was 6% per annum. However, production targets for major crops and live-
stock products, when viewed against actual achievements in 1978-80, imply
large production gains in many cases over 50%. These targets would be
difficult to achieve unless all Plan years turn out to be exceptionally good
years. The Plan foresees a two and a half times increase in fertilizer
availability per hectare, which, if realized, would successfully overcome the
present fertilizer constraint. The new Plan's emphasis on farm mechanization
and storage facilities is appropriate in view of production losses, but not
enough; additional investments are feasible and desirable. The Plan also does
not contain policy initiatives which would address incentive packages for
on-farm labor and management in order to improve output quality and encourage
higher productivity. The Government's initiative in extending help to the
individual sector is welcome, given its importance in agricultural output
(para 1.5). It remains to be seen how far the Government will go in
supporting and preferably in expanding the role of the CAP members as well as
individual household producers and farmers. The attainment of plan targets
will depend on whether the Government can deliver its promised inputs and
support to this sector.
C. Bank Contributions for the Agricultural Sector
Bank Lending Strategy
1.11     The Bank's lending strategy is based on the findings of various
reports, including the agricultural sector survey of October 1976 (No.
953a-RO), the basic economic report of March 1978 (No. 1601-RO) and a number
of recent appraisal reports. A cattle and sheep subsector survey was carried
out during 1979 and its report is being finalized. Beyond the provision of
foreign exchange, the main objectives of Bank lending remain to assist the
Government in addressing the problems of production instability and low
productivity. In addition, in appropriate cases, foreign exchange earnings or
savings are an objective.
1.12     Up to now, Bank's total lending to Romania amounts to US$1,987.6
million for 31 projects. Of the 31 loans already approved, 15 totalling
US$976.5 million have been in agriculture (List at Table T-1). The



- 5 -
agricultural projects are progressing satisfactorily with no major problems.
The first irrigation project, Giurgiu-Razmiresti (Loan 1082-RO) has been
satisfactorily completed with cost under-run and yields higher than the
appraisal estimate. The Project Audit Report by the Operation Evaluation
Department was circulated to the Executive Directors in February 1981. The
Report commended the efficient implementation of the project and noted that
full Government commitment was a decisive factor in timely completion. It
also suggested that the cost underruns were attributable to the system of
controlled prices and a cost equalization scheme which compensates for
inflated costs of imports. The Sadova Corabia project (Loan 1083-RO) has also
been completed; a Project Completion Report is under preparation by the
Borrower.
1.13      With increasing experience in the agricultural sector and a greatly
improved relationship with the Romanian authorities, the Bank has made efforts
to introduce technological improvements in Romanian agriculture. Thus,
technical improvements in project concept and design have been attained in a
number of fields, including irrigation, livestock production and horti-
culture. Additionally, BAFI has adopted the Bank methodology in its economic
evaluation of subprojects. Suggestions given by Bank staff have also led to
important changes in project design, for example, inclusion of private plots
of members of cooperatives as well as individual producers in irrigation
projects, and subloans to the individual sector, namely for livestock
production. The Bank's emphasis on individual sector development and the
important role it could play in achieving Romania's food production objectives
may have influenced the Government's decision to actively support this sector
(para 1.10).
II. The Project Area
A. Sectoral Context
2.1       The Moldova project area makes an important contribution to Romanian
agriculture. In 1979, the project area accounted for 14.2% of Romania's
arable land, 9.2% of orchards, 27% of vineyards, 13.7% of pastures, 16% of
cattle, 9.6% of pigs and 17% of sheep, and contributed 12.4% of Romania's
grains, 16% of sugarbeets, 16% of potatoes, 15% of vegetables, 15.7% of
fruits, 29% of grapes, 14% of meat , 16.6% of milk and 14% of processed food
products. In view of its significant potential for increased agricultural
production, the 1981-85 Plan expects from the project area one of the highest
planned increases in agricultural output per agricultural worker in Romania as
well as substantial increase in agricultural production per hectare. As a
result, the gross agricultural production in the project area is expected to
grow faster than the increase planned for Romania as a whole, and the project
area's contribution to gross agricultural production in Romania would increase
from 13.6% in 1980 to 14.8% in 1985. The proposed project, which is part of
Romania's Five Year Plan for 1981-85, would cover about 17% of total Plan
investments in agriculture and agroindustries in the project area.



- 6 -
B. Description of Project Area
2.2      The project area covers about 33,000 km2 or 14% of the total area
of Romania. Mean air temperatures are around 80C but vary from -7°C in
January to 220C in July.  Annual rainfall varies between 450 and 1,000 mm
but is poorly distributed as most of the precipitation occurs in late autumn,
winter and early spring.  Of the total project area, 2.07 m ha, or 62.6% is
agricultural land, 28% is forests, 1.8% are lakes and ponds and 7.6% consist
of settlements, roads and other areas.  Agricultural land use comprises 67.6%
annual crops, 26.7% pastures and meadows, 4% vineyards and 1.7% orchards.
2.3      Total population of the project area in 1979 was 3.3 m people or 15%
of Romania's total population. About 63% of this population live in rural
areas compared to 51% in Romania as a whole. Agriculture in the project area
employed 671,000 persons in 1978 (20% of Romania's figure), including 87,200
individual farmers. The consumption and production levels in the project
area, measured by retail sales per capita as well as gross agricultural
production per capita, average only about 75% of comparable Romanian levels
indicating that the project area is one of the less developed areas of the
country.
2.04     The shares of State, CAPs, and individual sectors in the project
area's resources and outputs are shown in the table below. While CAPs are the
main producers of grains and sugarbeets, the individual sector produces half
the livestock, potatoes, and vegetables in the project area, whereas the State
sector is less important.



- 7 -
Structure and Ownership of Agricultural Resources
and Output in the Project Area, 1979
Share by Ownership
Total in Project Project Area
Area           Share In                State        Individual
Resources         Units   Quantity    Romania          Total  Units CAPs   Sector /a
Arable Land       000 ha   1,399           14.2         100      11   86         3
Pastures and
Meadows         000 ha       558         13.7         100      45   41       14
Vineyards         000 ha        84         27.1          100     16   81         3
Orchards          000 ha        32          9.2         100      26   70         4
Livestock /b      000 head 4,621           14.0          100     17   36       44
Poultry           000 head 13,111          13.7         100      39   12       49
Output
Grains            000 T    2,632           12.4         100      11   72         7
Sugarbeet         000 T    1,167           16.0         100      0.1  99.9       -
Potatoes          000 T        706         16.0         100       8   39        53
Vegetables        000 T        356         15.0         100       2   46       52
Fruits            000 T        164         15.7         n.a.   n.a. n.a.    n.a.
Grapes            000 T        384         29.0         n.a.   n.a. n.a.    n.a.
Meat              000 T lw   339           14.0         100      23   24        53
Milk              000 hl   8,987           16.6          100     15   28        57
Wool              T         4,796          13.3         100      21   34       45
Eggs              M pieces   908           13.7         100      24   11       65
/a  Including CA:P members and Individual Producers
/b Cattle, sheep and pigs
n.a. = not available
C. Agriculture and its Development Potential
Crop Production
2.5      About 67% of arable land in the project area is under cereal crops,
mainly maize and wheat. However, the average yield per hectare of maize and
wheat respectively is 10 and 14% below the average for Romania. The low
productivity is, in part, due to lower fertilization level in the project
area as compared to Romania as a whole as well as to inadequate farm
mechanization particularly for harvesting.  For example, over half the
harvesting of sugarbeet, vegetables and maize in the project area is done
manually. In the 1981-85 plan, fertilizer application per hectare is
planned to be almost tripled and the crop output would increase by 50% to
60%. In the large scale production system in Romania, planned increases in
crop output can not be achieved without increasing the availability of farm
machinery in the project area.



-8-
Livestock Production
2.6      In 1979 there were about 1 m cattle, I m pigs, 2.6 m sheep and 13 m
poultry in the project area, equal to respectively 16%, 10%, 17% and 13% of
corresponding country figures. The project area has excellent potential for
livestock production as it has about 23.5% of the country's pastures and
meadows. During the 1981-85 Plan period, livestock production in the project
area is expected to increase by 60% over 1979 production levels. The planned
increases in livestock in the project area are likely to remain below its
potential since the plan contains no significant strategy to assist the
individual sector, which accounts for more than half of the livestock
production in the project area (para 1.7).
Soil Erosion
2.7      Soil erosion is a major problem in the project area; nearly 1.2 m ha
or 58% of the total agricultural area is vulnerable to water erosion as ground
slopes are steeper than 8%. In some areas, soil erosion has been measured as
60-100 tons per ha per year. It is necessary to take effective measures to
save the vulnerable areas from further degradation and to create conditions
for mechanization and intensification of agriculture. Soil erosion protection
works have been going on in the project area over the last 15 years and a
total of 0.5 m ha or 41% of vulnerable areas have been protected. By end
1985, a further 0.15 m ha are planned to be protected.
Orchards and Vineyards
2.8      Fruit production in the project area is of relatively minor
importance; however, it is one of the most important viticulture areas of
Romania, containing 27% of Romania's vineyards and producing 29% of total
grapes (para 2.1). About 81% of the vineyards are owned by the CAPs. Average
grape yields at 5-6 tons per ha in Romania as well as in the project area is
low, compared to yields obtainedin other grape producing countries. Reasons
for low yields are older vineyards, relatively low yielding varieties,
shortage of inputs, low vines -- often without support stakes and trellises,
and densely planted vines which hamper effective use of farming equipment.
There is considerable room for increasing the productivity of vineyards by
planting higher yielding varieties of better quality and improving cultural
practices.
Agroindustries
2.9      The project area accounts for 14% of Romania's total processed food
production and its agroindustries contribute about 21% of the area's
industrial production and employ 26,770 persons. Project area agroindustries
include 6 slaughterhouses, 17 wheat flour mills, 8 maize milling units, 6 meat
processing facilities, 28 bakeries, 4 sugar factories, 18 dairies, I vegetable
and fruit canning plant, 3 breweries, and 3 oil factories. The processing
capacities need to be expanded further in order to process the incremental
production in the project area expected during the plan period 1981-85.
Accordingly, about 15% of the plan outlay for agricultural development in the
project area would be allocated for investment in agroindustries.



-9-
Farim Machinery Services
2.J0     The Stations for Agricultural Mechanization (SMAs) were given the
ownership of all farm machinery in 1979 and charged with the responsibility to
provide farm machinery services to all farms in accordance with their needs.
Prior to 1979, the farm machinery was owned by CAPs and IASs. The objective
of pooling all machinery at SMAs is to obtain maximum possible use of farm
equipment. In the project area, there are 97 SMAs, each with a satelite
service center at the farm level with 4 or 5 working teams assigned to each
center. Each working team, equipped with 5 to 10 tractors, has the
responsibility of providing farm machinery services for either 120 ha vine-
yard, 200 ha orchard, or 350-600 ha of crop land belonging to an IAS or CAP.
Each SMA serves 4-8 CAPs and 0-2 IASs. Working teams perform operations on
their assigned areas. Movements of equipment from an area of surplus capacity
to an area of short capacity during critical periods is done by SMA management
in consultation with the respective management of individual IASs or CAPs.
SMA operations appear to be proceeding satisfactorily and no major problems
are reported.
2.11     The repair and maintenance of farm equipment and scheduling and
financing of machinery replacements and additions is the responsibility of
D.SMA. Repair centers are attached '. SMAs and many specialize in one type of
equipment such as 65 h.p. wheel tractors, combine-harvesters or forage
choppers, while others do only repair and overhaul of engines, fuel pumps,
injectors or transmissions. Norms have been set up for complete recon-
ditioning of equipment. As a result, expected equipment life in Romania is
far beyond what is normally expected in Western developed countries.
Equipment repair facilities are satisfactory.
2.12     The level of farm mechanization in the project area is low.  While
tillage operations are fully mechanized, cultivation, harvest and transport
operations are only partially mechanized and result in significant production
losses in many ways. Delayed and untimely weed control via inter-row
cultivation results in large amounts of manual labor to salvage the crop and
weeds competing with crops for nutrients and moisture, causing large yield
losses. By one estimate, the weeds in maize in Romania utilize as much
fertilizer and moisture as the maize crop itself. Mechanized weed control is
thus extremely important in Romania where herbicides are in very scarce supply
as most must be imported. Crop losses due to delays at harvest are estimated
at between 5-20% depending on the particular year. Only 50% of maize
harvesting is mechanized, the rest being harvested manually at a time when
labor is needed for the fruit, potatoe, sugarbeet and tomatoe harvest.
Alfalfa harvesting too is harvested 50% by hand scythe. Timing of alfalfa
cutting is critical and one cutting lost can mean one and a half to two tons
of hay per ha reduction in yield. During the post harvest period in the
autumn, one of the biggest contributors to losses of harvested crops is the
lack of transport facilities.



- 10 -
2.13     There is an urgent need for investment in farm machinery in the
project area in view of: (a) current production losses due to low level of
mechanization; and (b) the fact that planned increases in agricultural
production in the project area cannot be achieved without additional farm
machinery.  Therefore, under the 1981-85 Plan, about Lei 5,853 m (US$390 m)
would be invested in the project area to increase the level of farm
mechanization over a five year period.  While some of the farm machinery would
be purchased by IASs and CAPs, the bulk of the investment would be in SMAs in
the project area. The SMA objectives under the Plan are to increase the level
of farm mechanization so as to mechanize all operations except vegetable,
grape and fruit harvesting, which would be only partially mechanized. In
addition to the above main objectives, other goals are to reduce the overall
harvest period of wheat, reduce fuel consumption, combine equipment for one
pass operation where possible, improve availability of equipment where
timeliness is critical and reduce overhead costs through consolidation of some
SMAs.
2.14     A major effort to reduce energy use in agriculture is headed up by
MAFI in cooperation with the Design and Research Institute for Agricultural
Mechanization (DRIAM), agricultural research stations and SMAs. The
initiatives being explored or implemented include. (a) fitting of 2 to 5
farming implements behind one tractor to reduce the number of tractor passes
required; (b) fitting of wider farm implements to increase coverage achieved
with each pass; (c) the use of one pass pasture planting system; (d) reduction
in number of operations such as harrowings; (e) matching the right size
tractor to a given operation; (f) checking of fuel pumps and injectors on
engines suspected of excessive fuel comsumption; and (g) reduction of
equipment travel time by leaving it at the work site at night. Work is
continuing at the research station level on minimum tillage. Items (a) and
(c) are a result of this effort so far. Such energy saving measures would be
tested and introduced in the project area.
Support Services
2.15     The support services to all agriculture production organizations in
the project area are provided by the MAFI Directorate at the judet level, the
BAFI branch in each district, the applied research and extension institutes in
the project area and by the SMAs existing in the project area. MAFI 's main
role is to help in preparing the plans for each production organization,
establishing the indicators and supervising the way the plan is achieved. It
also provides support services through the veterinary inspectorate, research
stations, and the inspectorate for seed control. The role of the BAFI branch
is basically to provide the necessary finance for the agricultural production
by the organizations in the project area and to keep control of their
financial performance. In the project area there are located a livestock
research station, a crop and livestock research station, a central research
station for soil erosion control works, and a vegetable, 3 vineyard, and 3
orchard research and production stations. These stations issue the technical
and economic guidelines for their respective sectors and carry out applied
research, the results of which are communicated to the production
organizations.



- 11 -
Future Plans and Development Strategy in the Project Area
2.16     During the 1981-85 plat, the project area, relative to Romania, is
expected to achieve high rates of growth: 55% increase in gross agricultural
production compared to 43% increase for Romania. Over the five year period,
output of meat and milk would increase by 60% over actual in 1979, wheat and
sugarbeet by 80%, and maize and sunflower by 22% (Table T-2). These increases
would be achieved by; (a) increasing availability of fertilizers three-fold
from 98 kg of active substance per arable hectare in 1980 to about 300 kg in
1985; (b) increased investment for farm mechanization; (c) extending soil
erosion control measures to an additional 0.15 m ha; and (d) almost doubling
the investment in livestock production compared to the previous plan. A total
of Lei 25,067 million would be invested in the project area, which represents
about 14% of total Plan outlay for Romania in the agriculture sector
(Table T-3). The planned investments in the project area would be allocated
as follows; 23% for mechanization, 29% for livestock, 17% for agroindustries,
19% for land reclamation, including soil erosion control works, 10% for crops
(mainly vineyards), and 2% others.
2.17     The emphasis on farm mechanization and livestock production is
basically sound in view of the project area's low level of farm mechanization
and its suitability and considerable potential for livestock production (para
2.12). However, the increase in livestock production is going to remain much
below the project area's potential since the Plan does not envisage any major
measures in increasing productivity of the individual sector which presently
produces about half of all livestock products. Nevertheless, the basic
strategy for development of the project area appears sound and the all-over
mix of investment allocations among the subsectors is consistent with the
project areas development potential.
III. The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (The Borrower)
3.1      The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) is the Government
specialized agency for financing of investments in agriculture. As such, BAFI
has been the Borrower for all previous 15 Bank loans for agricultural projects
in Romania (Table T-1).
A. Structure of Investment Planning and Banking in Romania
3.2      All investment projects in Romania are implemented in accordance with
the Five Year and Annual Plans and the Law on Investments of 1980. Within the
overall investment priorities established nationally, the investors are
required to prepare Technical Economic Substantiation Memoranda (TESMs) to
justify specific investments. On the basis of TESMs, approved by the
respective ministry or council of ministers, a Five Year Investment Plan is
drawn up in which the projects are listed, which are subsequently put into the
Annual Plan with the name of the investor. All investments in the Annual Plan
are included on basis of an Order. The Order specifies the standard
construction design, the capacity of the investment, the requirements of



- 12 -
inputs and materials, the length of time and stages of execution, and the
manner in which raw materials and energy will be secured. Implementation of
investments incluoted in the Annual Plan is done on the basis of an Execution
Blueprint. The Execution Blueprint is the documentation that gives the
detailed engineering and design of facilities. It is usually drafted by
design institutes and approved by the investor. The preparation and approval
of TESMs, Order and Execution Blueprints are done in accordance with
provisions of the Law on Investments.
3.03     Within the above investment planning frameworks banks are responsible
for endorsing the TESM's, Orders, and Execution Blueprints for all investment
projects. Prior to giving their endorsement for an Order and the Execution
hlueprint, the banks carry out appraisal of investment projects.  Banks give
endorsement and approve loans only if the following conditions are fulfilled;
(a) existing capacities are fully used; (b) sales of incremental production
are assured; (c) investment is included in the Plan; (d) all required invest-
ment documentation has been completed; (e) financial resources for carrying
out investment are included in the annual Plan; (f) works or expenditures to
be financed are included in the approved investment documentation; (g)
recovery of loan and investment expenditures are shown on the basis of
projected cash flow and production; and (h) in the case of cooperatives and
individuals, availability of 30% of own investment funds. The banks have the
right to refuse or recall loans unlder the following curcumstances: (i) in
cases where any or all of the conditions for granting the loans are not ful-
tilled; (ii) utilization of funds for purposes other than those agreed; (iii)
inadequate management of enterprise which threatens repayment; (iv) refusal by
enterprise to satisfactorily address the deficiencies pointed out by the
banks; and (v) any other circumstance which may jeopardize repayment of the
loan.  During the implemientation of the investment, the banks exercise close
supervision on the physical progress and financial transactions.
3.4      The banks in Romania are State-owned and each bank fulfills definite
tasks. There is neither competition nor overlapping of authority among the
banks.  Romania's banking system comprises the following banks:
(a) The National Bank (NB) sets guidelines for credit policy and
grants short-term production credit to industry and commerce;
(b) The Investment Bank (IB) grants long-term investment credit to
industry and commerce;
(c) The Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI) finances
production and investment in agriculture and agroindustries;
(d) The Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade (RBFT) deals with foreign
exchange operations;
(e) The Insurance Administration (IA) deals in all types of
insurance for State and Cooperative entities as well as private
individuals;
(f) The Saving Bank (SB) accepts savings and grants consumer credit
for the purchase of private homes; and
(g) The Central Commission of Credit Cooperatives (CRC) a depart-
ment within the Central Union of Consumption Cooperatives
(Centrocoop), acts through its rural branches as an agencv for
SB and BAFI and also carries out savings and lending operations
with the funds of its member-owners.



- 13 -
B. Role and Structure of BAFI
3.5      In 1968, Decree 55 established BAFI as a separate state entity to
finance and supervise production and investment in agriculture and agro-
industries. In terms of its charter, BAFI is not allowed to accept deposits
from individuals. The principle tasks and responsibilities of BAFI are as
follows: (a) to appraise and endorse the technical economic documentation of
investment projects; (b) to grant short and medium term loans for financing
investments in agriculture and agroindustries;  (c) to exert control during
implementation over the utilization of material and financial resources
allotted to investment projects; (d) to maintain deposit and checking accounts
for CAPs and State farms; and (e) to cooperate with foreign institutions and
international organizations having similar tasks.
3.6      BAFI is managed by an Administrative Council, an Executive Bureau and
its President.  The Administrative Council is the policy making body of BAFI.
It is composed of the President, two Vice Presidents, the Directors of BAFI,
some BAFI branch representatives, economic and agricultural experts, and a
delegate designated by the general trade union of Romania. The Council meets
at least once each quarter. The Executive Bureau is a decision making body
and meets on a weekly basis.  Its seven members are the President, two Vice
Presidents, three BAFI Department Directors, and the representative of the
trade union. The President, who is the chief executive officer, is appointed
by State decree and implements the decisions of the Administrative Council and
the Executive Bureau.
3.7      BAFI is organized in 6 departments at headquarters and has 41
branches - one in each of the districts of Romania - as well as 92 sub-branch
offices. The 6 departments deal with financing of: (a) State farms; (b) food
and agroindustries; (c) CAPs; (d) coordinating, planning and external
relations; (e) accounting and auditing; and (f) economic matters, admin-
istration, legal affairs and personnel.  The branches and sub-branches are
responsible for the agricultural sector activities in their respective areas.
There is no geographical overlapping. In the outlying villages, BAFI operates
through 116 credit cooperatives which effect payments, disbursements and
collections as BAFI's agents. The credit cooperatives are awarded a
commission by BAFI of 0.41% of transactions for their services.
3.8      As of May 1981, there were 200 people employed at BAFI's head office
in Bucharest, and 3,130 in its field offices, of which 71 were engineers, 18
lawyers, 684 university graduates, 2,269 specialists with secondary school
training -- mostly in banking and accounting --, and 89 auxilliary personnel.
To train its staff, BAFI offers courses in agriculture, project planning and
evaluation, credit operations, recovery of loans, and marketing. BAFI's staff
an1d organizational structure appear to be well established, well qualified and
effective.



- 14 -
C. Lending Policies and Procedures
3.9      BAFI's operations are carried out within the framework of a ShortTerm
Financing Plan (STFP) and a Medium-Term Financing Plan (MTFP). The STFP is
approved each quarter by the Council of Ministers and shows the short-term
resources to be lent by BAFI to each enterprise. BAFI rigidly enforces the
Plan, and expenditures are not allowed to exceed the Plan provisions. The
MTFP shows the mediumand long-term lending program of BAFI and is also
approved by the Council of Ministers. The MTFP is made in sufficiently
general terms to allow BAFI to do meaningful appraisals and, if an investment
project is found unacceptable, to substitute it by another one. This planning
system seems to work well. In case additional funds are needed over and above
Plan allocations, BAFI has to get them from the National Bank.
3.10     BAFI appraises all technical and economic documentation for an
investment prior to approving the loan. In addition to a financial review of
investment proposals, the engineering group of BAFI subject them to thorough
scrutiny. BAFI can require that the proposal be redesigned to reduce
investment costs and/or improve efficiency. All loans for individual farmers
and cooperative members are approved by branch directors of BAFI, who also
approve all investments less than Lei 10 m.  Investments between Lei 10-30 m
for CAPs are approved by the Department Director of BAFI, and by the Branch
Manager for IASs. Investments between Lei 30-70 m are approved by the Vice
President of BAFI and all investments above Lei 70 m have to be approved by
the Council of Ministers. The loans are mainly secured by arrangements with
borrowers whereby they commit all present and future income to debt service.
Repayment risk is extremely low within the Romanian political economic
framework. To date, BAFI has reported no loan losses. In the event a
borrower is in arrears on debt servicing, no new investment expenditures are
approved until the accounts are brought up to date and regularized. In
addition, a special committee is set up to investigate and report on reasons
for default, assess prospects for recovery and make recommendations. These
recommendations may include change in manager, organizational changes, other
specific measures, and provision of more money. Additional funds are provided
by BAFI only on guarantee of higher than enterprise level officials and
against a specific program for solving the unit's problems. BAFI appraisal
procedures are satisfactory.
3.11     Supervision of loans is done by each branch, sub-branch and
operational head office department. BAFI exercises a strict control over both
annual production activities and the disbursements. BAFI inspectors visit
projects at least quarterly and prepare supervision reports. The financial
situation of borrowers is examined monthly and reported to the head office.
The disbursements are made against documentary evidence and the verification
of works done is performed by field visits at least once a quarter. The
disbursement procedures and the control procedures followed by BAFI are
satisfactory and ensure that the funds are disbursed for approved purposes
only, and are used for the purposes for which they are granted.



- 15 -
3.12     BAFI follows a double entry book keeping system.  Its accounts are
maintained on computers and supplemented by manual operations. The accounts
are distinguished according to the sources of funds and this system enables it
to comply with the Bank requirement that separately identifiable accounts
should be maintained for investments financed in a project. Audit of BAFI
accounts is carried out by a commission appointed by the Ministry of Finance.
In addition to normal audit, a more extensive audit is carried out for World
Bank financed projects in order to comply with the Bank's auditing require-
ments. In the more extensive audit, the audit team from the Ministry of
Finance does spot checking of selected branches and a few selected
cooperatives and state farms financed by BAFI under World Bank financed
projects. The audit focuses on compliance with procedures as well as physical
progress. The audit personnel spot check the documentation maintained by BAFI
branches and review the disbursement documentation to verify accuracy of
Statements of Expenditures. The auditor's report includes an opinion on
whether proceeds of World Bank loans withdrawn on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they were provided. The
audit report is submitted to the Deputy Minister for Finance and instructions
are issued for resolving any audit objections. The audit report is also
submitted to the World Bank. Audit arrangements described above are
considered satisfactory.
D. Lending Terms and Operations
3.13     Grace periods, repayment periods and the interest rate vary according
to the purpose of the loan and the type of subborrower. In the case of CAPs,
BAFI finances up to 70% of the total cost of a given investment. The maximum
grace periods vary from I to 7 years and the maximum repayment period varies
from 8 to 25 years depending on type of investment. The interest rate charged
is 3% per annum and the loan is paid off in equal annual installments. In the
case of IASs, BAFI finances up to 100% of the investment cost. The maximum
repayment terms and grace periods are similar to those for cooperatives,
however the interest rate charged is 2% per annum during the construction
period and 4% per annum thereafter. Individual producers may borrow up to 70%
of the value of investment items. Maximum repayment periods are five years
with no grace period and the interest rate is at 3% per annum. BAFI and the
Central Commission of Credit Cooperatives (CRC) maintain a protocol by which
BAFI lending to individual producers is channelled through the CRC system.
BAFI pays to the credit cooperatives a commission of 0.41% of the total value
of loans processed on behalf of BAFI. In order to receive loans from BAFI,
the individuals must contact a credit cooperative and present proof that they
have a contract with a relevant socialist enterprise for the marketing of
their produce. The system for lending to individuals is simple and efficient
although there is hardly any loan supervision.
3.14     Interest rates on investment subloans range from 2-4% per annum.  As
a result of central controls over domestic prices, Romania achieved a domestic
inflation rate of about 1% a year during 1978-80. The inflation during
1980-85 is projected to be about 2.5% per annum.  BAFI's on-lending



- 16 -
interest rates are real and positive and are expected to remain so, although
somewhat less positive than in the past. It should, however, be noted that
under the centrally planned economic system in Romania, interest rates play no
role in resource allocation as this is achieved by the planning mechanism as
well as the Law on Investments. The current interest rates on BAFI loans are
considered adequate relative to BAFI's administrative and financial costs.
3.15      The structure of BAFI lending has remained relatively constant with
about 76% being short-term loans and the balance long-term loans. Over the
1975-79 period, total disbursements grew at a compound rate of about 11% per
annum with investment financing showing the fastest growth rate and accounting
for 24% of total BAFI disbursements in 1979. BAFI's lending to the individual
sector has also been growing. It was about Lei 300 m in 1980, and by 1985 it
is expected to reach Lei 445 m.
E. Financial Situation and Performance
3.16      The various sources of BAFI's funds are its statutory capital,
surplus reserves, funds from State budget, IBRD borrowings, short-term
borrowings from the National Bank, and deposits. In 1980 there was a
significant change in BAFI's sources of funds.  The funds from the State
budget were discontinued and the overdraft from the National Bank was
increased. This change was in line with the general economic reforms in the
country. Short-term borrowings from the National Bank is the most important
source of BAFI funds, constituting over 85% of its resources (Table T-4).
BAFI pays 1.5% annual interest on both National Bank borrowings and deposit
accounts. The relative importance of the National Bank overdraft is expected
to increase over the next few years. The mediumand long-term loans form 39.5%
of BAFI's assets and are mainly financed from external credits and borrowings
from the National Bank. BAFI's external borrowings mainly consist of World
Bank loans, which finance about 10% of BAFI's assets, and are expected to
maintain this level over the next five years.
3.17      BAFI's operating performance can be judged from the growth of its
asset portfolio and the degree to which it has succeeded in controlling the
cost of its operations. During the period 1976-80 total assets grew by about
56%. During the same period, BAFI's administrative expenses averaged about
0.18% of total assets. During the next Plan (1981-85) BAFI's assets are
projected to grow by about 20%, and administrative expenses are projected to
be about 0.23% of total assets. The relatively slower growth of assets
reflects the Government policy that an increasingly larger share of
investments should be financed out of enterprise savings. The increase in
administrative expenses is anticipated due to increased BAFT supervision of
loans.



- 17 -
3.18      BAFI's operation of results can be seen in Tables T-5 to T-7.  Net
income during the period 1976-80 fluctuated, but declined from 3.08% of assets
in 1976 to 2.76% of assets in 1980. It is further expected to decline to
2.45% of BAFI's average assets in 1985. This decline is attributable to an
increase in BAFI's average cost of non-equity financing (from the National
Bank and IBRD) by about 35% over the period 1980-85. As a result,
yield-financing spread of BAFI would decrease from 1.28% in 1980 to 0.45% in
1985. However, even the reduced spread would more than cover BAFI's projected
administrative costs at 0.23%. BAFI's financial condition would, thus,
continue to be satisfactory.
IV. The Project
A. Project Objectives
4.1       The project is part of an overall integrated Plan covering the period
1981-85 to develop the agricultural sector of the Moldova region, one of the
less developed areas of Romania. This Plan contemplates financing of
investments which have been selected to strengthen and increase the resource
base to provide the basis for achieving substantial increases in agricultural
production in the project area. These investments would help achieve the
Plan's broader objective to increase agricultural productivity and production
and, hence, to increase the economic betterment of the area's population and
expand the food supply for domestic consumption. The overall 1981-85
investment Plan for agriculture in the project area is expected to cost about
Lei 25,067 m (US$1,671 m), of which the proposed project would cover about 17%.
B. Project Description
4.2       The project would finance a part of the investments under the overall
integrated development Plan for the project area and would consist of the
following 7 components; (a) farm mechanization; (b) agroindustries; (c) soil
erosion control works; (d) credit to individual producers; (e) pasture
improvement; (f) dairy farms; and (g) vineyards. Part of investments under
the overall development Plan for the project area would be included under the
ongoing Bank financed nationwide Livestock and Orchard projects. These
investments have been identified and would not be financed under the proposed
new project. The following table shows total investments under the overall
development Plan for the project area and the amounts of investments to be
implemented under the project;



- 18 -
Investments            Overall Agricultural Develop Under the    % of Total
ment Plan for Project Area       Project    Plan Outlay
- - - - - - - Lei Million - - - - - - -
Total Investment                   25,067                 4,416           17
of which:
Farm Mechanization (SMAs)           3,763                 2,065           55
Transportation Equipment            1,035                    -            -
Other Equipment & Machinery /a    1,055                       -           -
Agroindustries                      4,201                   803           19
Livestock                           7,358                   421 /b         6
Crops (Orchards, Vineyards etc.)  2,447                      106           4
Land Reclamation                    4,668                    707          15
Others                                540                    -
Loans to Individuals /c                -                    314
/a   Includes mainly construction equipment and farm equipment for IAS and CAPs
/b   Including pasture improvement
/c   No amount shown for individuals in Plan
The project components to be financed under the project are described below.,
Farm Mechanization
4.3      Farm mechanization is the top priority need for the project area, to
plant and harvest 50-60% crop production increases planned for the project
area (para 2.5) as well as in view of: (a) shortages of labor during
harvesting seasons; (b) a limited number of rain-free harvest days, which in
absence of sufficient machinery for harvesting causes physical and qualitative
losses of produce. The prevailing large-scale agricultural production system
in Romania, as well as the project area's conditions are suitable for farm
mechanization. Under the project, about 6,500 tractors, ranging from 45 HP to
180 HP and about 1,500 harvesters and combine-harvesters, together with other
equipment, including trailers for transport, would be financed over the three
year period 1982-84. Most of the investment in farm mechanization under the
project is expected to benefit CAPs which, at present, have inadequate
mechanization and low productivity.
Agroindustries
4.4      Agroindustry investments under the project would comprise: (a) a
sugar mill with a capacity of 2,000 tons of sugarbeet per 24 hours; (b) a
flour mill with a capacity of 25 tons of wheat or 25 tons of corn per 24
hours; (c) a cold store with a capacity of 3,000 tons, for storing cheese,
butter and ice cream; (d) two grain silos, each with a capacity between 22,000
to 34,000 tons, for storing maize, wheat and barley; and (e) three flat grain
stores with a total capacity 25,000 tons. The existing agroindustrial
capacities in the project area (para 2.9) are not sufficient for processing



- 19 -
the projected production increases of cereals, milk and sugarbeet. The
investment law in Romania explicitly states that additional investments in
processing capacities can be approved only if the existing capacities are
fully utilized.  Thus, on the basis of projected production increases in the
project area, all the facilities to be constructed under the project would be
fully justified and utilized. On average, about 54% of the investments in all
agroindustries would be for buildings and constructions, 32% for equipment and
the balance for technical services and other costs. Construction of the
facilities would vary from 1-3 years, and normal operations would begin in the
year following completion.
Soil Erosion Protection Component
4.5       Under the project, funds will be provided for extending soil erosion
protection to about 142,000 ha. The main source of soil erosion is water
flowing as a sheet over the land and concentrated flows in gulleys. The
protection measures against sheet erosion include terraces, banquet terraces
and grassland buffer strips along the contours. Gulley erosion is protected
by check structures to reduce flow velocity. Terraces and banquet terraces
are 10 to 15 meters wide, the latter having natural slope land in between two
terraces. Grassed buffer strips are 2 to 4 meters wide on natural slope.
Fifty-three schemes have been identified in the project area; the area under
each scheme varying from 100 ha to 24,430 ha.  These schemes have been
selected on the basis of priority of execution in the area concerned, the
priority being determined on the extent of losses. Eight schemes totalling
45,390 ha shall be started in 1982, 24 schemes totalling 62,105 ha in 1983 and
the balance of 21 schemes, totalling 34,845 ha, in 1984. The implementation
period of the schemes shall vary from two to three years. All the schemes
shall be completed by 1985.  Purchase of maintenance equipment costing Lei
40 m is included under this component to supplement the equipment available
for maintenance. The cost estimates for the schemes have been prepared on the
basis of cost data for the few schemes which have been completed recently. It
is estimated that the average cost for development would be Lei 50,000
(US$3,000) per ha. About 94% of investment costs would be in civil works, and
the remaining 6% in machinery and equipment. It is expected that the full
development production would begin in the third year after protection works
are completed.
Credits to Individual Producers
4.6       In line with experience gained under the Livestock II (Pigs) Project
(Loan 1669-RO), and because of the project area's large pastoral areas --
about 24,000 ha of which are proposed to be improved under the Livestock IV
(Cattle) Project, and 44,000 ha under this project -- the bulk of subloan
demand under this subproject is expected for financing purchase of dairy
heifers and sheep breeding stock only. Thus, the equivalent of about 7,500
dairy farms, each receiving 2 in-calf heifers/young cows at average, and 4,000
sheep operations, each receiving 30 hoggets and 3 rams at average, are
expected to be financed under the project. One-third of total investments is
scheduled to be committed in each of the years 1982, 1983 and 1984 and each of
the six judets would receive funds under this subproject, with the judets
Neamt and Vrancea receiving together as much as 50% of the total funds
earmarked for individual sector development.



- 20 -
4.7      A typical small dairy farm would have 1 ha of meadows and 1 ha of
fodder crops and access to communal State owned pastures during the 6-7 months
vegetation period. Under the subproject, it would receive two Brown Swiss,
Simmenthal, or Holstein/Friesian type in-calf heifers and stabilize its herd
at three cows. All breeding females would be inseminated with semen from
progeny-tested dairy bulls. Individual sheep operations would dispose of 2 ha
of meadows and I ha of fodder crops and also have access to communal grazing
land; and over a 4-year period would expand their ewe herd from 50-80 head.
For that purpose, 30 hoggets, mostly Zigaia and Zurkana and some crossbreds
between these two local breeds and Corriedale, and three improved rams
(usually crossbreds between Zigaia/Zurkana and Corriedale) would be provided
in Project Year 1. Because of the high profitability of dairying and sheep
production under present price/cost conditions, it is expected that farmers
would intensify fodder production and increase feeding of concentrate feed by
about 30% above present levels which, together with improved genetical
potential of the livestock, would increase bio-economic performances
significantly. Thus, annual milk production per cow in milk would increase
from 2,200 liters before development to 2,800 liters at full development
(PY4), liveweight per cull cow from 450 kg to 520 kg, lambing ratios from 100%
to 108%, ewe slaughterweights from 40 kg to 48 kg, annual milk sales per ewe
in milk from 30 to 45 liters, and yearly wool production per ewe from 3 kg to
3.7 kg.
4.8      In line with BAFI lending policy, the only farms to qualify for sub-
loans would be those which: (a) have a marketing contract with CAPs or State
farms to sell their produce; (b) have adequate cattle housing; and (c) are
able to provide the necessary fodder base . The investment costs per farm are
estimated at Lei 20,000 per dairy farm and at Lei 37,500 per sheep farm. The
existing veterinary services in the project area are adequate to provide
animal health services to these individual producers, and social sector
processing and marketing enterprises, with which individual producers would
conclude delivery contracts for part or all of their products, would
participate in project implementation by providing inputs and technical
assistance.
Pasture Improvements
4.9      Under the project, about 44,000 ha of pastures would be improved out
of a total of about 557,700 ha of natural grassland in the project area.
Pasture improvement work in the project area is on-going and a total of about
24,000 ha of pastures in the project area is planned to be improved under the
Bank financed Livestock IV Cattle Project (Loan 1937-RO). Average investment
cost per hectare for pasture improvement under the project is estimated at Lei
5,500 (US$367). However, investment level for each scheme would be determined
by the Pasture Enterprise of each judet with the help of studies and surveys
and are expected to vary significantly from scheme to scheme. The schemes
would range from 100 ha and 400 ha in size and mainly be located in the hilly
areas with up to 800 m elevation. On average about 34% of investment costs
would be spent for land improvement, including land clearing, erosion control
and construction of access roads and watering points, about 11% for land
preparation, 38% for manure, fertilizer and liming and 17% for reseeding and
oversowing. Investment per scheme would be made over a 1-year period with
full development being reached in the third year.



- 21 -
Dairy Farms Modernization
4.10     Under the project, renovation and moderTization of 18 CAP dairy farms
would be carried out. Financing of dairy farm modernization has already been
included in Romania's nationwide Livestock TV Ca--le oroject (7roan 1937-RO)
under which one State and two CAP dairy farms art ex acted to e modernized in
the project area. In line with that project, design concept would be to
convert existing stanchion dairy barns into loose house systems and provide
modern milking parlours and a dairy. Remodelling would increase the stocking
capacity by about 30% of existing cattle barns w *ch have inefficient internal
lay-outs. Storage space for forage and concentrate feed as well as machinery
and equipment for mechanized feeding, and incremental in-calf heifers would
also be provided to efficiently handle a 680 cow herd. Total investment costs
per model have been estimated at about Lei 8 million, excluding heifers
retained. About 78% of the cost would be for buildings and constructions, 10%
for purchasing in-calf heifers, 8% for vehicles and equipment and the
remaining 4% for design and technical supervision. Remodelling would be
phased over a two-year period and full production would be reached in the
fourth year.
Vineyards
4.11     Under the project, finance would be provided for establishment of
about 450 ha of new vineyards and modernization of about 1,200 ha vineyards.
All investments would be undertaken by CAPs of the judets Iasi, Vaslui and
Vrancea. The technology to be used for establishing new, rainfed vineyards
would be similar to those being used in other vine growing areas in the
world. Modernization of vineyards would basically consist of raising vine
stems to about 80 cm, change of scion direction, replanting of empty spots
within rows and replacement of, or addition of, reinforced concrete posts and
support stakes. The proposed investments would increase the productivity and
quality of the grapes. Total investment cost for a new vineyard is estimated
to be Lei 121,000 per ha, and for modernization Lei 35,340 per ha. About 40%
of the investment costs would be in land preparation, and the remaining 60% in
materials and rootstocks. The investment is expected to be made over a 4 year
period for new vineyards and over a 2 year period for modernization of vine-
yards; with full production being reached by PY8 for new vineyards and by PY5
for modernized ones.
C. Cost Estimates
4.12     Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, are
estimated at Lei 4,353.5 m (US$290.2 m), of which Lei 1,464.6 (US$97.6 m) or
33% of the total project cost would be the foreign exchange component. The
project cost includes US$0.7 m in taxes and import duties on items expected to
be imported directly under the project. The unit costs are based on estimates
obtained in June 1981 from the design institutes in Romania and have been
updated to reflect the costs that would prevail at end 1981. The Romanian
regulations require careful estimation of investment costs and cost overruns
are rare. A physical contingency averaging about 2.4% of base cost, and price
contingencies averaging 6.5% of base cost plus physical contingencies, have



-22 -
been included in the cost estimate /a. Details on the cost estimates are
shown below and explained in Annex 1.
Project Component                 Cost in Lei Million          Cost in US$ Million    FE%
Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
A.  Farm Mechanization       1,098.9    795.6  1,894.5    73.3        53.0    126.3   42
B.  Agroindustries             498.6    230.0    728.6    33.2        15.3      48.5   31
C.  Soil Erosion Control       500.7    117.4    618.1    33.4         7.8      41.2   19
D.  Credit to Individuals    270.0        30.0    300.0    18.0        2.0      20.0   10
E.  Pasture Improvement        166.3      55.4    221.7    11.1        3.7      14.8   25
F.  Dairy Farms                 95.0      36.9    131.9       6.3      2.5       8.8   28
G.  Vineyards                   73.5      22.3      95.8     4.9       1.5       6.4   23
Total Baseline Cost          2,703.0  1,287.6  3,990.6   180.2        85.8    266.0   32
Physical Contingencies
(2.4%)                        74.3      22.7     97.0      5.0       1.5       6.5   23
Price Contingencies (8.3%)   111.6    154.3    265.9         7.4      10.3      17.7   58
Total Project Cost           2,888.9  1,464.6  4,353.5   192.6        97.6    290.2   34
D. Financing
4.13     The proposed Bank loan of US$95 million would finance 97% of the
foreign exchange cost of the project and would be made to BAFI for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. BAFI would on-lend the loan proceeds to the sub-
borrowers in accordance with the terms and procedures described in Chapter V.
The Bank loan would cover about 33% of total project cost. Subborrowers would
contribute about 20% of investments under the vineyards, dairy farms, pasture
improvement, and credit to individual producer components, or about 4% (or
US$11.2 m) of total project cost. The remaining 63% (or US$184 m) of project
cost would be financed by BAFI.
/a Price contingencies have been calculated at the following expected price
increases, expressed in % annual increase:
Foreign Equipment and    Domestic Equipment and Civil
Materials                       Works
1982                   8.5                            2.5
1983                   7.5                            2.5
1984-85                6.0                            2.5



- 23 -
E. Disbursements
4.14     Bank disbursements would extend over an estimated five-year period
and would be made as shown below:
Amount Allocated % of Expenditures
Loan Categories                      to the Category    to be Financed
(1)  Farm Mechanization                     61.0               45
(2)  Sugar Mill                             10.5               25
(3)  Other Agroindustries                    3.0               25
(4)  Soil Erosion Control Works              9.0               20
(5)  Individual Sector                       4.0               20
(6)  Pasture Improvement                     3.5               20
(7)  Dairy Farm Modernization                2.5               25
(8)  Vineyards                               1.5               20
Total                                  95.0
4.15     Disbursement requests for foreign expenditures would be supported by
full documentation. For the local expenditures, as is done in previous Bank
financed loans for agriculture in Romania, the Bank would disburse against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) since these would involve on-lending for
subprojects. BAFI is fully familiar with the SOE procedure and its accounting
and internal control procedures are satisfactory in ensuring that Bank funds
are used for the purposes for which they are granted (para 3.11). The
documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by BAFI and would be
available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
implementation. Assurances on these disbursement procedures were obtained
during negotiations.
4.16     The schedule of disbursement is estimated as follows:
us$ M
Bank FY    FY83        FY84        FY85        FY86        FY87
Annual                    12.0        28.0       32.0        13.0        10.0
Cumulative                12.0       40.0        72.0        85.0        95.0
The schedule of disbursement is based on the Implementation Schedule (Chart
IBRD 23113) and is consistent with the agriculture sector disbursement profile
for previous Bank financed projects in Romania (Annex 1, Table 6).
F. Procurement
4.17     Civil works construction and installation of equipment would be
carried out under contract by Romanian construction enterprises. In Romania,
all civil works are constructed by the Romanian state owned Construction Trust
which has enterprises that are experienced and familiar with local conditions,



- 24 -
methods and regulations. Facilities similar to those proposed under this
project are being constructed according to detailed specifications prepared by
the MAFI Central Design Institute and have proved to-be adequately designed
and satisfactorily constructed.  Equipment and materials estimated to cost
US$95 m would be procured by Romagrimex in accordance with the 'Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits - March 1977'.  Items to be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) are listed in detail
in Annex 1 Table 5. Romanian manufacturers would be allowed a 15% preference
margin or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Romanian
manufacturers are highly competitive and it is anticipated that foreign
suppliers would be awarded contracts for about US$7.0 m for equipment and
chemicals not produced in Romania. Other items to be procured through ICB
(about US$88 m) consist mainly of farm machinery, and are available
domestically. Romania is one of the major exporters of tractors in the world
and current markets include the USA, Eastern European and third world
countries. Current exports average about 40,000 tractors per year. In view
of the pressing need for foreign exchange earnings, Romania has, in the past,
exported tractors without fully meeting the domestic need. Given their
competitive position in the market, it is expected that the Romanian
manufacturers of farm machinery would be likely to be successful in bidding
for most of these items. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
procurement of items specified in Annex 1 Table 5 would be through ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
G. Environment Effects
4.18     Romania now maintains a comprehensive system of standards and
controls to ensure satisfactory waste disposal and a strict system of
penalties is maintained to ensure compliance. Facilities financed under the
project would be constructed and operated in conformity with this
environmental protection code. The facilities would include suitable waste
water and effluent treatment systems. A beneficial effect on environment
would result to the project investments in Soil Erosion Control Measures and
pasture improvements as these investments would not only preserve and improve
currently eroding agricultural and pasture land, but would also reduce
sedimentation entering river channels and reservoirs. As a result of these
measures, flood damage to crops, homes, and machinery would be reduced.
H. Role of Women
4.19     The project has no specific components designed according to
differentials based on sex. Romania has a policy of equal employment
opportunity and equal wages for women. Romania presently encounters
increasing demands on the labor force, particularly in agriculture, which will
continue to increase employment of women in all sectors of the economy. From
the nature of livestock production and agroindustries, it is anticipated that
a somewhat higher percentage of women will be employed in those investments
financed under the project, while a lesser number of women will be employed in
the soil erosion and farm mechanization components of the project.



- 25 -
V. Project Implementation
A. Institutional Arrangements
5.1      BAFI would be the Borrower under guarantee of the Socialist Republic
of Romania. The project would be administered by BAFI through its 6 district
branches. BAFI would be responsible for overall project management and
monitoring. BAFI has been the implementing agency for 7 Bank assisted
agricultural credit projects and 8 irrigation projects, which are being
implemented satisfactorily. Thus, the institution is well experienced in
management of Bank projects. The 6 BAFI branches in the project area would be
responsible for directly supervising the financial and administrative
execution of the subprojects with assistance from District Officers of MAFI,
the area research stations and the food inspection and veterinary services.
The individual subprojects would be implemented by IASs, SMAs, CAPs, communes,
individual farmers and household producers, the Department for Land
Reclamation and the Pasture Enterprises, as discussed below.
5.2      The farm mechanization component would be implemented by 97 SMAs
existing in the project area. These SMAs are well established and are
on-going concerns and no difficulty is expected in their being able to carry
out the investment under the subproject. The machinery and equipment to be
financed would be incorporated into the existing machinery pools of the SMAs.
Costs of operations as well as depreciations would be fully covered by charges
which have been established by law. The operating procedures of the SMAs were
found to be generally satisfactory and their maintenance and repair programs
are extensive and satisfactory (para 2.10). Sufficient trained personnel to
operate the farm machinery and equiment would be available during
implementation of the project, as the SMAs and the judet directorates, as well
as the mechanization trusts of each judet, have extensive programs for
carrying out the training of SMA staff. Assurances were obtained from BAFI
and MAFI that they would make available an adequate number of tractors and
other farm equipment for the purposes of carrying out this component.
5.3      Soil erosion protection measures and schemes in the project area
would be implemented by the Directorate for Exploitation of Land Reclamation
Works (DELIF). The design and engineering would be done by the Institute for
Land Reclamation and Design (ISPIF). The contractor for works would be the
Enterprise for Earthworks, Equipment, Land Reclamation Design, Execution and
Contruction (IUTIFPEC). The completed schemes would be maintained by DELIF.
All these agencies have been well established during the course of the last 15
years of soil erosion control programs in Romania and are considered fully
competent in carrying out their respective tasks. There are elaborate review
procedures in Romania (Table T-9) which make sure that the designs prepared by
the Institutes are reviewed and scrutinized repeatedly, including checking of
investment costs. The review procedures are thorough and of high quality. It



- 26 -
would, therefore, not be necessary for the Bank to review the project reports
and cost estimates prior to commencement of execution. However, Bank staff
would supervise these works during execution. IUTIFPECs have been fulfilling
annual programs larger than those planned under the project and have adequate
capacity for executing the proposed project work. BAFI subloans under this
component would be made to DELIF.
5.4      The investments in agroindustries, dairy farms, and vineyards would
be implemented by IASs and CAPs who are engaged in similar on-going
operations. The procedures for financing and implementation of these type of
investments are well established under the Bank financed Livestock Projects
(Loans 1479-RO, 1669-RO, 1764-RO and 1937-RO) and Orchards Project (Loan
1876-RO). BAFI would grant subloans after appraisal of each subproject and
supervise them during implementation.
5.5      The implementation of pasture improvement schemes would be the
responsibility of Pasture Enterprises which exist in each judet. The improved
pastures would be operated mainly by Popular Councils of communes, CAPs and
the Pasture Enterprises themselves. The success of pasture improvement
schemes would mainly depend on; (a) prescription and enforcement of adequate
grazing control measures; (b) the degree to which required fertilizers - for
establishment of improved pastures as well as their maintenance - are made
available; and (c) transport facilities for Pasture Enterprise staff to
supervise pasture utilization and provide technical advice and training to key
personnel of the organizations concered. Assurances were, therefore, obtained
during negotiations from BAFI and MAFI that: (i) they would make available
adequate amounts of chemical fertilizers, and transport facilities for pasture
improvement staff, to help realize the purposes of the investment projects for
pasture improvement; and (ii) prior to first disbursements for this component,
they would submit for Bank review, detailed guidelines for grazing control
measures and their supervision as well as a schedule for training of personnel
of the entities operating the pastures.
5.6      Credit to individual producers would be channelled by BAFI through
credit cooperatives which are wide-spread throughout the project area
(para 3.7). Individual producers have access to free sanitary and veterinary
services from the Government organizations and would receive the production
inputs from CAPs and Government stores. The Government has recently taken a
decision to appoint veterinary and extension agents to assist individual
producers.
B. On-lending Policies and Procedures
5.7      BAFI would examine all subproject investment proposals to be financed
tinder the project to determine their technical feasibility and financial
viability. Detailed subproject investment proposals would be submitted to the
BAFI branches in accordance with normal BAFI procedure and would be approved



- 27 -
in accordance with the normal BAFI subloan approval authority delegation
(para 3.10). All subproject investment proposals would have to be cleared by
the responsible MAFI agency before review by BAFI.  BAFI staff is well trained
in appraisal reviews and has acquired substantial experience in Bank
procedures for evaluation of subprojects. Several of BAFI's staff have been
trained in the Bank's EDI courses and are familiar with the project evaluation
methodology.  The type of investments to be financed under the subprojects are
similar to the investments being financed by BAFI under previous Bank-financed
projects in livestock, orchard and irrigation projects. As such, no special
requirements for appraisal are considered necessary for this project and the
existing procedures used by BAFI are considered satisfactory. For subprojects
involving total fixed investment costs of Lei 70 million (US$4.6 million) or
more, BAFI would send its subproject appraisal report, in a format acceptable
to the Bank, for approval prior to any disbursements for these. All subloan
approvals would be reported to the Bank at quarterly intervals by BAFI in a
reporting format acceptable to the Bank. No withdrawals shall be permitted
unless a particular subloan has been approved by the Bank or, if the subloan
is a free limit subloan, the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the loan
account for the free limit subloan. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that BAFI would follow the above procedures.
5.8      In view of the large size of the sugarmill investment (US$41.7 m,
including contingencies), a special review procedure was agreed during
negotiations. BAFI would submit the detailed investment study /a for the
sugarmill, together with its subproject appraisal report for Bank review. The
Bank would review this documentation as well as actual operations of selected
existing mills in Romania during supervision, prior to approving the
subproject. This review procedure would enable the Bank staff to observe the
harvesting techniques, transport and storage conditions for sugarbeet in
Romania, which influence the sugar extraction rates and afford an opportunity
to make specific suggestions which might improve sugar yields. Assurances on
the above review procedures for the sugarmill were obtained during
negotiations.
5.9      In accordance with its current lending regulations, BAFI would
on-lend to IASs and SMAs for a period of up to 10 years, including a maximum
grace period of 3 years; and to CAPs for up to 16 years, including a maximum
grace period of 3 years. The loans to individual producers would be provided
by BAFI for a period of 5 years without any grace period. Funds for financing
investments for improved pastures and soil erosion control schemes would be
made to Popular Councils and the IELIF and would be repaid from the State
budget on terms and conditions similar to those for on-lending to IASs.
Subloans for farm mechanization component would be made directly to the SMAs
which would repay them out of their own revenues, with a repayment period of
up to 10 years.
/a Including items covered in the Order and Execution Blueprint (para 3.2).



- 28 -
5.10     The on-lending interest rates under the project would be the same as
those charged by BAFI on its regular operations. Medium-term loans extended
to CAPs and individual sector would be at 3% per annum. Loans to IASs would
be made at interest rates of 2% per annum during construction and 4% per annum
after start of operations. The average interest rate on total BAFI loans is
about 3% per annum and BAFI's financial and administrative costs would be
about 2.5% per annum, thus allowing BAFI to realize a positive spread on its
overall lending operations. As a result of central controls over all domestic
prices, Romania has maintained a domestic inflation rate on retail prices of
less than 1% per year. Recently the Romanian producer prices have, however,
been increased by about 11.5% and the revised rates of inflation for producer
prices are estimated to be 2.5% per annum over the period 1982-83. Therefore,
BAFI's subloans under the project would still be made at positive real
interest rates. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that BAFI would
implement the project lending terms as described above.
C. Accounts and Audits
5.11     BAFI follows satisfactory accounting and auditing procedures
(para 3.12). The audit report on the financial statements of BAFI as of
December 31, 1980 has been submitted to the Bank.  The audit opinion is
unqualified and also includes a statement that the proceeds of the loan, drawn
on the basis of BAFI's certificates of expenditures, have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided in the Loan Agreement. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that BAFI would continue to submit to
the Bank an annual audit report, satisfactory to the Bank, within 6 months of
the close of the fiscal year.
5.12     BAFI would keep separate accounts for all project expenditures,
including those relating to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan. These accounts would be audited by the commission
appointed by the Ministry of Financing, according to existing procedures
(para 3.12). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such project
expenditure accounts, satisfactory to the Bank, would be maintained and would
be available to Bank supervision mission during the course of project
implementation. Assurances were obtained from RAFI that the auditors will
give: (a) a separate opinion as to whether satisfactory procedures are in
operation at BAFI to ensure that the withdrawals made on the basis of
statements of expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they are
provided; and (b) an audit report on project expenditure accounts.
D. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation Procedures
5.13     BAFT maintains detailed records of financial and production results
of sub-borrowers relative to subproject appraisal expectations, which it uses
in its subproject supervision. In order to measure overall progress of
project implementation, in relation to objectives, goals and schedules
established for each component, BAFT would submit quarterly monitoring reports



- 29 -
to the Bank within 45 days of the close of each quarter. These reports would
include data on progress of construction of all physical facilities, progress
in the procurement of equipment and materials, and data on project
expenditures. BAFI would also prepare an annual report whose coverage would
include data on the number of enterprises and farms financed, the type, size
and ownership of each, the incremental production from the investements,
efficiency of production and the net incremental benefit from the
investments. Since its own procedures require BAFI to assemble such material
and data, the incremental cost of monitoring the project would be negligible.
BAFI would also furnish to the Bank a project completion report promptly after
completion of the project, but, in any event, not later than 6 months after
completion. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the above
monitoring arrangements.
VI. Production, Prices, Markets and Financial Analysis
A. Production
6.1      The project investment would increase total agricultural production
in the project area by increasing crop yields, reducing harvest losses,
expanding livestock operations, and increasing the value added through
additional food processing facilities. The value of annual incremental
production induced by the project has been estimated at Lei 2,050 million
(US$ 136 million) in 1981 prices. Incremental production under the project,
and its contribution at full development in relation to the current
agricultural production in the project area are given in Annex 3, Table 1, and
summarized below:
% Increase
Incremental Annual    Existing Annual         Over Current
Production Due To    Production in the        Project Area
Project          Project Area (1979)    Production
('000 Tons _/)         ('000 Tons l/)               (%)_
Wheat                       170                       634                 27
Maize                       200                     1,450                  14
Soybeans                     20                        36                 56
Oilseeds -
Sunflower                  25                        95                 26
Sugarbeet 2/                255                       980                 26
Alfalfa                      70                       775                   9
Grapes                       70                       462                  15
Fruits                       60                       230                 26
Meat (l.w)3/                 19                       339                   6
Milk (000 hl)               682                     8,987                   8
Wool (tons)                 770                     4,796                  16
Granulated Sugar             26                       125                  21
Wheat/Corn Flour              9                       742                   1
1/       Except where otherwise noted.
2/        Sugarbeet production shown in terms of clean beets.
3/       Meat production shown in terms of liveweight equivalent.



- 30 -
6.2       The project's impact on crop production in the project area would be
much greater than its impact on livestock production -- 65% of project
investments would support crop production while only 17% of project investment
would be for livestock production. Livestock development in the project area
is being mainly supported through four nationwide Bank financed livestock
projects (para 4.2) and the overall effect would be substantial.
B. Market Prospects and Arrangements
6.3       The incremental output from the project is expected to raise the
current levels of per capita consumption in the project area, which are low
compared to levels in most European countries (Annex 3, Table 2). An
estimated 5% population increase over the 1981-85 Plan period would contribute
to increasing local demand. Romania also has established export markets and
good future prospects for some products (para 6.9) and is trying to increase
exports to ease a difficult balance of payments situation. The combined
effect of the increased per capita consumption, population growth, and need to
export would be to generate substantial incremental demand. In the past,
Romania distributed the major part of agricultural production domestically
(Annex 3, Tables 3-6), and under the 1980-85 Plan intends to continue towards
the objective of raising food consumption levels close to per capita level]s in
other parts of Europe. Review of the trends in domestic production and
consumption indicates that for this objective to be realised, even in modest
terms, would require distribution within the project area of nearly all the
expected production increases of meat, sugar, fruit and cereals under the
project. The assumption and trends in the analysis are discussed below.
6.4      Meat, Sugar, and Fruits.  The present per capita consumption of these
items, which are becoming increasingly important to the Romanian consumer, is
significantly below that of other European countries (Annex 3, Table 2). The
per capita income in Romania, between 1981 and 1985, is projected to increase
by 19%, and the project area population by 0.2 m persons. Assuming increases
in per capita consumption to levels which are modest in relation to current
levels in Europe, production of meat, sugar and fruits under the project would
be exceeded by or equal to incremental demand in the project area.
Estimated Per Capita   Incremental          Incremental
Consumption          Demand in   Production Under
1980   1985  Increase  Project Area   The Project
(Kg)   (Kg)    (%)         (000 Tons)    (000 Tons)
Meat (liveweight)       62      68      10              33              19
Sugar                   28      33      18              26              26
Fruits                  63      80      27              72             60



- 31 -
6.5       Grapes.  The project area encompasses a major grape producing zone
currently contributing about 30% of total production of table and wine grapes
in Romania, nearly all of which is consumed domestically (Annex 3, Table 3).
The per capita consumption of table grapes and wine in Romania are reported
currently at 15 Kg and 37 1 per person, respectively, levels which are low
with respect to other European producer countries. Romania plans to give
priority to raising per capita consumption of table grapes to about 21 Kg per
person, which for the project area would take about one third of the estimated
production increase under the project.  The balance, ifrused for wine
production, would yield about 280,000 hl, representing an increase over
current national production of only 3%, less than the expected population
increase by 1985.
6.6       Cereals.  Romania utilizes domestically its entire cereal production
or equivalent (Annex 3, Table 4). Although prospects for cereal exports,
especially to Eastern Europe and the USSR, are bright, in the past Romania's
volume of international trade has comprised only small quantities of certain
cereal grades and varieties. The balance of exports and imports have amounted
to less than 5% of production. Of the two major cereals, maize is utilized
mainly for animal feed, wheat mainly for human consumption. The project's
incremental wheat production (516,000 tons) could be entirely utilized to
raise per capita consumption in the project area. At present, the per capita
intake of flour in the project area is 108 Kg. The project would help to
raise consumption to levels close to the national average of 183 Kg per person.
6.7       Between 1980 and 1985, the demand for maize in Romania for animal
feed is projected to rise from about 10 million tons to about 15 million tons,
according to the livestock subsector survey carried out by the Bank in 1980.
The project's incremental production of maize (354,000 tons), as well as of
alfalfa, soyabeans, and sunflower seed, which are to be increased under the
project, would be utilized largely to meet the increase in demand for animal
feed in the project area.
6.8       Soyabean and Sunflower.  Romania is deficient in production of
protein source crops and is a net importer of protein meal and soybeans for
producing animal feed. The incremental production under the project would
help to reduce soyabean imports by about 7% of current levels. Edible oils
from the incremental soyabeans and sunflower seed production under the project
would boost Romanian edible oil exports by about 9% (Annex 3, Table 5).
6.9       Export Markets.  If domestic requirements are met, incremental
production of meat and fruits could augment exports through Romania's existing
well established markets. Major export markets for meat are in the Middle
East, Europe and North Africa. Romania's meat quality in these markets is
well-established and competitive. The demand in these countries for the kinds
of meat which Romania exports is expected to remain strong. Romania also has
similar prospects in these markets for additional exports of edible oils. At
present, principal markets for Romania's fresh fruits are EEC countries (45%



- 32 -
of total exports) and East Europe (40%). In view of the increasing demand in
East Europe and Romania's close relationship with these countries, East Europe
and the USSR are expected to become Romania's major export market for fruit.
In 1979, Romania's main agricultural exports of meat and fruit were less than
20% and 10% respectively, of annual production (Annex 3, Table 6). In the
future, it is expected that meat and fruit exports will continue, but priority
would be given to meeting domestic demand.  Through its contribution to
realization of planned production targets, the incremental output under the
project would support the Governments export program.
6.10     Marketing Channels.  Central marketing organizations exist in Romania
for the major agricultural commodities. They are responsible for purchasing,
grading, processing, storing and marketing of agricultural products.
Marketing Centrals have district enterprises and centers which organize the
collection, transport and delivery of farm products to collection or delivery
depots throughout the country for distribution to the processing centers and
to agencies responsible for domestic and export marketing. Individual farmers
and members of CAP's sell farm products to these marketing Centrals under
contract for specified quantities at fixed Government prices. All IAS sales
move directly to marketing Centrals at prices established in advance by law.
Distribution is organized at the National level for distribution from the
depots of the marketing centrals to the public through retail outlets and
catering establishments. The latter are under the Ministry of Trade. The
present marketing channels appear to be effective in Romanian context and
institutional arrangements for marketing of project output are satisfactory.
C. Prices
6.11     In Romania all prices are fixed by State Decree and are designed
largely to reflect production costs rather than market forces. Some
consideration is, however, given to quality of produce and seasonality when
determining prices for vegetables, fruits, sugarbeets, grapes and livestock
products. Overall, the pricing system plays a much less important role in
Romania's centrally planned economy than in market economies. Recently the
two-tier producer price structure for state and cooperative farms was
eliminated and as of January 1981, production prices were increased by an
average of 11.5% in an effort to bring the domestic price levels closer to
international price levels. In the future, also, the price structure is
expected to undergo further changes aimed at bringing domestic and
international prices closer together. 1981 farmgate prices for primary
products and inputs and 1981 ex-factory wholesale prices of processed products
are used in the financial analyses (Annex 3, Table 7).
D. Financial Analysis
6.12     Financial models representing the project investments are given in
the Project Implementation File.  Detailed technical assumptions underlying



- 33 -
each component are presented in Annex 2, Tables 8-11. The Financial Rates of
Return (FRR) for the sub-projects (Annex 3, Table 8), would range from 6% to
40%, with the exception of the FRRs for the Pasture Improvement and Individual
Sector Livestock development subprojects which are discussed below.  Due to
Romania's central investment planning and price administration the financial
analyses reflect largely the capacity of subborrowers to service debt on their
loans from BAFI, which carry interest at rates below 4% per annum. From this
point of view all FRR's are satisfactory.
6.13     In the case of the pasture improvement subproject, the FRR to the
State enterprise is negative; it reflects the fact that the Government
intentionally fixes grazing fees below operating costs to encourage livestock
development in the Individual Sector which has inadequate pastures of its
own. Incremental operating costs for pasture improvements would be borne by
the State out of general revenue. This form of operating cost financing has a
precedent under existing Bank Livestock IV Project in Romania. The economic
rate of return, reflecting international prices, is a better indicator of the
viability of the investment in pasture improvement and is estimated at 40%
(para 7.5). The FRR on individual sector investments is estimated to be
70%. The unusually high FRR reflects the fact that the major portion of
actual grazing costs would be borne by the State rather than by the individual
and only investment by farmers wouldbe in the productive livestock. The
economic rate of return, taking into account full costs and benefits to the
economy, would be lower, at 47% (para 6.5).
VII. Project Justification
A. Benefits
7.1      General.  The project would assist the development of Moldova, one of
the less developed areas of Romania, through investments designed to; (a)
expand mechanized farming capacity; (b) improve the fertility of agricultural
land seriously threatened by soil erosion; (c) improve the fodder base for
increasing livestock production in the individual and state sectors, and; (d)
expand processing and storage capacities. The project's output would help
raise domestic consumption levels, export earnings and reduce agricultural
imports. In addition, the project would strengthen the base for future
agricultural growth.
7.2      Environmental.  The investments in soil erosion control measures and
pasture improvements would preserve currently eroding agricultural and pasture
land and reduce sedimentation entering river channels and reservoirs and flood
damage to crops, homes, and machinery (para 4.18). Benefits from the latter,
although substantial, have not been included in the economic analysis.



- 34 -
7.3      Beneficiaries and Employment Effects.  The proposed project would
benefit about 29,000 SMA employees, 169,000 CAP members, 14,000 IAS employees
and about 12,000 individual sector households. The individual sector house--
holds would benefit both from the investment credits made available to them
and from the improved pastures available to them. Workers remuneration in the
socialized sector is based on a set of salary norms established nationally.
The project would help raise the real wages of the population, indirectly,
through its impact on the standard of living and increased per capita
consumption. The farm mechanization component in particular, is aimed at
improving farm productivity in the face of continuing migration of rural
inhabitants to urban centers (para 1.3 and 1.7). Farm employment in the
project area is expected to decline and the proposed investments would enable
existing farms to continue to expand output. The construction of additional
processing facilities and expansion of farm machinery capacity in the project
area would provide over 1,000 additional permanent jobs in agroindustries and
the SMAs.
7.4      Cost Recovery.  Project investment costs would be recovered in full.
Subloan costs for all investments except for pasture improvement and soil
erosion control would be fully recovered through sub-borrower repayments. The
charges levied by SMAs for farm machinery services provided to IASs and CAPs
fully cover depreciation, overhead, parts and repair, fuel, operator wage, and
profit, thus ensuring full cost recovery. The investment and operating and
maintenance costs for pasture improvement and soil erosion control components
would be fully recovered through both direct and indirect mechanisms. The
direct mechanism would consist of a grazing fee for pastures (Annex 3,
Table 6) and a tax of lei 15 per hectare on areas protected from soil
erosion. The direct recovery would cover only a small portion of operating
and maintenance cost. The indirect cost recovery would take place through
compulsory portions of net incomes allocated to the Development Fund in case
of both IASs and CAPs. In addition, the profits made by the State from the
purchase of tradeable commodities at administered low farmgate prices and
subsequent export at higher world prices would contribute further towards the
cost recovery.
B. Economic Analysis
7.5      The project's economic rate of return (ERR) to the Romanian economy
is estimated at 31% overall, based on a 20-year period and the assumptions are
discussed below. The net present value (NPV) of the project would amount to
Lei 10,481 million, discounted at an interest rate of 9%, the estimated
opportunity cost of investment capital in Romania. The ERR and NPV for each
investment type is given in Annex 3, Table 9, and for the main project
components are presented below. All ERRs would exceed 9% and are satisfactory.



- 35 -
NVP at             % Total
Component                        ERR              9%        Project Investment Cost
(%)           (Lei m)
Farm Mechanization              32              6,570                   41
Sugar Mill                      12                 73                   14
Other Agroindustries            13                 104                   4
Soil Erosion Control            16                307                   18
Credits to Individuals          47              1,977                   10
Pasture Improvement             40                965                    6
Dairy Farms                     38                407                    4
Vineyards                       26                  78                   3
Total Project        31             10,481                  100
7.6      The economic model technical assumptions, full development yields and
output levels, and the phasing of investment and benefit streams are the same
as those for the financial analysis (para 6.12). In addition, the following
assumptions are made. First, for the Pasture Improvement Subproject the
benefits are valued in terms of the live weight increase of grazing cattle in
place of the grazing fees in the financial model. Second, for the Individual
Sector Livestock Subproject, economic costs of cattle feed are estimated in
place of the grazing fees. Third, for the Sugar Mill Subproject, about
three-quarters of the portion of the investment costs for utility infra-
structure would be for components which must be an integral part of the
construction but which would serve other investment activities not related to
this project. These costs have been excluded from the economic analysis.
Fourth, the rate of return for the farm mechanization component reflects the
benefits due to more timely cultivation, harvest, and transport, as well as
returns to increased fertilizer and pesticide use. The additional equipment
needed to carry out increased levels of these operations including
distribution, spreading, and spraying of fertilizers and pesticides, are
included in the project. The incremental costs due to increased fertilizer
and pesticide usage are fully reflected in the operating costs.
7.7      The economic evaluation is in terms of constant 1981 Lei.  Economic
border prices are based on projections for 1990 for commodities on the World
market (Annex 3, Table 10) and for other commodities whose market prices can
be related to World market prices. The economic producer prices at farmgate
and factory for traded commodities are derived in Annex 3, Table 11. Domestic
producer prices are used for other goods. Table 7, Annex 3 lists all economic
and financial prices used in the analysis.
7.8      In agricultural areas in Romania, field labor generally is in short
supply during critical periods such as harvest (para 6.3). Industrial urban
centers attract unskilled or low-trained workers with minimum wage rates
averaging Lei 80 per day, while wage rates in rural areas are usually less.
In the economic analysis field labor is valued at the rate of Lei 80 per day.



- 36 -
C. Sensitivity Analysis
7.9      The sensitivities of the ERR and NPV estimates to possible changes in
the main benefit and cost stream components are given in Annex 3, Table 9 and
are summarized below. The Switching Value (SV) for each of the main
components, the percentage change which would yield an ERR of 9%, indicate
that most of the subprojects are relatively insensitive to the degree of
change in investment costs and operating margins (benefits less operating
costs). Under the farm mechanization subproject, a change in the net
operating margin of more than 6% is unlikely (para 7.10). Changes in market
prices for outputs in the long-term normally are followed by parallel
movements in market prices for raw materials and operating costs, resulting in
only small changes in the operating margins. The sensitivity analysis
indicates that all the ERRs likely would still be satisfactory should any such
changes occur.
Farm
Mechan  Sugar  Livestock                Project
ization   Mill   Projects    Others        Total
Sensitivity to Changes:
Investment Cost up 10%            30        10      40           15         29
Operating Margin down 5%          12        11       41          18          11
Switching Values: /a
Investment Cost                 +258       +17    +357         +69        +228
Operating Margin                  -7       -14      -60         -37        -11
/a  Switching Value = Percentage change which would give an ERR of 9%.
D. Risks
7.10     Achievement of the projected increases in agricultural and livestock
production, including raw materials for the sugar and flour mills, would be
subject to the normal climatic variations which frequently cause harvest
losses and effect overall yield levels. A major objective for part of the
farm machinery to be provided under the project is to shorten the harvest
period for maize and grains and to improve the timeliness of cultivation and
application of inputs to lessen the impact of the occurance of unfavorable
weather conditions.
7.11     Institutional arrangements for the proposed project are well
established and BAFI has been the borrower on previous Bank loans for
agriculture sector in Romania. The successful development of agricultural
production in the project area will require strong Government support in the
furnishing of production inputs and supporting equipment and spare parts. A
possible risk under this project would be adequate distribution of imported



- 37 -
chemical farm inputs and livestock feed components and the furnishing of
supporting machinery, maintenance facilities and fuel for the farm
mechanization components. This risk has been discussed with the Romanian
authorities who have assured that adequate resources for carrying out the
project would be provided.
VIII. Recommendations
8.1      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BAFI that it would:
(i)     implement the project as described in paras 4.02 through 4.11;
(ii)     follow the financing and disbursement procedures outlined in
paras 4.13 through 4.16;
(iii)     follow the procurement procedures outlined in para 4.17;
(iv)     take steps to implement farm mechanization and pasture
improvement components as outlined in para 5.5;
(v)     submit for Bank review and approval, all subprojects whose
investment cost exceeds US$3.9 m (para 5.7).
(vi)     follow on-lending policies and procedures and terms and
conditions described in paras 5.7 to 5.10; and
(vii)     follow the auditing, accounting, and progress reporting and
evaluation requirements described in paras 5.11 to 5.13.
8.2      Subject to these agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$95 m equivalent, with a term of 15 years, including a 3 year
grace period.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Staff Appraisal Report
Moldova Agricultural Credit Project
Romania
Annex 1: Detailed Project Cost and Phasing
A. Project Cost Estimates
1.       Project cost estimates for investments to be financed under the pr-
oject are presented in the following tables of this Annex;
Table          Description
1            Total, Foreign and Local Costs
2            Annual Phasing of Project Expenditures
3            List of Machinery to be financed under Farm
Mechanization component
4            List of Schemes to be financed under Soil Erosion
Control component
5            Project Procurement Estimates
6            Project Disbursement Profile
2.       The cost estimates for this project are based on prices prevailing
in June 1981, at the time of project appraisal. All prices in Romania are
controlled and are revised infrequently. The latest price revision took
place in January 1981 when producer prices were increased, on average, by
11.5%. The base cost estimates reflect this increase. No significant price
increases are anticipated between June 1981 and December 1981. Price
contingency provisions for 1982 onwards are discussed in para 4 below.
3.       Physical contingencies have been included as follows: 10% on dairy
farm modernization and pasture improvement; 7% on soil erosion protection
works; 5% on vineyard modernization; and about 3-4% on agroindustries. No
physical contingencies have been provided for farm mechanization, credit to
individual producers and maintenance equipment for soil erosion protection,
works.
4.       Price contingencies have been calculated on the base cost plus the
physical contingencies, at the following expected price increases (in %
annually):



- 39 -
Domestic Civil Works '1            Foreign Equipment and
and Equipment                         Materials
1982                  2.5                                   6.5
1983                  2.5                                   7.5
1984                  2.5                                   6.5
1985                  2.5                                   6.5
/1 No foreign civil works are anticipated
B. Location and Phasing of Investments
5.       The location of all investments has not yet been decided.  IBRD
Map No. 15867 shows their location where it is known.
6.       Table 3 shows the type and phasing of farm machinery to be financed
under the project.
7.       Table 4 shows a summary of total cost and phasing of investments
under the soil erosion protection component per judet and erosion protection
scheme.
8.       The 18 dairy farms to be modernized would be at the following
CAPs: (a) Bacau Judet: Podari, Burdusani, Oncesti; (b) Vaslui Judet:
Tirzii, Perieni, Zorleni, Tonacu, Vaslui, Rosiesti, Viisoara, Deleni,
Negresti, Grivita, Falciu, and Musi; and (c) Vrancea Judet: Ciorasti,
Timboiesti, Vinatori, Vultureni.
9.       The location and size of vineyards and pasture improvement schemes
will be determined during implementation. It is anticipated that the
investments as well as the proposed credits to individual farmers and
household producers would be divided as follows:
Vineyards in ha             Pasture         Credit to Individuals
Judet           New      Moaernization   Improvement in ha             in Lei m
Bacau           -                                5,450                    50
Botosani        -              -                10,000                    50
Iasi           183            628                4,550                    30
Neamt           -              -                 8,000                    75
Vaslui          72            247                5,450                    20
Vrancea        190            320               10,900                    75
445          1,195               44,350                   300
Tihe phiasing of thiese investments is shown in Table 2.



- 40 -
10.      The agroindustry investments would be located as follows:
Location
Investment                   Unit         Place                 Judet
Flour Mill                     1          Flamizi               Botosani
Cold Store (dairy products)   1           Botosani              Botosani
Sugar Mill                     1          Murgeni               Vaslui
Grain Silos                    2          Falciu & Mihaileni   Vaslui
Grain Store                     1         Adjud                 Vrancea
Grain Stores                   2          Bosiesti/Buhaesti    Vaslui
The phasing of these investments is shown in Table 2.



ROMANIA
Table  1:   Total, Foreign  and Local  Costs
(LEI)                                          (US0)                        Z of
----------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------- Foreisn  Z of Total
Local          Foreign          Total            Local         Foreign         Total       Exchange Base Costs
A. FARM MACHINERY               1,0980775P200.0   795,664,800.0 1,894Y440,000.0   73,251,680.0 53,044,320.0  126Y296,000.0           42.0        47.5
D. AGROINDUSTRIES                 498,638,490.0   230,047,510.0   728,686,000.0   33,242,566.0 15,336,500.7   48s579,066.7           31.6        18,3
C. SOIL EROSION CONTROL WORKS    500,690,020.0   117,370Y980.0   61B8061,000.0   33,379,334.7  7,824,732.0   41f204,066.7            19,0        15.5
D. CREDIT TO INDIVIDUALS          270,000,000.0    30,000,000.0   300,000Y000.0   18,000,000.0  2,000,000.0   20w000,000.0           10.0         7.5
E, PASTURE IMPROVEMENT            166,312Y500.0    55,437,500.0   221750000.0   11,087,500.0  3,695,833.3   140783Y333.3             25.0         5.6
F. DAIRY FARMS                     94t983t840.0    36,938,160.0   131,922,000.0    6,332,256.0  2,462,544.0   8794?800.0            28.0         3,3
G. VINEYARDS                       73,563,750.0    22,281,250.0    95,845,000.0    4,904,250.0  1,485,416.7    6,389,666,7           23.2         2.4
___  ____  ____  _ __ ___ __ __  __  _ __ __ _ __ __ _  __                                               - - -- - -- - - -
Total BASELINE COSTS              2,702,963,800.0 1,287,740,200.0 3,990,704,000.0  180P197Y586.7 85,849,346.7  266,046,933.3           32.3       100,0
Physical Contingencies            74y307y621.9    22,741,444.1    97,049,066.0    4,953,841.5  1,516,096.3    6-469p937.7           23.4         2,4
Price Contingencies              1119643t760.9   154,224,132.1   265,867,893.0    7,442,917.4 10,281,608.8   :t7i724,526,2          58.0         6.7
Total PROJECT COSTS               2,888,915Y182.8 1,464,705,776.2 4,353,620,959.0  192,5946345.5 97,647,051.7  290s241,397.3           33.6      109.1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
=-- ==-



ROMANIA
Table  2:   Annual  Phasing  of Project Expenditure
Lei '000
Base Costs                           Fhv.  For.
-------------------------------------------------------- Cont, Exch.
Unit Cost     PY1          PY2         PY3         PY4       Total      Rate  Comp.
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. FARM MECHANIZATION                      1   788,578.0   984,966.0  120,896*0             - 1,894,440.0       0  0.42
D. AGROINDUSTRIES
FLOUR MILL a/                           1    15,676.)            -           -           -    15,676.0  0.03  0.27
CHEESE COLID STORE d/                   1                 17,110.0   19,713.0            -    36,823.0  0,04  0.28
SUGAR MILL bl                           1    82,829.0   281,417.0  206,628.0             -   570,874.0  0.02  0.33
GRAIN SILO c/                           2           -    36,532.0   42,256*0             -    78,788.0  0,04  0.26
GRAIN STORE e/                          5           -    26,525.0            -           -    26,525.0  0.04  0.25
Sub-Total AGROINDLUSTRIES                       989505.0   361,584.0  268,597.0             -   728,686.0
C. SOIL EROSION CONTROL WORKS
PROTECTION WORKS                       1    71i621.0   173,440.0  212,430.0  119,770.0   577,261.0  0.07  0.18
MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT                  1    20400.0    20,400.0             -           -    40,800.0      0  0.33
Sub-Total SOIL EROSION CONTROL                  92,021.0   193,840.0  212,430.0  119,770.0   618,061.0
D. CREDIT" TO INDIVIDUALS                 1   100,000.0   100,000.0  100,000.0             -   300,000.0       0   0.1
E. PASTURE IMPROVEMENT                    5            -    33,260.0  188,490.0            -   221,750.0   0.1  0.25
F. DAIRY FARMS                         13.5            -   117,B82.0   14,040.0            -   131,922.0   0.1  0.28
G. VINEYARDS
NEW VINEYARDS ( HA !               30.25    12,015.0    16,020.0   21,360.0    4p450.0    53,845.0  0.04  0.25
MuDERNIZATION ( HA )                9.25            -    39,600.0    2,400.0            -    42,000.0  0.05  0.21
Sub-Total VINEYARDS                            12,015.0    557620.0   23,760.0    4,450.0    95,845.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                            1,091,119.0 1,847,152.0  928,213.0  124y220.0 3,990,704.0                                                 ||
Total BASELINE COSTS                            1,091,I190 1,847,152.0  928,213.0  1_24220.0 3,990,704.0
/a  WORKING CAPITAL=1,7409000 LEI(INCLUDED ABOVE)
/b  WORKING CAPITnL= 1,200 LEI(INCLUDED ABOVE)
WORKING CAPITAL   15t1469000 LEI(INCLUDED ABOVE)
'd  WORKING CAMPITAI   1410
eGRAIN STORE WRF:$ING CAPITAL= 2l1-



- 43 -
Annex 1
Table 3
ROMANIA
APPRAISAL OF MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Machinery Component
List of Farm Machinery to be Financed Under the Project
Total
Number             '000
Equipment                                       of Units              Lei
45 HP tractor                                    1,300               84,500
65-80 HP tractors                                4,600              437,000
180 HP tractor                                     600              243,000
S.P. grain combine                                 600              129,000
S.P. ear maize harvester                           900              360,000
3 T hay stacking wagon - loose hay                 240               28,800
Hay chopper                                          80                 520
3 T hay stack mover - trailer                      120                7,200
S.P. forage harvester                              240               72,000
Manure spreader                                    800               25,280
Chemical fertilizer spreader                     1,000               21,540
Sprayer 2,000-2,500 L                              400               24,000
Duster-sprayer                                   1,200               48,000
Disk harrow - tandem 55 kg/blade                  1,080              24,400
Disk harrow - offset 1.2-1.5 m wide                 600               2,800
Disk harrow - 55 kg/blade                           800              37,600
H.D. disk harrow - 110 kg/blade                     320              19,200
Moldboard plow - reversible                      5,200               52,000
Cultivators                                      2,000               40,000
Trailers - 5 ton                                 7,200              237,600
TOTAL                                                             1,894,440



- 44 -
ROMANIA                                  ANNEX 1
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF                                 Page 1 of 2
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Soil Erosion Protection Works
Investment Costs
Reference  Total        Investment        Phasing of Investments
No. on      Area        Cost          1982    1983    1984    19R5
JUDET/Scheme            Map         Protected  -----------------Milion Lei----------
---ha---
BACAU
Godinesti-Sirbi           1           5,360        22.7        -     10.2      7.9      4.6
Bahna-Nic.Balcescu        2           3,060        10.0       -        -       5.5      4.5
Zeletin I                 3           4,000        12.0       -        -       6.6      5.4
Valea Morii               4           3,900        19.1        -      8.6      6.7      3.8
Buhusi                    5           3,100        14.5       -       6.5      5.1      2.1
Trebis                    6           2,400        13.0       -       7.1      5.9       -
Belci                     7           1,000          5.0      -       2.8      2.2       -
Valea Seaca               8           1,900          9.5     4.3      3.3      1.9       -
Valea Mare-Faraozni       9             900          4.0      -       2.2      1.8       -
Racaciuni                10           2,500         17.5       -      7.9      6.1      3.5
Cleja                    11           1,000          5.0      -        -       2.8      2.2
Pereshiv III             12           4,000        19.4      8.7      6.8      3.9    _ -
TOTAL                              33,120       151.7    13.0    55.4    56.4    26.9
BOTOSANI
Horia-Liveni             13           5,430        24.3       -      10.9      8.5      4.9
Sitna-Morisca            14           3,450         9.1       -       5.0      4.1       -
Jijia Superioara         15           1,150        11.0       -        -       6.0    '5.0
Ibaneasa                 16           2,500        12.0       -        -       6.6      5.4
Statiunea Popauti        17             100         1.0      0.6      0.4       -        -
Poienile Haringii        18           2,000        10.0       -       5.5      4.5       -
Versanti Trusesti        19           3,000        12.0       -        -       6.6      5.4
Rogojesti                20           1,000         5.0       -       2.8      2.2    _ -
TOTAL                              18,630        84.4      0.6    24.6    38.5    20.7
IASI
Sinesti                  21           8,650        19.9       -       9.0      6.9     4.0
Nicolina                 22           2,210         6.0       -        -       3.3      2.7
Pascani                  23           1,500         6.3       -       3.5      2.8       -
Vainesti                 24           2,000       .10.0      4.5      3.5      2.0       -
Albesti I                25           3,400        19.7       -       8.9      6.9      3.9
Oras Pascani             26           1,000         4.0       -       2.2      1.8       -
Valea Cirlig             27           1,500         6.9       -        -       3.8      3.1
Halceni                  28           2,000         8.4       -        -       4.6      3.8
Bulbucani                29           2,000         9.9       -       5.5      4.4       -
TOTAL                              24,260        91.1      4.5    32.6    36.5    17.5



ANNEX 1
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
Reference  Total        Investment       Phasing of Investments
No. on     Area        Cost           1982    1983    1984    1985
JUDET/Scheme            Map         Protected  ----Million Lei------------
---ha---
NEAMT
Siret-Ion Creanga       30           2,000         4.1       -       2.3      1.8      -
Brusturi-Raucesti       31              310         3.0      -        -       1.7     1.3
Agapia                   32           2,000        10.0      -        -       5.5     4.5
Valea-Mare               33           2,300        10.0      -        -       5.5     4.5
TOTAL                              6,610        27.1       -       2.3    14.5    10.3
VASLUI
Tutova Mijlocie         34            2,760        18.8     8.5      6.5      3.8      -
Crasna Medie            35           8,000        23.1      8.1      5.8      4.6     4.6
Pereschiv VII            36           2,300       11.9       -       6.4      5.5      -
Crasna Inferioara       37           5,750        12.1       -       6.6      5.5      -
Similia                 38           2,190        11.4       -        -      6.3      5.1
Negresti-Draganesti    39           24,430       107.5    37.5    27.0    21.5    21.5
Giurcani-Elan           40           2,000          9.0      -        -       5.0     4.0
Valea-Iezerului         41           1,500        10.0       -        -       5.5     4.5
TOTAL                             48,930       203.8    54.1    52.3    57.7    39.7
VRANCEA
Pereschiv II            42            2,200         8.0     4.4      3.6       -       -
Zabrauti-Putna          43           1,690         12.0      -       5.4     4.2      2.4
Dumitresti-Chiojdeni   44             1,500         7.0      -        -       3.9     3.1
Odobesti-Cotesti        45           1,000         4.5       -        -       2.5     2.0
Valea-Sarii              46           1,000         4.5      -       2.5      2.0      -
Odobesti-Virtescoiu    47            1,200          5.5      -       3.0     2.5       -
Cotesti-Cirligele       48             800         3.5       -        -      1.9      1.6
Homocea                 49              500         2.0      -        -      1.1      0.9
Burca                   50              375        4.7       -       2.1     1.7      0.9
Mera                     51             150         2.2      -        -       1.2     1.0
Straoane                52              175        2.4       -        -      1.3      1.1
Cirligele               53              200         3.0      -       1.7     1.3       -
TOTAL                             10,790        59.3      4.4    18.3    23.6    13.0
Maintenance Equipment                                40.8    20.4    20.4        -       -
TOTAL COSTS                                      658.2    97.0   205.9   227.2   128.1



- 46 -                     Annex I
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
Moldova Agricultural Credit Project
Project Procurement Estimates
1.       List of equipment to be procured under International Competitive
Bidding Procedures (Romanian bidders are expected to win these, contracts);
(a) Maintenance Equipment (Soil Erosion Component);
Item                              Quantity      us$  0ooo
Track dozer 80 HP                    10           470
Motor grader 180 HP                   5            470
Hydraulic excavator                   7            790
Wheel loader                          5            165
Wheeled tractors                    20             200
Dump trucks 5 ton                    13           400
Four wheel drive tractors            10            100
Four wheel drive cars                 6             60
Radio equipment                       -            165
Subtotal                                        2,820
(b) Mechanization Component
Item                           Quantity       Us$ ,000
Tractors 65-80 HP                4,600         29,130
Tractors 180 HP                    600         16,200
Grain combine self-propelled       600          8,600
Maize harvestor self-              900         24,000
propelled
Subtotal                                       77,930
To be procured according to the following appropriate time schedule;
Total
Quantity    1982    1983
Tractors 65-80 HP                                4,600      2,000   2,600
Tractors 180 HP                                    600        250      350
Grain combine self-propelled                       600        350      250
Maize harvester self-propelled                     900        400      500
(c) Agroindustry Component:
us$ 0ooo
Processing euipment                             7,500
2.       Chemical to be procured under ICB procedures (Romanian bidders are
not expected to win these contracts):
Item                                           us$ 'ooo
Pesticides                                        500
Fertilizers (P205)                              4,500
Subtotal                                        5,000



Annex 1
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
3.       Equipment to be procured under ICB procuedures (Romanian bidders
are not expected to win these contracts):
us$ '000
Agroindustry processing equipment                2,000
TOT AL                                          95,250



- 48 -                         ANNEX 1
Table 6
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ProJect Disbursement Profile
Project       Romania Agric.
Project              Disbursement    Disbursement
Disbursements              Profile         Profile 1/
(US$ M)                 (%)              M%)
Annual       Cumulative       Cumulative       Cumulative
FY 83      12.0             12.0           12.6             12.6
FY 84      28.0            40.0            42.0             38.6
FY 85      32.0            72.0            76.0             67.9
FY 86      13.0             85.0           89.0             87.0
FY 87      10.0            95.0           100.0             97.3
95.0
100.0
1/ All Bank Agriculture Projects in Romania.



- 49Q -
Annex 2
Table T-1
Moldova Agricultural Credit Project
Romania
Table T-l: List of Bank Loans Channelled Through BAFI
Loan
Serial       Loan                                           Amount        Date of Loan
Number      Number      Name                                  $m           Agreement
1         1082-RO    Giurgiu-Razmiresti                    70           02/06/1975
2         1038-RO    Sadova Corabia                        30           02/06/1975
3         1169-RO    Flood Recovery                        40           11/12/1975
4         1247-RO    Rasova Vederoasa Irrigation           60           04/28/1976
5         1368-RO    Ialomita                              60           03/02/1977
6         1479-RO    Livestock I                           71           07/15/1977
7         1669-RO    Livestock II                          75           04/16/1979
8         1764-RO    Livestock III                         85           12/17/1979
9         1937-RO    Livestock IV (Cattle)                 80           01/09/1981
10         1670-RO    Mostistea Irrigation                  70           04/16/1979
11         1509-RO    Viisoara Irrigation                   40.5         01/27/1978
12         1795-RO    Covurlui Irrigation                   90           04/08/1980
13         1938-RO    Irrigation VII (BBSP)                 75           01/09/1981
14         1971-RO    Irrigation VIII (Caracal)             80           06/24/1981
15         1876-RO    Orchards                              50           06/30/1981
976.5



Project Area
Table T-2 Gross Production of Crops and Livestock Products (1979-1985)
Project Area as
Proiect Area                             Romania                     % of Romania
1979        1985       % increase      1979      1985       % increase        1979         1985
Crops ('000 tons)
Wheat               634       1,150           81.4      4,716      6,980          48.0           13.4         16.5
Maize            1,450        1,804           24.4     12,425    14,525           16.9           11.7         12.4
Sunflower           95          116           22.1        888      1,240          39,6           10.7          9.4
Soyabean            36           53           47.2        383        865          25.9            9.4          6.1
Sugarbeet        1,167        2,145           83.8      6,109    10,035           64.3           19.1         21.4
Vegetables          356         506           42.1      3,376      4,680          38.6           10.6         10.8
Livestock Products
Meat (l.w.)         339         538           58.7       2,538     4,012          58.1           13.4         13.4
Milk (000' h.l.) 8,987       14,290           59.0     51,388    89,338           73.9           17.5         16.0
Wool (tons)      4,796        8,043           67.7     37,325    58,018           55.4           12.9         13.8
Eggs (millions)    908        1,082           19.2      7,085      8,143          14.9           12.8         13.3
Source: Data provided by BAFI and data extracted from Annual Stati4tics, 1980
4                '-~~~~~~I1R
1:f3i



Table T-3:   Actual and Planned Investments in Project Area and Romania, 1976-1985
(in million Lei)
Breakdown of Total Investments
Land
Total                                     Mechan-        Reclam-      Agro-
Investment    Crop /a       Livestock       ization         ation    industries       Others
Project Area
Actual 1976-80        23,502         2,645          4,428          4,596          4,018        4,293         3,521
% Distribution           100            12             19             19             17           18            15
Plan 1981-85          25,067         2,447          7,358          5,853          4,668        4,201            540
% Distribution           100            10             29             23             19           17              2
% Increase 1981-85
over 1976-80             7            -8             66              27            16           -2           -85
Romania
Actual L976-80       164,200        12MA00         51,300         33,900         30,400       30,500         6,000   *
% Distribution           100           7.4           31.2           20.6           18.6         18.6           3.6  -
Plan 1981-85         185,000        14,500         55,000         54,000         26,500       31,400         3,600
% Distribution           100           7.8           29.7           29.2           14.3         17.1           1.9           1
x Increase 1981-85
over  1976-80           13            20              7             59            -13            3           -40
Project Area as
% of Romania
1976-80                 14            22              8             13             13           14            58
1981-85                 13.5          17             13             11             18           13            15
/a  Mainly orchards, vineyards, plastic houses
Source:  BAFI and MAPI



ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTtURAIL CRFDIT PROJECT
Table T-4:            BAFI: Sources and Applications of Funds 1977-1985 (in million lei)
Actuals                                                   Projected                                Accumulated
197h       1977        1978       1979       1980        1981       1982        1983        1984       1985       1977-80        1981-85
A.  SO01RCES
1.  Increase in Liabilities
NB increase in Overdraft          4,307       1,791      7,395          -      41,876      9,541       4,116      4,253       6,052       7,353       57,062         31,315
Coop. Deposits                       -          221         -          828         -          19S         -          100          25         25        1,049            345
State Deposits                      919         141         -       1,475          -       1,187         100          -           25         25        1,616          1,337
Other Deposits                       -            3           1          3           1         -          -           -          -           -             8             -
External Credits                  1,303         818        983      3,086       5,709          -       1,770       1,630        946          -       10,596           3,946
Fund for ST Credits               1,900          -          -           -          -                      -           -          -                        -              -
Funds for MT/LT                   2,768       3,630      2,004      1,785          -           -          -           -          _           _         7,419             _
Collections on A/C                   56          -          52          -          -            I         -           -          -           -            52              1
BAFI                                  8         153         -           -         161          -          43          25         60          40          314            168
Other Liabilities                 1,486          -       1,757          -         971           7         50          50          50         50        2,228            207
2.  Decrease in Assets
Cash                                 -           -          -           -           4          -          -           -          -           -             4             -
ST Coops.                            -           -          -       5,799          -                                                         -         5,799
ST State                             -           -          -           -          48          -          -           -          -           -            48             -
ST (thers                            -           -          57          -          50          -          -           -          50          -           107             50
Ml/l,l Others                        -            2           2          1         -           -          -           -          -            -            5             -
Total Sources                               12,7S9      11,7S1     12,977    48,820    10,931          6,079      6,058       6,808       7,493      86,307          37,369
B.  APPLICATIONS
1-  Decrease in Liabilities
NB Tncrease in Overdraft             -           -          -       1,152                                       -                                      1,152
Coop. I)eposits                     278          -         304          -           9          -          -           -          -           -           313
State Deposits                       -           -         514          -         584          -                                                       1,098             -
other Deposits                         2         -          -           -          -           12         -           -          -           -            -              12
External Credits                     _           -          -           _                     703                                         1,090           -           1,793
Fund for ST Credits                  -       2,750       1,009         -           -          -           -           -          -           -        3,759              -
Funds for Mr/l.T                     -           -          -           -     29,481           -          -           -          -           -       79,483
Collections ol, A/C                  -           66         -          48          15          -                                             -           129             -
3AFI                                 -           -          60          77         -         247          -           -          -           -           137            247
Other Liabilities                    -       1,566          -       1,939                                       -                            -         3,505             -
2.  Increase in Asset7                                 7         21          4          -          27           4          3           3                       32             35
ST Coops.                            -          215     4,297          -        7,635      1,007       1,500      1,000       1,000      1,200       12,147           5,707    I
ST State                             -       2,918       2,368      4,99S          -       4,662         950      1,450       2,05(0      1,600      10,281         10,712
ST o(thers                           -          4(0         -          20          -          65          5n          50         -          200           60            365
MT/IT Coops.                         -        3,439      1,896      4,112       2,598      1,396       2,000      2,000       2,700       2,300      12,045          10,396
MIT/LT State                         -       1,503       1,205        4S5       7,907      7,786       1 ,0o      1,500       1,000       1,000      11,070           7,786
MT/LT Others                         -           _          -                       2           8         2            S           S         -             2             43
Other Assets                         26    _255             77        175         587          23         'In         50         50         100       1,094             273
Total Applications                          12,759      11,751     12,977    48,820       10,931       6,079      6,058       6,808       7,493      86,307          37,369
Note:  MT = Meditim Term Loan; LT   Long Term Loan; Coop = Cooperatives; NB = National Bank; ST = Short Term Loan; A/C = Account



APPRAISAL OF
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
--.--------------------------------
ROMANIA
SANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
Table  T-5:           HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
(MILLIONS OF Lei)
YEAR        1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    19B3    1984    t985
ASSETS
Cash                           56       58      65       86      90       86     108      112     115      il8      121
Short-term loans:           40297   49732   52905   59513   58729   66266   72000   74500   77000   80000   83000
a) Cooperatives                -   12645   12860   17157   11358   18993   20000   21500   22500   23500   24700
b) State enterprises           -   36655   39573   41941   46936.  46888   51550.  52500   53950   56000   57600
c) Others                      -      432     472     415      435     385      450     500      550     500      700
Medium S long-term loans   18719   21723   26663   29762   34328   44835   49025   52550   56055   59760   63060
a) Cooperatives                -   17559   20998   22894   27006   29604   31000   33000   35000   37700   40000
b) State enterprises           -    4144    5647    6852    7307   152i4   18000   19500   21000   22000   23000
c) Others                      -       20      i8       16      15       17      25      50       55      60       60
Other assets                 1107    1133    1388    1465    1640    2227    2250    2300    2350    2400    2500
Total Assets                60179   72646   81021   90826   94787  113414  123383  129462  135520  142278  148681
Liabilities & Net Worth
UJ
NO overdraft                28441   32748   40539   47934   46782   88658   98199  102315  t06568  112620  119973
Deposits:                    5129    5768    6i33    5316    7622    7030    8400    8500    8600    8650    8700
a) cooperatives             2697    2419    2640    2336    3164    3155    3350    3350    3450    3475    3500
b) state enterprises        2426    3345    3486    2972    4447    3863    5050    5150    5150    5175    5200
c) Other                       6        4       7        B      It       12       -        -       -        -       -
LIABILITY FOR FUNDS
a) Fund For ST credits      1859    3759    1009         -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
b) External c-edits /3       204    1507    2325    3308    6394   12103   11400   13170   14800   15346   14256
c) Fund for med. & LT c   19296   22064   25694   27698   29483           -       -        -       -        -       -
DUE TO STATE BUDGET FOR
a) Collections on accou       22       78      12      64       16        1       2       2        2        2       2
b) BAFI                     1244    1252    1405    1345    i268    1429    1182    1225    1250    1310    1350
Other liabilities            2384    3870    2304    3561    1622    2593    2600    2650    2700    2750    2800
NET WORTH
a) Statutory capital         800      800      600     800      800     800      800     800      800     800     800 
a) Surplus reserve           800      800     800     800      800     800      800     800      800     800      800                              F'
Total net worth              1600    1600    1600    1600    1600    1600    1600    1600    1600    1600    1600
Total liab. & net worth    60179   72646   81021   90826   94787  113414  123383  129462  135520  142278  148681                                   In
Ftunded State Inivestments
BAFI as Fiscal Agent       19086   21726   27254   28144   24034          -       -        -       -        -       -
AT DECEMBER 31



APPRAISAL OF
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ROMANIA
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND FOOD INDUSTRY
--------------------------------------
Table T-6:              HISTORICAL AND PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(MILLIONS OF Lei)
YEAR         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
INCOME
Interest on ST loans /1       1540    1679    1952    2007    2085    2296    2601    2690    2847    2988    3016
Interest on M & LT loans       316      328     382      457      499     676      801    1016    1086    1158    1228
Commissions received /2         82      100      121     132      132      143     t60      165      181      186      191
Other income                     5        1        1       -        3        2        I       2        1        2        1
Total income             1943    2108    2456    2596    2719    3117    3563    3873    4115    4334    4436                        1
EXPENSES
_ 
Interest paid NB               419      570     535      617      664     733    1310    1407    1467    1540    1634
Interest paid IBRO               7       50      174     271      382     500      610      755      881     941      864                 1
Interest on deposits           107       54     162      177      203     237      250      261      270     280      300
Commissions paid /4             14       14       16      18       18       16      la       20       21       23      25
General & admin. exp           151      165      163     169      182      178     190      200      220     235      258
Misc. bariking exp.               1       1        1       -        2       24       3        5        6        5        5
Total Expenses            699     854    1051    1252    1451    1688    2381    2648    2865    3024    3086
Net Income                    1244    1254    1405    1344    1268    1429    1182    1225    1250    1310    1350
% increase over
previous year                -         8      12       -5       -6      13      -17        4        6        5       3
I'.



Bank for Aori-Itore end Food industry
Table T-7:    Selected Financial Ration  /1
_____   (Lei amounts in million)
A.  Finani.o tattoo
1. Pinanc.Ing of ST I-o
a.  Avg. ST loan octatanding                                                917   o     4045          155         20.0        59121 00    909   -0013-00    7325  00    757t  0    18500 00    01500 0
b.  Avg. (NB  --ndreft + deposit + Fond for ST credit)                      4230         99   0      2390         009          37   0     7000         0139         0770        1915    1490            2919
o R atio (atb)                                                                10             9         13          II           11           5                        .7          05           o           n
2. Financing of MT end IT loans
a.Avg. MT OndfIT 1003oiioig1870                                                       2710         29   0      7229        72045 00    305090        07 0  0     5907079      94020    57907o 50        -121.,
b.  Avg.  (Fond  -o   Tad IT loans, credits ±otnrno1 crdits)  I81   0                   75090        2750         9129         34   0     499   0      1715         1290          990 II507700    .4.01...
R. Btio  (o hI                                                                09           9          04           0 009                       5         aa          41             .11       33 
3.  interna  debt /2 to met worth
a.Avg  external debt                                                         020         -5  50     11 0        2-1 90      497  0        24  9      1-17-.    123a-.00         950    15073l0         -12l0
b.  Avg. net wot-a00                                                                      000          00  0       10  0       10   0      10 00        15000        120.00      100.0       180  00     100.0
R. Stic  (a h)                                                                0 0         09              0        I7              3        57             .046 7.00               .3         922         34
S. Income Ratioa
1. Yield on ST loam portfolis
a.Interest ono ST loans /3                                                 15771-09 0                05i02070                200  00     29  00       I901 00     2890 00      2I7n48   0               050
b.  Av.'ST Ioe-   ettatnding                                                  3l 00    71    7             S. 80        57        4 07- 67                 37            .7          27         71          7.00
n.  Yield (a b, %)7                                                                                                                                                      -             7.30
2. Yield on MT and IT loam portfolio
a.   Itereat on MT and IT Ion...1.0                                                      2  0         00         470         3~0          07 -  00-2-1-00          10300       150.300   .1799 00    .14.10 
b.  Avg. IT Io..n. otstanding                                               1800        2710          49   0     212.0        3050         23.0        3900          00.0       5328    30   0          849
o.  Tield (a b, %)-2                                                                                                                S                                      0                      oI
3. Yield on financial ....eta
a.Total interest inoexo                                                    18-0 070                  330        246.0        20.0        2810          050         32.0        31.0        430          590
h Avg. 6tota  loans ootstoding                                            9n2  0       5355         59131-5     32.0       9190         0090         1040         2075        4025   13207 50   14210
c.Yield (a . b~         .                                                                                                       2 3    8 30    2 38    5 45              0         28          .3         22
C.  foenes. netios
1.  Cost  of 55ooverdoef
e.ItORt   pa Id NB                                                         290          5000         ,90        0700         240          73.0       1000          40700-475               900          5a0
b.  Avg. NB ovedcstt ooetarding                                             2I5l0 09   0              63  0       33  90      2380         72   0       33   0 105   0   1041- 189   0    1459
c.  Cout (e b, TI                                                                                                                                                                                                  12
2.  Coat of wtetnelordt7.0                                                                      50          1200        210          7800        900          000         7900          810        9400        sa0
a.  Intetoutand foestpid IBRD,"10  70                                                41900       .131        3190         2 00        93s50        171.00140.0               8-0.       8740        4510
h.  Av. belanc  outotanding                                                     5 o          I 4         30            .0          .7          92             9         8  9         33            4         98
o.  Cos  (o b, TI/4
3. Cost st deposits
a.   Intsrss:t paid o  depoaits /5                                             10I05l11l40                          770          0  00       470         250.00       201.00       219.00     08000         000
b A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g5205105                                                         39.5        739         06   0      129 00       935  I039   0            05.0         690         650
b.  Avg. dpoelta ouatanding/6                                           47           99          17          39           3           322          2u          0.03      8- 1          3.49         445
c.Cost (a b, 2)
e interest paid NB, IBRDI snd depooittorn                                81543 00     677001. 0                7380         7405         94 0         113930      20923 00    21280 SQ    211320      072.50.
h.  Ag. ibalence outstomdiog: NB ovordraft + deposits + sotera1                   07O1n 3                             13           I4             8         19              I027                 2.0         20
otedito + Ponds for ST, MT ond IT ocedito
5.  Cost of ed.nisitratiasn8  00.                                                               100         1.O.0 1Oo        0       22  0       480          211 00       24  00      22.00.    26-0          2
a.Coo -issin pd + general + adoo + mis.-  bmbnki.  eapenuo..2.               4 710..   092150   10190 1112.9    1172591 00   -0-2 50 100   0    0200    1-470.00  1-000  00 18300
b.  Avg. (total loans  oultotoding + Stats badoetl                               0 3         07.01                       72 7                  020          oi          02           0 s4       0 29         0.27
C. Cot (a b, TI
B.  AaolRest Pletfarnsno   Ratios                                                            0         1I             0         70             7         29           .1          30
Tt!I                                                        I11          1           211                      3.01         30.          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  3 12  3.09
1.Toa   mons_  4 av. total ..s..  (tI                                              7         Io             5         I 9          I4             s         00          0 0           .4        0 5          02
2.  Pinanvisi incom  - finanial expenses  (B3e-CAd(%)                                I               9           7         I 9         I 0          I62         20           2. 00        2.1       2' 15           1
A. Net income Avg. total ass ets (SI
/1  All ratios ore nalculated on the besis of ave9rsig ths peer-end belan-s  snow  in the bal-sc  sheet (Table 2).
These are generally reliable srogtafor avrae   based on avorge daily holen-s  for ths estire pest.
snoops in tbs sese of short-teen... eats and liabiliti-a w here peer-and balanosa mop depart quite eaten..ively
Bros avareges baaed on the entire peer doe to tbs -seaoelitY of ogrioultoral production finanoing. The year-
en'd sve-ege  do, howeve, give a generally r1igable iedloation  of the trooda, ovn for the ohors-tern
/2  The Pond formdiom  and long tern crdits heu no fcoed repayment sohdale snd 700 ho  -ooidared near-eqoitp.
I           ttcmlordc   therefore repreean.t total long tern deht s-  regarda debt s-1vinSg.
/3  lncludea paeBlp intest
/j  Ioloes  ommt""t fees; interest on Loans 1082-SB, 1247-Si end13gSiu eptisd orgchlas
reepsotive greos periods end thereby eoloded from  this iten.               16-OJ   -i.i.   .igteL..
/5  Iniludes only intevs   Pai.n,            Psow   oocs
.6Isoladac depoedto of the Credit Crops.  (CiCu) held io.  BAFS hobh.                reueof.sefnsuno   h   sse 
It Pops on th-  is rel2bhraed by SB; neisber of  tbs  oiter..nsacion                     fnor   tAP's i.ncome 1 Sttheint.rt
Nste1 NB - Batioma1 Bank; ST - Short tern; IT  Long tern; MT - Medium term



Annex 2
- 56 -                             Table T-8
Page 1 of 2
Table T-8: ~.e  Technical Assumptions Underlying
Primary Production Models
Without           With
Category                                       Project           Project
1.  Establishment of 1 ha Vineyards
- Full Development Reached by                          -               PY9
- Number of Vines                                      -              4,000 - 5,000
- Yield per ha at Full Development                     -                 11 tons
- Casual Labor at Full Development                     -              130 man-days
- Production Cost                                      -              Lei 30,150
2.  Modernization of 1 ha of Vineyards
- Number of Vines                                  2,750              3,500
- Full Development Reached by                          -               PY5
- Yield                                            5.5 tons            9 tons
- Casual Labor                                     70 man-days        100 man-days
- Production Cost                                  Lei 12,875         Lei 24,150
3.  CAP-Dairy Farm Modernization
- 520 Cows Increasing to 600 Cows:
- Full Development Reached by                          -               PY4
calving Rate                                          88%            88%
- Mortability Rate - Calves (0-15 days)                 7%              7%
- Mortability Rate - Adults                             1%              1%
- Culling Rate - Cows                                  14%             20%
- Milk Production - Cow/Year                       2,500 1            4,000 1
- Cull Cow - Weight                                  519 kg             519 kg
Cattle Feed Requirements (tons)                Holstein Friesian  Holstein Friesian
- Hill Hay                                           432                508
- Grass Silage                                     1,458              1,716
- Fodder Beet                                      3,367              3,963
- Wet Beet Pulp                                    1,560              2,040
- Straw and Maize Cobs                               322                379
- Green Matter                                     7,244              8,527
- Maize Silage                                       483                569
- Mixed Feed                                         539                647
- Milk Replacer                                        8                 10.5
- Milk                                                32.9               43.2
- Staffing (employees)                                50                 27
- Management System                            Stanchion Barns    Loose Houses
- Milking System                               Bucket Milking      Herring Boiie Milking
Plant               Parlor
- Production Cost                              Lei 5.8 Million    Lei 5.1 Million



Annex z
- 57 -                             Table T-8
Page 2 of 2
Without            With
Category                                 Project           Project
4. Pasture Improvement (l ha)
Full Development Reached by
Fertilizer Application                              -              PY3
- Amonium Nitrate                                  -               300 kg
- Superphosphate                                   -               150 kg
- Potash                                           -                67 kg
Lime (starting PY6)                                -               400 kg
Reseeding (starting PY6)                           -                15%
Yield (green material)                           2 - 10 tons       18 - 25 tons
Liveweight Gain                                    47 kg           246 kg
Production Cost                                    -               Lei 1,330
5. Individual Sector Development
(a) Dairy Operation
1 Cow Increasing to 3 Cows
- Full Development Reached by                      -               PY5
- Calving Rate                                      76%             80%
- Mortality Rate - Calves                           8%                7%
- Mortality Rate - Adults                            3%              3%
- Culling Rate - Cows                              14%              15%
- Milk Production - Cow/Year                     2,200 1           2,800 1
- Cull Cow - Weight                                450 kg          520 kg
- Cattle Breed                                   50% Local and    Holstein, Brown
50% Holstel-,    Swiss and
Brown Swiss-      Simmenthal
and Simmenthal-
Type Cattle
- Concentrate Feed-Cow/Year                        450 kg          500 kg
- Unimproved Meadow                              2 ha                -
- Improved Meadow                                                   1 ha
- Fodder Cultivation                                               1 ha
- + Communal Pasture                             Yes               Yes
- Production Cost                                3,566 Lei        10,550 Lei
(b) Individual Sheep Operation
50 Ewes Increasing to 80 Ewes
- Full Development Reached by                      -              PY4
Lambing Rate                                   90%                95%
- Lambing Ratio                                 100%               108%
- Mortality Rate - Lambs                          6%                  5%
- Mortality Rate - Adults                         3%                  3%
- Culling Rate - Ewes                            20%                23%
- Milk Production - Ewe/Year                     30 1               45 1
- Cull Ewe - Weight                              40 kg              48 kg
- Wool Production - Ewe/Year                       3.0 kg             3.7 kg
- Sheep Breed                                    Local            Local x Corridale
- Concentrate Feed-Ewe/Year                      25 kg               60 kg
- Unimproved Meadow                               3 ha                -
- Improved Meadow                                                     2 ha
- Fodder Cultivation                                                  1 ha
- + Communal Pasture                             Yes                Yes
- Production Cost                                Lei 10,800       Lei 25,750



Annex 2
- 58 -                           Table T-9
Table T-9: Key Technical Assumptions For Soil Erosion Protection Component
1.        Key assumptions made for the design of soil erosion protection works are:
a. Rainfall probability taken as 10% for protection to agricultural areas,
5% for reduction of sedimentation of reservoirs and property damage
and 1% for special cases.
b. Soil erosion reduced to 6 tons/ha/year.
2.        Assumptions for working out benefits from the project are:
a. The main benefit accrues from agriculture, other benefits being
reduction in sedimentation of reservoirs and damage to property.
b. The cropping pattern does not change by implementation of protection
works, nor the arable area.
c. The yields of various crops increases as fertile topsoil is not
washed and higher inputs are possible. Assumptions of increased
yields and increased inputs are given in the the enclosed Table 1.
d. Extra production is consumed locally.
e. The benefit from reduction in the sedimentation of reservoirs is
quantified on the basis of the cost of removing the sediment if it
continues to reach the reservoir.
f.  The damage to property is quantified on the basis of number of hlouses
saved from damage.
3.        The with and without project yield and cost (financial in 1981 constant
prices) assumptions are as follows:
Average Production Cost
Average Yield kg/ha                       Lei/ha
After the                         After the
Crop              Project      Present              Project        Present
Wheat              1,500         1,260               1,450          1,360
Maize              1,730         1,400               1,230          1,190
Barley             1,650        1,330                1,360          1,260
Sunflower          1,400         1,190               2,500          2,040
Fruits             4,000         1,650               7,230          3,400
Vineyards          6,000         4,450              14,100         11,200
Forage (pastures) 5,280          3,090                 120            120



- 59 -
Annex 2
Table T-10
Page 1 of 4
Table T-l0: Key Technical Assumptions
Farm Mechanization Component
1. The benefits from investment under the farm mechanization component
would accrue in the following ways:
(a)  Tillage  All the primary as well as the secondary tillage
operations in the project area are fully mechanized at present.
However, the introduction of the reversible plow and heavier disk
harrows under the project would permit preparation of smoother
surface than is possible with the currently used one-way plows and
light disc harrows. The smoother surface would permit better crop
germination and higher efficiency in subsequent operations. The
benefit (indirect) would be reflected in increased crop yields;
(b)  Cultivation  There are indications that large yield reductions are
resulting in project area due to inadequate cultivation. The
tractor and cultivators financed under the project would permit
more timely execution of cultivation operations and, thus, permit
higher yields;
(c)  Fertilizer and Pesticide Application  The fertilizer spreaders
financed under the project would facilitate the planned increase in
fertilizer application from 113 kg per arable ha in 1980 to 380 kg
per ha in 1985 and, thus, help achieve the projected yield
increases under the Five Year Plan. The Sprayers and the
Duster-Sprayer units financed under the project would facilitate
timely disease and pest control, thus minimizing losses;
(d)  Harvest  Harvesting equipment financed under the project would
generate benfits in two ways: (i) avoiding crop losses due to
delays at harvest; and (ii) permitting harvesting of increased
production in the project area which would result from higher
fertilizer application as well as improved cultivation practices;
(e)  Transport  During the peak harvest period, one of the biggest
contributors to post-harvest losses in crops is lack of transport.
Hand harvested maize, as well as machine harvested ear maize
sustain high losses of both quantity and quality if not promptly
transported to proper storage facilities. Sugarbeets sustain
equally high losses when they are allowed to remain in the ground
and freeze because of transport shortages. The trailers and
tractors financed under the project would help reduce these kind of
losses; and



- 60 -
Annex 2
Table T-10
Page 2 of 4
(f)   Hay Stacking  Under the project 240 hay stacking wagons (van),
80 hay chopper heads, and 120 self-loading stack movers
(trailers) would also be financed. The van would (used with or
without chopper-head) be pulled by a 65 hp tractor and would
pick up wheat straw, soybean vines, corn stalks, dry alfalfa,
and other loose, dry plant material. When the van is full, the
3-ton stack will be deposited at the end of the field and be
transported by the trailer. This system would improve the
recovery of low value feed materials at a lower cost than the
system where baling is required.
2.       The Five Year Plan for the project area expects to raise yield per ha
through increased level of farm mechanization. Fertilizer application and
pesticides would be wasted if adequate mechanization is not provided and
vice-versa. The model specifications, therefore, show capital expenditures in
farm machinery as investment cost while increased outlay for current
expenditures for fertilizers and pesticides are included in the project
operating costs. It should be noted that the estimated rate of return on farm
mechanization investment would not be possible in absence of accompanying
increased expenditures for fertilizers and pesticides.
3.       For purposes of model specification, it has been assumed that the
proportion of irrigated area remains unchanged in with and without project
situations. The yield projections as well as level of fertilization are based
accordingly. The with project yield levels under the soil erosion control
component, which would stabilize currently eroding land and thus enable its
further development with farm machinery, are equal to or less than the without
project yield levels for farm mechanization compoent.
4.       The Five Year Plan for the project area provides for an investment of
Lei 5,853 m in farm machinery during the period 1981-85. Out of this Plan
allocation Lei 3,763 m is for farm machinery for SMAs. The balance is for
machinery and equipment for transport control, DGEIFCA, miscellaneous food
industry equipment, research equipment and small items for IAS and CAPs. Out
of Lei 3,763 m for SMAs, about 25% or Lei 753 m would be spent in 1981,
leaving Lei 3,010 to be spent over the 1982-85 period. The project would
finance farm machinery worth Lei 2,065 or about 69% of the total investment in
farm machinery in the project area. No benefits have been assumed for
machinery investments outside of the project. Some other equipment, such as
sugarbeet harvestors, potato diggers, grape harvestors and fruit harvestors
would be supplied to SMAs through bilateral agreements with Eastern block
countries. For these operations, we have assumed that level of mechanization
would remain unchanged in with or without project situation. The incremental
production increases under the project have been estimated in relation only to
the incremental farm machinery capacity to be provided by project
investments. With project replacements for existing machinery have been
included in the replacement costs. They are assumed essential only for
maintaining without project production levels.



- 61 -
Annex 2
Table T-10
Page 3 of-4
5.       The cropping pattern is assumed to be the same in both with and
without project situations.
6.       The machinery provided under the project, besides permitting timely
harvest, transport, chemicals application and cultivation, would permit 100%
mechanized harvesting of maize and alfalfa which, at present, is 50% manual.
7.       To estimate the rate of return on farm machinery investment, a
representative model of SMA and its command area was developed as follows.
The existing tractor and combine fleet size for an SMA model was computed by
dividing the existing fleet of the project area by the total number of SMAs
existing in the project area, i.e. 97. The new fleet size and the investment
cost were determined by dividing the equipment to be financed under the
project by 97 SMAs. The service area and cropping pattern for the model SMA
was likewise determined by dividing the total agricultural area and cropping
mix in the project area, in 1979, by 97.
8.       The new tractors financed under the project make up 31% of the with
project fleet and are assumed to complete at least 31% of the production work
in the model. The new combines make up 15% of the with project fleet and are
assumed to do 15% of harvesting work.
9.       SMA's machinery charge in without project case is the new standard
custom rate, approved by the Government in 1981, which includes operator
wages, parts and repairs, fuel and lubricants, depreciation, and SMA overhead
and profit. SMA's machinery charge in with project case is the same as above
for machinery not purchased under the project, less operator wage, which is
shown separately. SMA's charge on machinery financed under the project is
less operator wages and depreciation. For model purposes, wear-out life of
self-propelled combines was reduced from 8,400 hours as used in Romania to
6,000 hours for depreciation calculations (Table 20). Where Romanian hours of
life for a particular piece of equipment were not available, U.S. estimates,
coupled with experience, were used to estimate the number of hours for
depreciation calculations.
10.      The with and without project yield assumptions are presented below.
The without project yields are derived on the basis of average yields in the
project area for three years 1977-1979.  The with project yields are based on
the Five Year Plan targets for project area reduced by an average of 12% in
line with shortfalls from plan targets in the past.



- 62 -
Annex 2
Table T-10
Page 4 of 4
Yield Per Hectare in Tons
Crop                Without Project                 With Project         % Increase
Wheat                      2.3                            2.8                  22
Maize                      2.9                            3.3                 14
Soybean                    1.1                           1.7                  54
Sunflower                  1.3                           1.7                  31
Sugarbeet                 20.2                          25.4                  26
Potato                    14.9                          17.6                  18
Onion                     14.0                          17.6                  26
Alfalfa                    5.5                           5.5                    0
Grapes                     6.0                           7.0                  16
Orchards                   7.0                           8.8                  26



- 63-         ~       Annex 2
Table T-ll
Page 1 of 2
ROMANIA
Moldova Agricultural Credit Project
Key Technical Assumptions for Agroindustries Component
A. Flour Mill (Wheat and Maize)
1.   Plant Design Criteria
(a) 25 tons per 24 hours (Wleat)
(b) 25 tons per 24 hours (Maize)
(c) Operation 280 days per year
(d) Input (Wheat 7,000 t/yr, Maize 7,000 t/yr)
(e) Output
Items                                    Tons
White Wheat Flour                        2,426
Semi White Wheat Flour                  3,049
Extra Maize Flour                          762
Maize Flour                             4,505
By-products                              3,120
Process Losses                             138
B.  Cold Storage Plant (Cheese)
1.   Plant Design Criteria
(a) Static Storage Capacity - 3000 tons
(b) Provision for minus 20-250C chambers
(c) Provision for plus 40C chambers
(d) About 7.5 turn over per year
(e) Mechanical handling using pallet system
C. Grain Stores (Flat)
1.   Design Criteria
(a) Static Storage Capacity
Location             Tons             Area m2
Adjund            10,000                 2,904
Rosiesti          10,000                2,904
Bubaesti           5,000                1,452
(b) Concrete Construction (Reinforced)
Walls 2.5 m high
Center 5.0 m high
(c) Grain Cleaner Included
(d) Mechanical Handling Provision
(e) Two Turnovers per year



- 64 -
Annex 2
Table T-ll
Page 2 of 2
D. Grain Silo
1.   Silo Design Criteria
(a) Static Storage Capacity
Location                                 Tons
Falcui                                 22,000
Mihaileni                              22,000
(b) Slip Form Reinforced Concrete Construction
(c) 24 Storage Bins (6.5 m diameter and 27 m high)
(d) 12 star shaped Intersticed Bins
(e) 20 three sided Intersticed Bins
(f) Grain Dryer Included
(g) Provision for Rail and Truck Receiving and Loading
(h) 2.5 Turnovers per year
(i) Mechanical Handling (belts, bucket)
E. Sugar Mill
1.   Mill Design Criteria
(a) 2000 tons beets per 24 hours
(b) Operating about 100 days per year
(c) Raw Material input (sugar beets) 205,000 tons yearly
(d) Output (yearly)
Granulated Sugar                              26,000 tons
Molasses                                       8,000 tons
Pulp (wet)                                   160,000 tons



- 65 -
ROMANIA                                            ANN4EX 3
Table 1
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Current and Projected Yields, Production, Capacities and Output By Subproject
Full Dev.
Sub-      Current                   1979                Annual
Project  Average    Projected    Annual                 Production     Proportionate
Area      Yield 1/  Yield          Production/Output   Increment        Increase
(000 Ha)  (Tons/ha)   Tons/ha)    (000 tons)             (000 Tons)               X
State Soil Erosion Control (142,340 ha)
Wheat                                                  29.5      1.3         1.5            37                   7.5                   20
Maize                                                  59.7      1.4         1.7            84                  19.5                   23
Barley                                                  3.6      1.3         1.7             5                   1.1                   24
Sunflower                                               0.5      1.2        1.4              1                   0.1                   17
Grapes                                                  8.7      4.5        6.0             39                  13.3                   34
Tree fruit                                              3.8      1.7        4.0              6                   9.0                   43
Pasture                                               36.4       3.1        5.3            113                  79.7                   71
State and CAP Farm Mechanization  (1,283,000 ha)
Wheat                                                 343.0      2.3 1/      2.8           634                   170                   22
Maize                                                 505.0      2.9        3.3           1450                   200                   14
Soybean                                               31.0       1.1        1.7             36                    20                   55
Sunflower                                             61.0       1.3        1.7             80                    25                   31
Sugarbeet (clean beets)                               49.0      20.2       25.4            980                   255                   26
Potato                                                42,0      14.9       17.6            625                   115                   18
Onion                                                   6.o     14.0       17.6             85                    20                   26
Alfalfa                                               141.0      5.5        6.0            775                    70                    9
Grapes                                                72.0       6.0        7.0            430                    70                  17
Tree frnit                                            33.0       7.0        8.8            230                    60                  26
CAP Vineyard Establishment and Modernization (1640 ha)
Grapes                                                  1.6      5.5        9.5            6.6                   9.1                 138
CAP Dairy Farm Modernization (21,760 head)
4/
Cow milk (000 hl)                                                                         899) (000 hl)    5/  250.0 (000 hl)           3
Beef (liveweight)                                                                          339 (liveweight)        0.59                 0
Veal (liveweight)                                                                          339  5/                 o.o6                 0
State Pasture Improvement (44,000 ha)
Beef (liveweight)                                                                           339  5/                5.50                 2
Sheepmeat (liveweight)                                                                      339  5/                 5.50                2
Individual Sector Development (11.500 farms)
4/
Cow milk (000 hl)                                                                         8990 (000 hl)          350.00                 4
Beef (liveweight)                                                                          339  5/                 1.40                 0
Veal (liveweight)                                                                          339  5/                  .83                 0
Breeding heifers (000 head)                                                                n.a.                    2.50 (000 hd)        -
Sheep Milk (000 hl)                                                                      8990 (000 hl) 4/        82.00                 1
Mutton (liveweight)                                                                        339 5/                  2.20                 1
Lamb (liveweight)                                                                          339 5/                  2.46                 1
Wool                                                                                         5                     0.77                15
Breeding hoggets (000 head)                                                                n.a.                   27.00 (000 hd)        -
Agro-Industries
Sugar Mill - beet processing canacity                                                    11,000 (tons/24 hrs)   2,000 (tons/24'hrs)  18
granulated sugar                                                               125                    26.0 6/             21
molasses                                                                       n.a.                    8.0 6/             -
Flour Mill - wheat milling capacity (tons/24 hr)                                          1,500 (tons/24 hrs)      25.0 ktons/24 hrs)  2
corn milling capacity (tons/24 hrs)                                           370 (tons/24 hrs)      25.0 (tons/24 hrs)  7
wheat flour                                                                    621  7/                4.5 8/              1
corn flour                                                                    121  7/                 4.6 8/              4
Grain Stores - capacity                                                                   1,200                    69.0                6
grain loss reduction                                                         n.a.                   2.1                 -
Cold Storage (dairy products) - capacity                                                      6                     3.0               50
1/ Current (1980) avera&e yields used in the analysis.  1979 yields differed marginally .at most crops but for wheat averaged about 1.8 tons
per ha, or about 12% below tha wvthout project yiel4 k  the analysis.
2/ Yield on existing 1195 he.
2/ Average yield at full development 1640 ha.
4/ Total annual cnw and sheep milk production in entire project area.
Total annual beef and sheep meat production in entire project area.
6/ Pulp and valuable residual would result also.
7/ Total volume marketed in project area.
8/ Germ, bran, and other valuable residuals would result also.



- 66 -                          ANNEX 3
Table2
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Market Prospects
Per Capita Consumption of Meat, Sugar, and Fruit
in Romania, Europe, and the U.S.
Meat l/              Sugar-/              Fruit3/
(Kg)                  (Kg)                 (Kg)
U.S.                 104                    45                  99
Europe (EC-9)        144                   n.a.                n.a.
Italy                n.a.                   32                 119
Spain                n.a.                   29                  98
Greece               n.a.                   32                 106
Turkey               n.a.                   27                 100
Poland               152                    46                 n.a.
Hungary              156                    49                  67
Yugoslavia            96                    33                  51
Romania               95  4/               28                   63
1/ All kinds of meat and meat products. Liveweight equivalents.
Sources: FAO 1972-74 data for U.S.;
USDA 1978 data for all others.
2/ Source; USDA 1978 data for all except for Romania which is 1980 data reported by
BAFI.
3/ Sources; 1972-74 data, L.W. International Financial Research, Inc. 1979, and
Eurostat Yearbook of Agricultural Statistics for all except for Romania which is
1980 data reported by BAFI.
4/ Comprised of 35 Kg per capita for poultry and game and 60 Kg per capita for beef,
sheepmeat, pork and other kinds of meats.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Market Prospects
Romanian Grape and Wine Production Consumption and Export
1975    1976      1977    1978      1979    1980
--------------------(000 tons)----------------
Grape Production
Total                      1182    1536       1456    1321      1486    1487
Of which:
Wine grapes                1015    1354       1283    n.a.      n.a.    n.a.
Table grapes                167      182       176    n.a.      n.a.    n.a.
Grape Exports                    44      38        43     51        40       62
Domestic Consumption           1138    1498      1416    1270      1446    1425
Per Capita Consump-
tion of Table Grapes
(Kg person)  1/             5.6      6.4      5.9    n.a.       n.a.    n.a.
Wine Consumption                          ________(000 hl)-------
Production                 7270    9668       9108    7633      8869    n.a.
Exports                      840     710       870     910       900    n.a.
Consumption                6430    8958       8238    6723      7969    n.a.
Per Capita (1/person)         30      42        38      31        36    n.a.
Source: Romania 1980 Statistical Yearbook; Romania, May 1979, Development and
Industrialization of Grape Production.
1/   After deducting 3% losses.



-68 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 4
ROMANTIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Market Prospects
Romania Cereal Production and Exports
1965    1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
------------------------(million tons)---------------
Production
Wheat                    6.0     3.4      4.9      6.8     6.5      6.3      4.8     6.5
Maize                   5.9      6.5      9.2    11.6    10.1    10.2    12.4    11.2
Others                  0.7      0.7      1.2     1.4      2.0      2.5     2.1      2.5
Total Cereals          12.6    10.6    15.3    19.8    18.6    19.0    19.3    20.2
Net Cereal Trade
Exports                 n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    1.6        2.1      1.9     0.6      0.2
Imports                 n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    1.6        1.3      1.2     1.5      0.2
Net Trade               n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    (.0)    0.8         0.7    (0.9)    (.0)
Source: Romania 1980 Statistical Yearbook. USDA Foreign Agricultural Service, 1980.
Information on change in stocks not available.



- 69 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 5
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Market Prospects
Romania Production and Trade of Soyabean,Oilseeds,and Edible Oils
Soyabean Production and Imports
1976      1977           1978           1979         1980
-------------------(000 tons)----------------------
Production       213        194            230           383          448
Imports          220        151             83           301          300
Total Soyabean Use    433         345            313           684          748
Source:  Romania 1980 Statistical Yearbooks.
Oilseed Production and Net Oil Trade
1965  1970  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980
Oilseed Production
Sunflower               564   770   728   799   807   816   888   n.a.
Soyabean 1/             n.a.  n.a   n.a   433   345   313   684   748
Flax seed                35    42    45    50    42    61    47   n.a.
Others                   13    16    17    10    12    13    10   n.a.
Edible Oil Production 2/    270   360   370   381   365   370   456   470
Edible Oil Trade
Exports                        33   119   141    87   157   131   146   n.a.
Imports                         1     7      7    10      6     3     4   n.f -
Net Oil Exports                32   112   134    77   151   128   142   n.a.
Total Oil Use                 238   248   236   304   214   242   314   325
Source:  Romania 1980 Statistical Yearbook.  Information on change in stocks not available.
1/  Total Soyabean production plus imports. Import data not available for 1965-1975.
2/  Crude oil equivalents computed using the following crushing yields:
sunflower 35.0%, soyabean 18.2%,. flax seed 36.1%, castor seed 46.5%,
poppy seed 33.5%, mustard seed 23.0%.



ANNEX 3
- 70-                                 Table 6
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Market Prospects
Romania Meat and Fruit Exports
1/
MEAT PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS:
1965     1970       1975      1976      1977      1978      1979
-------------------(000 tons liveweight equivalent)---------
Production
Pork            482       604        955       1018     1026      1069      1141
Beef            341       450        539        586       642      601       657
Sheepmeat       109       143        164        159      179       176       206
Poultry         115       152        354        394       439      462       534
Total      1047     1349       2012       2157      2286      2308      2538
Exports 2/
Pork             26        39        144        124       123        77      129
Beef             94       103        122        146       212      196       232
Sheepmeat        16        35         91         94      107        98       108
Total       136      177        357        364       442       371       469
(%)       13%       13%        18%        17%       19%       16%      18%
1/  Source: Romania 1980 Statistical Yearbook.
2/ Liveweight equivalents assume weights of live exports for slaughter at
450 Kg per head of cattle and 35 Kg per head of sheep, and ratios of carcass meat
to liveweight as 50% for beef and sheepmeat and 70% for pork. Tinned exports
assume 80% pork and 20% beef.
1/
FRUIT PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS:
1976-78 Average
Apri-             Other  Subtotal
Apples  Plums   Pears   Peaches   cots   Cherries  Fruit  Fruit
Production             476    560      81        64       42        55       98       1,376
Less Losses 2/      12      28       4         4        4         2        9          70
Net Production    457    532        77       60        38        53       89       1,306
Export
Fresh               20      10       3       17         3         1        7          61
Processed            23.     3       2         4         1        1        4          38
Total           43      13      5        21         4         2      11          99
(%)            9      2       6        35       11         4       12           8
1/  Source:  MAFI
2/  Losses:  Apples - 4%; Plums - 5%; Pears - 5%; Peaches - 6%; Apricot - 9%';
Sweet Cherry - 8%; Sour Cherry - 0%; Other fruits - 9%; and
Table Grapes 9%.



- 71 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
Page 1
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices for the Financial and Economic Analyses
A.   Crop Outputs and By-Products
Financial           Economic
(Lei/ton) 1/        (Lei/ton) 2/
Crop Outputs
Wheat                                                 1500                  3800
Maize                                                 1270                  3200
Barley                                                1500                  3800
Soyabean                                              3250                  7700
Sunflower                                             2680                 6300
Sugarbeet (clean beets)                                345                   301
Potato                                                 800                   800
Onion                                                 1500                  3960
Alfalfa                                                580                   580
Grapes (Table and Winery weighted)                    4500                  5200
Fruit (apples, pears)                                 3400                  3600
Crop By-Products
Wheat Straw                                            148                   148
Maize Stalks                                           120                   120
Barley Straw                                           148                   148
Soyabean Vine                                          120                   120
Sunflower Stalk                                        120                   120
Sugarbeet Tops                                          50                    50
1/ 1981 prices fixed by State Decree (September 22, 1980).
2/ Projected 1990 Prices in constant 1981 Lei.



-72 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 7
Page 2
B. Crop and Pasture Inputs
Financial            Economic
(Lei/ton) 1/         (Lei/ton) 2/
Seed
Wheat                                                 1875                 4750
Maize                                                12000                30200
Barley                                                1875                 4750
Soyabean
Sunflower                                             3350                 7875
Sugarbeet (clean beets)                              14150                121.00
Potato                                                1200                 1200
Onion                                                 2000                 5300
Alfalfa                                              26200                26200
Grapes                                                5625                 5625
Fruit                                                 4250                 4500
Grass                                                25000                25000
Legume                                               56000                56000
Fertilizers
Nitrogen nutrient                                     3000                 91.00
Phosphorous nutrient                                  4500                 8000
Potassium nutrient                                    2300                 3500
Plant Protection
Sevin                                                81000                81000
Lintox                                                4320                 4320
Dithane                                              30000                30000
Orthocid                                             30000                30000
Pitezin                                             44000                 44000
Dicotex                                               4600                 4600
Sintex                                               22600                22600
Atrazini                                             34000                34000
Triclorflor                                          60600                60600
Labor
Field Labor         (per hr)                            10                   10
Equipment Operator (per hr)                             16                   16
Fuel
Petrol (Regular grade) (per liter)                    5.8                   8.4
Diesel                  (per liter)                   5.0                   7.2



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
Page 3
C. Livestock Products
Financial            Economic
(Lei/ton) 1/         (Lei/ton) 2/
Beef (liveweight equivalents)
Cull cows                                           15,000                22,100
Calves (0-15 days)                                  20,000               29,500
Heifers (5-12 months)                               14,000               20,600
Heifers (13-21 months)                              16,500                24,300
Heifers with calf - local (per head)                11,150                16,400
Heifers with calf - imported (per head)             18,000               18,000
Cows' Milk - 3.5% fat (per liter)                      2.0                   3.2
Sheep (liveweight equivalents)
Cull ram                                            11,000               21,800
Cull ewes                                           10,000               19,800
Male lambs (4-5 months)                             15,000               29,700
Cull hoggets                                        14,000               27,700
Breed rams (per head )                               2,500                5,200
Breed ewes/hoggets (per head)                        1,000                2,100
Sheeps' Milk - 7.0% fat (per liter)                     5.0                 5.0
Wool                                                  50,000                50,000



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
Page 4
D. Livestock Production Inputs
Financial           Economic
(Lei/ton) 1/        (Lei/ton) 2/
Feed
Fodder beet                                         120                   120
Wet beet pulp                                        30                    30
Straw and maize cobs                                140                   140
Alfalfa                                             580                   580
Rye grass                                           500                   500
Hill hay                                            480                   480
Maize                                             1,270                 3,200
Maize silage                                        180                   180
Grass silage                                        180                   180
Mixed Concentrate                                 1,450                 3,500
Milk replacer                                    12,500                14,500
Grazing Fees
Beef cattle    (per head)                            50
Sheep           (per head)                           15



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Table 7
Page 5
E. Agro-Industrial Outputs and Raw Materials
Financial           Economic
(Lei/ton) 1/        (Lei/ton) 2/
Outputs
White flour                                         2,764                 6,910
Semi-white flour                                    2,487                6,220
Wheat bran                                            524                   524
Wheat residuals                                       650                   650
Pre-packed extra corn flour                         2,597                 6,490
High quality corn flour                             2,164                 5,410
Corn germ                                           1,465                1,465
Corn flour for animal feed                          1,320                3,300
Corn bran                                             500                   500
Corn residuals                                        200                   200
Granulated sugar                                    8,100                8,200
Molasses for alcohol                                1,200                 1,200
Molasses for consumption                              390                   390
Storage Fees (per year)
White cheese                                        1,416                 1,416
Fermented cheese                                    2,358                2,358
Butter                                              1,752                1,752
Ice cream                                           5,212                5,212
Grain                                                 150                   150
Raw Material Inputs
(See Crop Outputs)



ROMANIA                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 8
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Analysis and Sensitivity
FRR Sensitivity for Alternative Assumptions
Total Invest-    Financial Rate        Investment Cost Change         Operating Margin Change
ment  Cost        of Return (FRR)                        Switching                Switching
(M Lei)             (Base Case)        +10%             Value 1/       -10%       Value 1/
(%)           (%)                  (%)         (%)           (-)
I. CROP DEVELOPMENT
Farm Mechanization          1892                     22            20                  +69          .5          -6
Soil Erosion Control         617                      9             8                  -30           8         +20
Vineyard Modernization      42.2                      6             5                  -48           1         +13
Vineyard Establishment      96.0                     11            10                  -10           9         +10
II.  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Pasture Improvement          244                   less than 0    -                    -            -          -
Dairy Farm Modernization    143                      40            37                  561          37
Private Livestock Credits   300                      70            63                 +412          59         -60
III.  AGRO-INDUSTRY EXPANSION
Sugar Mill                   582.7                    8            7                   -24           7        +32
Flour Mill                    16.1                   26           23                   +98          23        -49
Grain Storage (flat)          27.5                    6             5                  -31           5        +44
Grain Storage (silo)          81.8                    8             7                  -23           7        +30
Cold Storage                  38.3                    9            8                   -15           8        +18
1/  Switching Value is the percentage change in the component required to yield an FRR of 12%.                               X



ANNEX 3
Table 9
ROMANIA
MOLDOvA AGRICULTIJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fesults of the Ecornomic Analysis
Sensitivity Analyses
ERRs for the possnoLe Changes 7nai7tea BeLow:
Net Present Value       Economic Rate of Return               Investment Costs              Oitg 2/i                         implementation Deay_of 1 Yeof
(tNPV at 9%)                     (ERR)                                    Switching                      Switching               and cost overrun of
Base Case                     Base Case                 +10%              Value  1   -lo%                Value  1/              _                10%
(M Lei)                          (%)                     ((                            (%)
I. CROP DEVELOPMENT
Farm Mechanization                      6,570                            32                     30                +258           0                   -6                    6               6
Soil Erosion Control                       307                           16                     14                  +58         14                  -37                   14              12
Vineyard Improvements                       78'                          26                     24                 +189         19                  -26                   16              15
6,955                           30                     28                 4233          3                    3                    7               6
II. LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Pasture Improvement                       965                            4°                     38                +365          35                 -54                   28               27
Dairy Farm Modernization                   402                           38                     35                 +326         35                  -77                  31               29
Individual Livestoch Credits             1,977                           47                     43                +361          41                 -61                   32               30
3,344                           44                      40)               -357         38                  -60                  31               29
TII. AGRO-INDUSTRY EXPANSION
Sugar Mill                                  73                           12                     10                  +17         10                 -14                    9                8
Flour Mill                                  65                           50                     46                +417          46                  -81                  38               36
Grain Storage (Flat)                        17                           18                     16                  +64         16                  -39                  15               13
Grain Storage (Silo)                        20                           13                      11                 +27         11                  -21                  11                9
Cold Storage                                 2                           10                       9                   -+6        9                  -6                     8               7
177                           13                     12                 +33         11                  -25                   11  .            10
IV. OVERALL PROJECT                         10476                            31                     33                 +228         11                  -11                  10                9
1/ Switching Valule is the percentage change in the component required to yield an ERR of 9%.
2/ Operating margin is the difference between the benefit and the operating cost streams.



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Table 10
ROMANIA
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
World Market Prices for Main Internationally Tradeable Commodities
1980           1990
(1981 US$/ton) (1981 US$/ton)
Grapes, Summer Table (FOB Eastern Europe) 1/                 490            470
Apples, Table quality (FOB Eastern Europe) 1/                380            375
Pears, Table quality (FOB Eastern Europe) 1/                 630            630
Wheat, CWRS (FOB Canada) 2/                                  204            263
Wheat Flour (Canada) 2/                                      335            431
Maize, US No. 2 (FOB Gulf) 2/                                133            217
Soyabeans, US (CIT  Rotterdain) 2/                           316            468
Soyabean Oil, Crude (FOB Holland) 2/                         637            815
Soyabean Meal, (CIF Rotterdam) 2/                            279            443
Sugar, ISA (FOB Carribean) 2/                                674            436
Beef (Australia)2/                                          2130           2380
Lamb (FOB Eastern Europe) 3/                               3,350          3,740
Urea, bagged (FOB Europe) 2/                                 237            301
TSP (FOB US Gulf) 2/                                         192            245
Muriate of Potash (FOB Vancouver) 2/                         124            122
Fuel, Crude Oil (OPEC FOB Price per barrel) 2/                32.5           44.6
1/  FAO Trade Year Book: Romanian export statistics through 1979, adjusted
for price escalation between 1979 and 1981.
2/ World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department, June 23, 1981.
3/ Carcass equivalent with bone, 70% lamb and 30% mutton. Average of prices
FOB Hungary, Yugoslavia, and Bulgaria. 1990 price projected in relation to
trend in World Bank indicator price for beef.



M)LDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT POJECT
1990 Projected Border Price Structure for the Economic Analysis
(Expresse   n  onsant         Currency
Projected      International Romanian    Quality         Domestic    Domeetic        Processing    Projected        Market          Market
Indicator      Shippi g and  Border        Adjustment  Tranport,  Processing    Conversion    Farm or               lpocation       Location
Price          Haudlinig      Price        Factor        Randling &  & Packaging       Ratio         Factory Gate  for              for lomnian
Ad uatment    Equivelerit                 Losses         Costs                        Border Price  Indiestor        Product                F-ritv
(US$/ra tonl)  (u57iiton) a t                - (S)       (Eei/Kg)      (Lei/Kg)                                                                            Par itiyKg)
Grapes (Table quality)                470            -             7.1           100          -1.0          -0.2            100           5.9           E. Europe       W1.Zurope//id. Eft   Export
Apples (Table quality)                375                          5.6            90          -0.7          - 0.1           100           4.3            E. urope       W. urope/Mid- .fet   Export
Pears (Table quality)                630             -             9.5           90           -0.8          - 0.1          100            7.6           B. urope        W. urope/Mid. Eat   Export
Wheat                                 263            +20           4.2            95          -0.2            -             100           3.8    Thunder Bay Canada   . Europe/Yugoslavia Export
Wheat Flour                           431            +28           6.9           -            _       -                     -             -       7hunder Bay CAnada
Malze                                217             +25           3.6           95           -0.2            -            100            3.2           U.s. Guf        E.Europe/YugoslAvia Export
Soyabeann                            468             i31           7.5          100           +0.2            -             100           7.7            Rotterdam      Romania                Import
Sunflower t3eed                       465            -30           6.5          100           -0.2            -             -             6.3            Rotterdam      Romnis                 Eport 
Sugar                                 436            +46           7.2           100                        +1.0            100           8.2            Carribean      BoAmnia               Import
6/
Heef                                 2380            -                           156          -0.5          +1.5             52           29.5          Australia       Europe/Mid.Rast        Export
lamb                                3740             -            56.1           100          -0.5          +1.5            52            29.7          Australia       .E.urope/Mid.ftat   Erport
Urea                                  301            +6             4.6         100           -0.2          -0.2            -              4.2          Borope          Mid.F.at              Export
TSP                                   245            +18             3.9         100          -0.2           -               -             3.7           U.S. Golf      Mid. E8t              Export
Muriate of Potash                     122            +12            2.0          100          +0.1                   -                     2.1          Vancouver       Romania               Import
Diesel Fuel                            44.6 8/        +3 8/          6.2  ,      t            +l.0 La I-                                   7.2 I3     '   xope          Roman a               lmport
8$ 1.o 1, _eJ 15.0                                                                                                               ---
1/  fiei lved in  -elation to projected prices for soyabean oil and meal, assumitig ratios of 0.99 and 0.74, respectively, for sunflower oil and meal prices sad ssuming crushing mrgin of
10X and processing ratios of 0.35 for sunflower seed oil and 0.55 for p-llets.
/ Iiternial distribution, tranisport anid handling costs to retail markets assumed equal for sported or domestically produced sugar.
3/  i,teluiatiorial market price is for bulk siga , exfacto -y price I  far euga  in 50 kg bags.  Packaging costs l 15% of price for sugar in 50 kg bags.
II/  Romanian baet' export prices, for largely frozent carcasses and carcass quarte s, have maintained a premium of about 56% over the World Bank Indicator Price (fob Australia).
5/  H.t value  nomprises valoe of by-products (5,0 Aaii/Kg dresaed carcass) less costs of slaughtering and export pecking (3.5 L.ei/Kg dressed carceass).
O/  I/rice per Kg liveweight.
7/  I)Oumsti, A,eewrfneat transport, handlinig and slaughtering unit coats and slaughtering yield (processing ratio) assumed same as for beef.
8/ Crude oil price In US$ par barrel
9/ Diesel fuel price in lie per liter (35X over the CIT crude otl price)
10/  Baoed on domestic delivery charges and trading margin for gas oil In V. Germany



- 80 -
APPRAISAL OF                            Annex 4
MOLDOVA AGRICULTUlRAL CREDIT PROJECT
ROMANIA
Selected Documents and Working Papers Available in the Pro_ect File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on Romania
A-1 Investment Law, 1980 - Romania
A-2 Law of Finance, 1979 - Romania
A-3  Law of the Plan for the Development of Agriculture and Food Industry over
the 1981-85 Period - Romania. June 30-July 1, 1981
A-4 Law of the Single National Plan for Romania's Economic and Social Development
over the 1981-85 Period. June 30-July 1, 1981. Romania.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1 Project Preparation Report. Preliminary Progress for Regional DevelopmEint -
Moldova. 2 Volumes. Institute of Studies and Design in Agriculture anc
Food Industry Constructions, Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry,
Romania. December 1980.
B-2 Decree on production, contract, and procurement prices of some agricultural
products.  Official Bulletin of Socialist Republic of Romania, December 26,
1980.
C. World Bank Appraisal Mission Working Papers
C-1  Project Area
C-2  Primary Production
C-3 Land Amelioration
C-4 Farm Mechanization
C-5 Storage and Agroindustries
C-6 Economic Evaluation
C-7 Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry (BAFI)
D. General Files
D-1 Background Information Tables
D-2 Order No. 109 on technical and economic ncrms for crops and livestock



- 81 -
ROMANIA
APPRAISAL OF MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982              1983               1984               1985               1986
Description                                                                                               
1   2    3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
1. EROSION CONTROL
1982- 45,390 ha               w    _   _   _    _          _   _   -   _   _   _   -    _   _   _
1983-62,105 ha                      ii is. u Its  _   _   _   _   _   _   _
1984-34,845 ha                         UU                     it L_ L_   _       _   _
2. PRIMARY PRODUCTION
-Establishment of Vineyards
1983- 180 ha                         I         - _   _   _   _   _         - _   _   _
1984-265 ha                                        _   l -  _         _        - -            _  _  _                 -
-- Modernization of Vineyards
1983 -480 hats
1984-720 ha                                                    LU Big _ _   _
-  CAP-Dairy Farm
Modernization (18 Farms)    |            ti  via                               -
- Pasture Improvement
1983- 6,650 ha
1984- 37,700 ha
- Individual Sector Operations
1982- 3,800
1983 - 3,800
1984 - 3,900
3. AGRO-INDUSTRIES
Sugar Mill
Grain Silo (2)
Flat G rain Stores (3)
Cheese Cold Store
Flour Mili
KEY:
1 11i11116    Preparatory Works, including Approval of Subloans, Preparation of Documents, Final Design,
Advertising and Evaluation of Tender Documents, Award and Signing of Contract
_mmonampimi  Implementation, Construction and Installation of Equipment and Staff Appointment
World Bank - 23113






IBRD 15867
)2'                                    27'                                                                  AUGUST 1981
U.           c            C            D                                       ROMANiNI A
APPRAISAL OF
MOLDOVA AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Project area boundary
Project Components:
     Soii erosion control schemes
Modernization of dairy farms
Vineyards
Sugar mills
TOS                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cold store
Flour mill
Grain silos
Grain stores
Elevations in meters:
vV 01_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1250- 2000
S   Uticen HE'rl                                                          Primary roads
Secondary roads
Railways
- ----Rivers
T,rguFrom s  kl  \           ®    i~~udet capitals
23 =lacaoi                                        -- =- - Judet boundaries
4kX" 32                                                                                               International boundaries
47'-
0    3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<C                                                               1     0 3        0 5
\  u  s  s v t ,y4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                         the\ co  <T>  nvttenence of tuhe readers of  4&
rici~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                 h eot ~wihI satce
Bacb                                                          h   on ti map
Co/\>_>_</;m.nest                                                   o4 M edot,ha h
Tr aOpttn ofasuc boos,..,daby M
2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~.1 -s W.I,l .
x  Sb  L GAB  IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h                                     ft.d-~    6
Boctrucosl*  B  U   A  U                          Br6iIa *~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  M6ci~th Iptt 6, ti  w~
46'  Tlrgu ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *                                              ii /                           ule
_____________________  To 8cc us     To Ed or             To &rodo       28  - ~~~~ThnTd-.-t-s se -d th



