OFFICI        LOAN NUMBER 2077 RO
LDOCUMTS
Loan Agreement
(Moldova Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
Dated                              , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2077 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI INDUSTRIE
ALIMENTARA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Borrower intends to contract loans from foreign
lending institutions up to an approximate aggregate amount equiva-
lent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) to assist
further in the financing of the said Project.
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Romania" and "Guarantor" both mean the Socialist
Republic of Romania;
(b) "MAFI" means the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry of Romania;
(c) "DELIF" means the Directorate for Exploitation of
Land Reclamation Works in MAFI, established by Decree No. 298/1979
of the Council of State of Romania;


﻿-2-
(d) "Foreign Trade Bank" means the Romanian Bank for Foreign
Trade, established by Law No. 16/1968 of Romania;
(e) "ROMAGRIMEX" means the Romanian Foreign Trade Enter-
prise of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry of Romania;
established under Law No. 11 of 1971 of Romania, and operating
under Decision No. 938 of August 14, 1972 of the Council of
Ministers of Romania, as amended from time to time;
(f) "BAFI-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower to a Loan Beneficiary for an Investment
Project;
(g) "Loan Beneficiary" means a State agricultural enter-
prise, DELIF, In agricultural production cooperative, a fGod
enterprise, a cereal marketing enterprise, a station for agri-
cultural machinery, a pasture enterprise or an individual producer
to which a BAFI-loan is proposed to be made or has been made;
(h) "Investment Project" means a project for any of the
investments included in Parts A through G of the Project and to be
carried out by a Loan Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a
BAFI-Loan;
(i) "Lei" means the national currency of Romania;
(j) "Charter" means the Charter of the Borrower approved by
Decree No. 55 of 1970 of the Council of State of Romania, approved
by Law No. 15 of 1970 of Romania, as amended from time to time;
and
(k) "Projec: Area" means the area comprising of the follow-
ing six judets: Neamt, Bacau, Vrancea, Botosani, lasi, Vaslui.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of


﻿-3-
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, on
account of disbursements made by the Borrower under BAFI-loans for
Investment Projects included in Parts A through G of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Foreign Trade Bank is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, contracts for goods and services required for the
Project, selected by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be
awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be
carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-4-
with appropriate agricultural, engineering, financial and adminis-
trative practices as follows:
(a) The Borrower shall be responsible for supervising the
execution of the Project, including the procurement of the goods
and services required therefor;
(b) MAFI shall have the responsibility for the overall
coordination of the carrying out of the Project (except Part
C thereof) and for the Project-related activities of the other
departments and agencies of the guarantor under the Project
(except under Part C thereof).
(c) DELIF shall have the responsibility for .the overall
coordination of the carrying out of Part C of the Project and
for the Project-related activities of the other departments and
agencies of the guarantor under Part C of the Project; and
(d) DELIF shall make or cause to be made a timely supply
of the general engineering services required for Part C of the
Project, and make timely arrangements with the appropriate con-
struction organizations of Romania as required for the civil works
and the installations included in Part C of the Project; and
(e) ROMAGRIMEX shall make suitable arrangements for the
procurement of the goods and services referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For each Investment Project, the Borrower
shall make a BAFI-loan to the Loan Beneficiary that is to carry
out such Investment Project for all or part of the cost of such
Investment Project.
(b) Each BAFI-loan shall bear interest at a rate which
shall be equal to the interest rate then charged by the Borrower
in respect of loans for the same type of investments and shall
be repaid over 'such period, after such grace period, as shall be
consistent with the expected implementation period and yields of
such Investment Project and the repayment capacity of the Loan
Beneficiary.
(c) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, each BAFI-loan will be made on terms whereby
the Borrower shall have rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right of the Borrower


﻿-5-
to: (i) require the Loan Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, agricultural, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (A) notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement, the goods and services to be financed out of
the proceeds of the BAFI-loan shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therellr
and, in the case of services, of their quality and competence c
the parties rendering them, and (B) such goods and services shal'
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect and enable representatives of the Bank, if the Bank
shall so request, to examine, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of the Loan Bene-
ficiary; and (v) suspend or terminate the right of the Loan
Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the BAFI-loan upon
failure by such Loan Beneficiary to perform its obligations under
its contract with the Borrower.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to the Loan Beneficiary in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
importation into the territory of Romania, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan to be
used exclusively for -the Project.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Achievement of the Purposes of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Bank and the Borrower agree that,
in order to realize the purposes of the Project, it shall be
necessary that:
(i) the Loan Beneficiaries will be supplied with
agricultural, technical, advisory and research
services and agricultural financing and marketing
facilities, all as required to make optimal produc-
tive use of the investments made under -the Project;
(ii) MAFI shall make available (A) adequate quantities
of chemical fertilizers and adequate transport
facilities for Investment Projects to be carried
out under Part E of the Project, and (B) adequate
numbers of farm machinery and equipment, together
with the required spare parts and fuel, for Invest-
ment Projects to be carried out under Part A of the
Project;
(iii) the facilities established under the Project will
be designed, operated and maintained with due
regard to ecological, environmental and safety
factors, and in accordance with sound administra-
tive, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices; and
(iv) the facilities constructed or installed under Part
C of the Project shall be operated and maintained
by DELIF in close cooperation with the entities
cultivating farms in the Project Area, in accord-
ance with appropriate agricultural, engineering and
administrative practices.
(b) The Borrower shall, to the extent that it is authorized
under the laws of Romania, ensure that the requirements set
forth in this Section will be met.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Management and Operations of the Borrower;
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall manage and conduct its
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate admini-
strative and financial standards and practices and in accordance
with the Charter.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) It is not the practice of the Borrower to
create liens as security for debt. Accordingly, the Borrower
represents that at the date of this Agreement no lien exists on
any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b) In the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a
lien shall be created on any of the Borrower's assets as security
for any debt, the Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create the
lien, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if the lien shall
be created by law, the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the
Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan.
Section 5.04. The Bank and the Borrower agree that in
carrying out the provisions of this Agreement the Borrower shall
take such measures as shall be necessary according to the National
Plan for Economic and Social Development of Romania and the
applicable laws in order to achieve the purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Cooperation and Information;
Financial Data
Section 6.01. The Bank and the Borrower shall cooperate
fully to ensure that the purposes of the Loan will be accom-
plished. To that end:


﻿-8-
(a) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time at
the request of either party exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the bene-
fits derived from the Project, the performance of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the fulfillment of the
requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan, and the Borrower
shall enable the Bank's representatives to exchange views with
representatives of the Loan Beneficiaries, MAFI and the other
departments, agencies and entities concerned of Romania with
regard to the Project, the benefits derived from the Project, and
the fulfillment of the requirements set forth in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower shall obtain from the Loan Beneficiaries,
MAFI and the other departments, agencies and entities of Romania
concerned with the Project, and furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree;
(c) the Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, (A) accounts adequate to independently record all Project
expenditures and Project-related financial transactions, and
(B) procedures adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan or any BAFI-loan, and to disclose their use
in the Project; and (ii) shall furnish to the Bank within forty-
five calendar days after each calendar quarter, a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree,
on the progress of the Project during such quarter;
(d) the Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit and examine the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of tho Loan or any BAFI-loan, the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and the accounts of
the Borrower referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section and
the records and documents relating to the Project of the Loan
Beneficiary, MAFI and of the departments, agencies and entities of
Romania responsible for the Project or any part thereof;
(e) the Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each of its fiscal years,


﻿-9-
certified copies of its financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statement,-, as
agreed between the Bank and the Borrower), and un:il the com-
pletion of the Project certified copies of its accounts referred
to in paragraph (c) of this Section, for such fiscal year, both
the statements and the accounts to be in the form in which they
shall be audited; (ii) submit such statements and accounts
including all records supporting certificates referred tc in
paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to an independent
audit conducted, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by the Ministry of Finance of
Romania, and the report of such audit by said auditor, of such
scope and in such detail as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
agree, including a separate opinion by said auditor in respect of
the said certificates showing whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn on the basis of such certificates have been used for the
purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the before-mentioned
financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(f) the Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time
furnish to each other such additional information as the other
party shall reasonably request with regard to the progress of the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the
BAFI-loans, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds,
the operations, resources and expenditures of the Loan Benefi-
ciary, the benefits derived from the Project and the general
status of the Loan;
(g) upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price; and
(h) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank
and the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank and
the Borrower shall reasonably agree, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bank and the
Borrower of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The Bank and the Borrower shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the
service thereof or the performance by either party of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The date     a       ml   #112, is hereby
specified for the purpose of Section 2.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banca pentru Agricultura si
Industrie Alimentara
Strada Smirdan No. 3
Bucharest, Romania


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
AGROBANK                           11622
Bucharest
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANCA PENTRU AGRICULTURA SI
INDUSTRIE ALIMENTARA
By                              Rereenatv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Part A of the                 61,000,000       45%
Project
(2) Part B (i) of                 10,500,000       25%
the Project
(3) Part B (ii) to                 3,000,000       25%
(v) of the Project
(4) Part C of the                  9,000,000       20%
Project
(5) Part D of the                  4,000,000       20%
Project
(6) Part E of the                  3,500,000       20%
Project
(7) Part F of the                  2,500,000       25%
Project
(8) Part G of the                  1,500,000       20%
Project
TOTAL         95,000,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for
goods or services supplied from the territory and in the currency
of any country other than Romania; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of Romania and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of Romania.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(b) disbursements under BAFI-loans, the loan contracts of
which were signed before the date of this Agreement;
(c) any BAFI-loan, unless the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account for the said Investment Project;
(d) any BAFI-loan for an Investment Project costing more
than Lei 70 million, unless the Bank's prior consent to such
BAFI-loan shall have been obtained; when submitting a BAFI-loan
to the Bank for its consent, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, together with a description of the Loan
Beneficiary concerned and an appraisal of the Investment Project
concerned, in such form and containing such information as
the Bank and the Borrower shall agree, and the proposed terms and
conditions of the BAFI-loan;
(e) the BAFI-loan under Part B (i) of the Project, unless
the Bank shall have been furnished with a detailed investment
study of the Investment Project together with the application
referred to in paragraph (d) above and the Bank's consent has been
obtained for the Investment Project after review of the said study
and the operations of selected existing sugar mills in Romania;
and
(f) any BAFI-loans under Part E of the Project, unless the
Bank shall have been furnished with detailed guidelines for
grazing control measures and their supervision, and a schedule for
training of personnel of entities operating the pastures, for
review.


﻿- 14 -
4.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of foreign expenditure for any BAFI-loans under the Project will
be accompanied by full documentation.
5.   Each request for withdrawal from the Loan Account in respect
of local expenditures for any BAFI-loans under the Project will be
accompanied by a certificate issued by the Borrower by which the
Borrower certifies that the disbursement on account of which the
withdrawal is requested has been made for an Investment Project
duly approved by an authority competent to give such approval
under Romanian law and the local expenditures have been incurred
in respect of goods, works and services for the said Investment
Project. The certificate shall be in such form as shall have been
agreed upon between the Bank and the Borrower.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item required for the Project and to be
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Schedule 4 of this Agreement is inconsistent with such
procedures, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the 1981-85 National Plan for
Economic and Social Development of Romania and consists of a
3-year program for the judets (districts) of Neamt, Bacau,
Vrancea, Botosani, lasi and Vaslui, to finance the following:
Part A:   Farm Mechanization
Purchase of:
(i) about 6,500 tractors of about 45 to 180 horsepower;
(ii) about 1,500 harvesters and combine-harvesters; and
(iii) related equipment, including trailers, forage havesters,
fertilizer and manure spreaders, disk harrows of
not less than 55 kilograms per blade, cultivators,
ploughs including reversible mold board ploughs for
increasing agricultural production.
Part B:   Agroindustries
Construction and equipping of:
(i) one sugar mill with a processing capacity of 2,000 tons
of sugar-beet per 24 hours;
(ii) one flour mill with a processing capacity of about 25
tons of wheat or 25 tons of corn per 24 hours;
(iii) one cold store with a capacity of about 3,000 tons, for
storing cheese, butter and ice cream;
(iv) two grain silos, each with a capacity of between 22,000
and 34,000 tons, for storing maize, wheat and barley;
and
(v) three flat grain stores with a total capacity of about
25,000 tons.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:   Soil Erosion Control Works
Carrying out of works for soil erosion control covering
an area of about 142,000 hectares, including construction of
terraces, banquet terraces, grassland buffer strips and check
structures; and the provision of maintenance equipment for such
works.
Part D:   On Farm Investment Projects for Individual Producers
On farm Investment Projects by individual prrducers for
purchase of dairy heifers, sheep breeding stock and other goods
and materials needed for agricultural production.
Part E:   Pasture Improvement Works
Carrying out of works for the improvement of about 44,000
hectares of pasture, consisting of land clearing construction of
access roads and watering points, land preparation, manuring,
fertilization and liming, reseeding and oversowing.
Part F:   Dairy Farms Modernization
Modernization and renovation of about 18 existing dairy farms
of Agricultural Production Cooperatives for increasing their
capacity to an average of about 680 cows and followers.
Part G:   Vineyards
Establishment of about 450 hectares of rainfed vineyards
and modernization of about 1,200 hectares of existing vineyards.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February I and August 1
beginning August 1, 1985
through   August 1, 1996                      3,960,000
On February 1, 1997                                3,920,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  2.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  4.65%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                            8.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                           10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                 11.60%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.A  Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender, a general procurement notice,
in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to
be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Identical or similar items to be procured for the Project
shall be grouped together, whenever practicable, for the purpose
of bidding and procurement, and such grouping of items shall
be subject to agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the
bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the evalua-
tion of the bids and (iii) the cost of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 20 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Romania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Romania if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Romania equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 21 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
In regard to the goods procured pursuant to paragraph A.1 of
this Schedule:
(a) Before bids or price quotations are invited, ROMAGRIMEX
shall furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid or quote prices and the specifications and, in
the case of invitations to bid., other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modi'ication to the bidding documents or the invita-
tions to quote prices shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders or suppliers.
(b) Promptly after the bids or price quotations have been
received, ROMAGRIMEX shall inform the Bank of the names of the
bidders or prospective suppliers and the respective amounts of the
bids or prices quoted, and shall indicate those items for which
only one bid was received.
(c) After bids or price quotations have been evaluated,
ROMAGRIMEX shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder or the supplier to which
the contract is intended to be awarded and the reason for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids or the price quotations received, together
with the recommendations for award and such other information as
the  Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ROMAGRIMEX and state
the reasons for such determination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids or price quotations were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 22 -
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, ROMAGRIMEX shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform ROMAGRIMEX and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of LA--, 198 1.
FOR SECRETARY


