PID
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                AWorld Free of Poverty
iAnofoShop
lTh WorW i n,k
Report No AB44
Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Project Name              INDONESIA-Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan
Region                    East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                    General industry and trade sector (100%)
Project ID                P076271
Supplemental Project
Borrower(s)               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Implementing Agency       OFFICE OF COORDINATING MINISTER FOR ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
Address                   (OCMEA)
Address Gedung Utama Dep Keuangan (#502), JI Lapangan Banteng Timur
2-4, Jakarta 10710 Indonesia
Contact Person Mr Jinny Katuuk, Deputy il Coordinating Ministry for Economic
Affairs
Tel 62-21-351-1462   Fax 62-21-351-1644     Email jinny ck@ centrin
net id
KKPPI Secretariate/PPITA-PMU
Address Menara Kebon Sirih- Lt.15- Room 1503, Jalan Kebon Sirih 17-19,
Jakarta Pusat
Contact Person Dr Wahyu Utomo, Project Manager-PPITA
Tel 62-21-3983-6556   Fax 62-21-3983-7053     Email
ppita_id@yahoo com
Environment Category      B
Date PID Prepared         April 17, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date       March 18, 2003
Bank Approval Date        May 22, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Background: Indonesia has long recognized the vital role of basic infrastructure in enabling and
supporting sustained and rapid economic development, and in improving public welfare and
opportunities for the poor. This is reflected in the high priority accorded to the expansion,
rehabilitation and-somewhat more recently-sound maintenance of transport, energy, urban and
other infrastructure under six successive Five-Year Development Plans (Repelitas) and the
current National Development Program (Propenas 2000-2004).
For many years infrastructure provision had remained--with few exceptions--the exclusive
preserve of government and state-owned enterprises (SOEs). By the late 1 980s, however, it was
clearly evident that the public sector was no longer able to finance all needed investments in new



2
PID
infrastructure capacity and, moreover, that government agencies and poorly performing public
corporations lacked the managerial capacity to deliver services to the standards increasingly
demanded by users. Indonesia accordingly embarked upon parallel programs to promote private
investment in new infrastructure projects and to reform and privatize its many (160+) SOEs.
The first major private infrastructure project was the Cawang-Tanjung Priok section of Jakarta's
inner ring toll road, construction of which commenced in the mid- 1980s. This originated with an
unsolicited proposal from a politically-connected group that was able to drive the concession
negotiation process and secure financing largely from public sector sources. A far more
significant step was taken in, the power sector in 1990, when Government solicited proposals for
Indonesia's first Independent Power Producer (IPP) project, a 1,200 MW coal-fueled station in
East Java. The Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for Paiton I was signed in early 1994 and
financial closing was achieved in April 1995, with debt financing provided by a combination of
export credit agencies and commercial lenders. Many other private infrastructure projects, most
unsolicited, were by then already in the pipeline and--when the economic crisis struck in the
second half of 1997--Indonesia had committed to long-term power purchase agreements with 26
independent power producers and awarded concessions for numerous toll road, telecoms, water
supply, and other projects. In little over three years from the Paiton I PPA signature, over $20
billion in investment commitments had been secured for private infrastructure projects,
dominated by electricity ($10.2 bn), telecoms ($8.4 bn), and transport ($2.1 bn). In stark
contrast, the SOE reform and privatization program had moved very slowly. Nine years after its
launch, GOI had sold only minority stakes in only a handful of SOEs, of which only two (Telkom
and Indosat) were infrastructure providers.
In summary, Indonesia's strategy for involving the private sector in infrastructure provision
centered mainly on the development of new "greenfield" projects rather than on transformation
of public infrastructure enterprises. Implementing projects took precedence over improving
policies and regulations, with the eagerness shown by private equity investors and lenders
helping to dissuade Government from pursuing much-needed structural reforms. Little progress
was made towards improving pricing policies and eliminating untargeted subsidies, or to
introducing competitive market structures and establishing sound regulatory arrangements. The
procedures by which private partners were appointed were generally opaque, with the vast
majority of projects being either unsolicited or otherwise awarded through non-transparent
processes to consortia with "politically connected" local partners.
Impacts of the Economic Crisis: Private infrastructure projects-and particularly those with
foreign financing--were quickly impacted as the Rupiah plunged. In September 1997, Keppres
39 of 1997 decreed that many major investment projects, including private infrastructure
schemes for which contracts had already been signed, were to be postponed or reviewed.
Subsequently, other private projects that had been cleared to proceed failed to reach financial
closing or were halted as their financing sources dried-up. Affordability concerns and mounting
social pressures caused Government to abandon automatic tariff adjustment mechanisms in the
power and telecoms sectors and defer other tariff increase proposals, thereby affecting the
commercial viability of private projects already in operation or close to completion. Agreements
for most operating and committed private projects-including all IPPs-were "re-opened", with
the subsequent renegotiations generally proceeding slowly. Sponsors generally accepted the need
to renegotiate, and several subsequently agreed to "close-out" their projects. However, a few



3
PID
opted for international arbitration and / or to claim under political risk insurance, and decisions to
date have so far favored the project sponsors.
The rate of growth in demand for infrastructure services is showing signs of picking-up as
Indonesia slowly emerges from the crisis,. However, severe constraints on the State Budget have
necessitated sharp cutbacks in the level of development spending, while most infrastructure
SOEs are in very poor financial shape. With the flow of new private investment for
infrastructure having all but ceased, there is little new infrastructure capacity currently under
construction while in some sectors-such as roads--existing assets are deteriorating as a result of
inadequate maintenance. This, coupled with the long lead-times for developing new capacity,
poses the risk that infrastructure constraints will impede restoration of rapid and sustainable
economic growth and limit the quality and coverage of public services for the poor.
Key Challenges: The public sector was unable to finance all needed infrastructure investments
before the crisis, and its capacity to do so now is much diminished. Unless Indonesia is prepared
to accept further deterioration in living standards, it will need to mobilize substantial new private
resources while striving to optimize the utilization and financial self-sustainability of existing
assets. Securing renewed private sector participation on reasonable terms will be extremely
difficult in the present environment, and will require Government to confront several difficult
and inter-related challenges. These can be grouped into four broad areas:
1. Restoring Indonesia's overall attractiveness to investors. The level of new investment in
Indonesia, and particularly new foreign direct investment, has slumped since the onset of the
crisis. While many other countries in the region also suffered badly during 1997/98,
Indonesia fell further and has since recovered more slowly due to a combination of factors
including political uncertainty, systemic corruption, a dysfunctional judicial system, and
sporadic social unrest and disorder. The magnitude of the challenges now facing
Government in seeking to attract new investment is starkly reflected in assessments that show
Indonesia as having one of the highest country risk ratings in the region, and being among the
most corrupt countries in the world.
2. Restoring Indonesia's attractiveness to infrastructure investors. Infrastructure projects are
characterized by their capital-intensity, long lead-times, long pay-back periods, and-in some
instances-social sensitivity. Globally, investor appetite for infrastructure opportunities is
likely to have been impacted by the fall-out from California's power crisis, the Enron
collapse, and the bursting of the G3 mobile telephony bubble. Even without these external
factors, Indonesia faces a much tougher task in persuading investors to commit to
infrastructure schemes than, say, to labor-intensive manufacturing (and even here the picture
remains somewhat bleak!). Meeting the challenge will require concerted action on several
fronts.
*   Tariff and Subsidy Reform: Tariffs in many infrastructure sectors remain well below the
levels needed for long-term commercial viability. A rapid transition to cost-covering
tariffs, coupled with mechanisms for delivering well targeted subsidies to the most needy,
is needed to restore fiscal sustainability and attract new private investment.
*   Modern Regulatory Frameworks: Heightened perceptions of country risk mean that
private investors and their lenders will be much more demanding as regards the clarity,
predictability, and credibility of regulatory frameworks. New models of arm's length



4
PID
regulation have been under study for some years, but decisions need to be taken, new
laws enacted, and new institutions put in place. As part of this process, the additional
regulatory uncertainties arising from regional autonomy need to be resolved.
*   Other Risk Mitigation Measures: Investors in new infrastructure projects in Indonesia
will likely demand some form of public support to mitigate country and project risks.
Even in ordinary circumstances, such support packages require careful design to avoid
expanding public exposure beyond prudent levels or undermining incentives for efficient
risk bearing. Formulating sound policy and strategy in the current circumstances will be
extremely challenging.
*   Procurement Processes: In order to provide comfort to prospective investors, help
rebuild the legitimacy of private infrastructure in the eyes of local stakeholders, and help
ensure the best terms possible for the country, private partners will need to be chosen
through fully transparent, competitive processes so as to preclude later claims that
projects were awarded corruptly.
*   Disputes on Existing Private Projects: Until disputes concerning existing projects are
satisfactorily resolved, Indonesia will find it difficult to persuade mainstream private
investors, lenders and insurers to return. Moreover, the manner in which Indonesia
handles ongoing disputes on private infrastructure projects may have more general
implications for future foreign direct investment flows.
*   Link with SOE Privatization: To realize the full potential benefits of private
participation, Government will need to accelerate the restructuring and privatization of
infrastructure SOEs. In addition to generating resources for the Government, this will
help enable effective competition and enhance efficiency and service quality. It can also
help lock-in cost-covering retail tariffs, thus ensuring investments in new wholesale
facilities--such as power plants-will have credit-worthy customers.
*   Preparation of soundprojects. Many of the projects that were offered to the private
sector in the past were poorly prepared and, in some instances, ill-chosen. In seeking to
persuade private investors to return quickly, Indonesia will need to be able to offer well
conceived and prepared schemes that are amenable to early and rapid implementation.
*   Building institutional capacities: Concerted efforts will be needed to strengthen the
capacity of the central and regional agencies and enterprises charged with developing and
implementing policy and regulatory reforms and with dealing with prospective private
investors. Few central government officials and SOE staff currently have relevant
training, in part because there are few, if any, quality programs offered in Indonesia.
Even fewer have sound practical experience as most of the private infrastructure deals
concluded pre-crisis were concentrated in a few sectors and originated with unsolicited
proposals. And the situation is worse at the sub-national level.
3. Building domestic financing capacities: To reduce the impact of currency risks, Indonesia
will need to strengthen its domestic capacity to finance infrastructure projects. Success with
financial sector restructuring will help, but there may also be a need and opportunity to
develop new infrastructure-specific financing mechanisms and instruments.
4. Building public acceptance of private infrastructure. There are continuing indications of
strong resistance to restoring private investment in infrastructure, both from within the public
sector and from civil society. Three underlying causes can be identified:
*   Private participation requires sector departments and infrastructure SOEs to accept a



5
PID
paradigm shift in their roles and in the way they do business. It also requires effective
inter-agency co-operation and co-ordination, areas where Indonesia has traditionally not
been strong. Experience with the privatization program suggests that securing the needed
cultural changes will be a slow and difficult process in the absence of concerted efforts to
anticipate and deal with problems.
* Closely linked with this, involving the private sector in traditional public sector domains
through transparent processes will likely threaten vested interests by squeezing
opportunities for supplementing personal incomes or diverting funds for political ends.
* The public's perception of private infrastructure delivery has been colored by
vigorous--but often poorly-informed--debate on the failings of the power, toll-road, water
supply, and telecoms deals concluded during the Suharto era. This is reflected in the
negative stance of many civil society organizations, which in turn is open to exploitation
by those with vested interests in maintaining the status quo.
Recent achievements. The Government has recognized the importance of addressing these
challenges, and has prepared the draft of an Infrastructure "White Paper" which overviews
current status and issues in each of the major infrastructure sectors. A draft of this paper,
prepared by the Infrastructure Deputy Chairman of BAPPENAS, was presented at the annual
Consultative Group on Indonesia (CGI- donors forum) meeting in January of 2003 as a
discussion paper for further refinement based on additional sector studies and other inputs
expected. It is hoped that a "final" version of the paper will be ready for Cabinet discussion by
late 2003. One additional input to this process and to guide future Bank activities in the
infrastructure sectors is a planned AAA review of priority infrastructure issues in Indonesia
during the current Bank FY 03 (report to be completed by June 2003). This work has been
focused on power, transport, water supply, telecommunications and rural infrastructure sectors
due to resource constraints, but will provide valuable insights to the options for Bank and GOI
cooperation in "Averting The Coming Infrastructure Crisis in Indonesia", as the report is
tentatively titled. These reports will serve as a well-advanced starting point for the sector
assessments and strategy options work of the advisory teams to be mobilized by the project, and
facilitate the development of the Country Framework Assessment for PPI (per PPIAF guidelines
- see Annex 14) now incorporated in the draft TOR for the OCMEA advisory team. Addtionally,
GOI has already made significant progress in several areas, including:
*   Tariff and subsidy policy. The Government has announced its commitment to restoring the
power tariff to its pre-crisis US$ level by 2005. A series of substantial increases has already
been implemented, with the main brunt having so far fallen on large consumers, and a
targeted subsidy scheme has been introduced to protect very small residential customers.
Tariffs have also been increased in several other sectors, including--after much
delay--fixed-line telephone services. However, the picture is far from uniform and--for
example--toll road tariffs have not increased since 1992.
*   Regulatory reform: Presidential Decree 7 of 1998 (Keppres 7), issued in January 1998,
provided an important first step towards establishing a overarching framework for private
participation in infrastructure projects, including on matters such as the choice of projects to
be offered for private participation, the processes for selecting private partners and dealing
with unsolicited proposals, and basic principles relating to provision of public supports.
Achievements at the sector level include:
o Telecommunications: A new Telecommunications Law, passed in 1999, has enabled



6
PID
more effective competition by removing the "exclusivities" and other special rights
previously enjoyed by the two partially privatized SOEs, PT Telkom and PT Indosat.
o Oil and Gas: A new Oil and Natural Gas Law, approved by the DPR in October 2001,
provides among others for the removal of Pertamina's downstream monopoly and the
establishment of an independent regulatory body whose key duties will include regulation of
gas transportation infrastructure.
o Electric Power: The DPR has also adopted a new Electricity Law in September 2002
that would enable bulk and retail competition and permit the vertical and horizontal
unbundling of PLN in line with the policies mapped out in the Government's August 1998
White Paper. The law also provides for the establishment of an independent regulatory
agency, and of a mechanism for channeling targeted subsidies and supports, although not yet
implemented.
o Water: The Bank-financed WATSAL sector policy reform initiative is supporting the
amendment of water resources legislation that would, inter alia, enable private participation
in water resources development. In September 2001 DKI Jakarta established Indonesia's first
urban water supply regulatory body and a number of municipalities, including Pekan Baru,
are also now exploring such arrangements.
o Transport: Government has recognized the need to revise existing modal laws for
Transport (Roads, Roads Traffic and Transport, Railways, Sea and Inland Waterway
Transport, and Civil Aviation) to align with the laws relating to regional autonomy and to
broaden the modalities for private participation, and preliminary discussions have started for
some sectors (e.g. maritime transport).
Infrastructure SOE Restructuring and Privatization. Progress on SOE reform and
privatization accelerated sharply in the period immediately following the onset of the crisis,
although it has since slowed again. A masterplan for SOE reform and privatization was
launched in December 1999 and several significant transactions were concluded shortly
thereafter, including sales of stakes in two international container terminal concession
companies (Jakarta and Surabaya) and of a further stake in PT Telkom. Political
commitment then faltered in the face of public opposition to privatization in general and
privatization of infrastructure SOEs in particular. Another private placement of shares in PT
Telkom was concluded in late 2001, and GOI is now completing arrangements for PT Indosat
to be majority private-owned as a result of a late-2002 tender and is acting to address the
serious concerns created by its failure to conclude the planned further privatization of Semen
Gresik in late 2001.
Inter-Agency Coordination. In June 2001 the Government established a Minister-level
Committee on Policy for the Acceleration of Infrastructure Development (KPPI Committee).
The Committee is chaired by the Coordinating Minister for Economic Affairs, and its other
members include the Ministers for Finance, National Planning (Bappenas), and the key
infrastructure sectors. KKPPI's duties include: (a) formulating policy and strategy for
accelerating infrastructure development, including through creating a climate conducive to
private investment and participation; (b) coordinating integration of plans and programs and
monitoring implementation of adopted policies and resolving emerging problems; and (c)
preparing an improved cross-sectoral regulation on public private partnerships to replace
Keppres 7. The Committee is assisted by a Secretariat and supported by a Sub-Committee
for Planning and Investment, both of which are already operational. Work on the revision of



7
PID
Keppres 7 is now well advanced.
2. Objectives
The project's development objective is to assist GOI develop and implement the policy and
regulatory reforms and build the institutional and social foundations needed to enable, promote
and facilitate efficient and sustainable large-scale private investment in infrastructure.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank brings to the project an unrivalled combination of global knowledge and expertize in
the broad area of private participation in infrastructure and in-depth understanding of Indonesia's
key infrastructure sectors and its experiences to date with private participation.
The Bank's Private Sector Advisory Services Department, through its Private Provision of Public
Services (PPPS) group, has rich experience in critically important sector policy areas--including
regulatory reform and regulatory agency development, public supports for private projects--and is
developing "tool kits" designed to provide practical guidance on PPI-related topics. The group
was the driving force behind the establishment of the multi-donor Public-Private Infrastructure
Advisory Facility (PPIAF) and is responsible, at arm's length, for the ongoing management of the
Facility. The PPPS group has long been involved in Indonesia, including through providing
guidance on the shaping of a cross-sectoral regulatory framework for private participation in
infrastructure that was ultimately issued as Keppres 7. It is intended that this important link
would be maintained during project preparation and implementation.
The Bank has been closely involved in supporting Indonesia's efforts to establish sound
overarching policies and strategies for private participation since the early 1990s, including
through the two TAP4I projects described earlier. It has also worked closely with Indonesia on
regional initiatives aimed at promoting PPI and, for example, in 1996 co-hosted with Bappenas
the Ministerial Level International Conference on Infrastructure Development (proceedings
published as "Frontiers of the Public-Private Interface in East Asia's Infrastructure" (Institute for
National Development Studies). The Bank has also has been actively involved in helping shape
the policy and regulatory reform agenda in all key infrastructure sectors, including transport
(roads, railways, ports), energy (power, domestic gas), urban (water supply, public transport,
solid waste), telecommunications, and water resources through both lending and ESW support
activities.
This combination of global and local and cross-cutting and sector-specific expertize enables the
Bank to provide effective support for the Project, a capacity that will be further enhanced by the
recent consolidation of EAP's Transport, Urban and Energy Sector Management Units into a
single Infrastructure Department, as well as the completion of the on-going Infrastructure AAA
work by June 2003, as noted previously.
ADB and USAID have and will continue to play very important roles in supporting Indonesia'is
efforts to promote private participation in infrastructure. ADB, along with USAID, has now
taken the lead in providing assistance on regulatory reform and private sector development in the
power sector, and has provided parallel assistance for the domestic gas sector. ADB has also
been active in promoting private sector participation in urban infrastructure development, and is



8
PID
considering to continue this support through a proposed Private Sector Participation (PSP)
Facility for Urban Infrastructure. It has also financed relevant technical assistance in the
transport sector. USAID has also been very active in the past in promoting reforms designed to
facilitate private provision of urban infrastructure (e.g., through the "PURSE" project), and
continues to provide limited and narrowly targeted support in the transport and telecoms sectors
through its "PEG" project. CIDA has financed technical assistance to Bappenas in the broad area
of infrastructure development policy, but as yet there are no firm plans for further support in this
area.
The project has been designed to complement, reinforce and integrate ongoing and planned
initiatives, including through helping to ensure that each of these activities is positioned within a
sound overall PSP strategy and that outputs and lessons emerging from them are properly
analyzed and disseminated.
4. Description
Overview
The project is designed around and to support two important and inter-linked initiatives by
Government to restore private investment in public infrastructure, namely:
*   the establishment of the KPPI Committee; and
*   the preparation and operationalizing of improved cross-sectoral policies, practices and
procedures for handling private participation in infrastructure provision.
The KPPI Committee is already operational and well advanced with drafting an improved
cross-sectoral regulation on PPI to replace Keppres 7.
The Project's core focus is on assisting the KPPI Committee to make timely and well-informed
decisions, on operationalizing the new cross-sectoral framework through supporting
sector-specific policy and regulatory reforms, on strengthening institutional capacities in areas
related to PPI, and on improving the quality and availability of information on PPI-related topics.
Also see Annex 12 for the Initial Project Work Plan. This will be accomplished through:
*   Cross-sectoral technical assistance and advisory services, including the development of a
country framework assessment for PPI policies;
*   Sector-specific technical assistance and advisory activities, including sectoral assessments of
PPI potential and strategy;
*   Capacity building, training assistance, and public information/education activities, and;
*   PMU support services.
The agencies that will be involved in the implementation of the project--notably the KPPI
Committee and key sector ministries--have limited expertise in the PPI area, but of necessity are
already being required to take decisions on important and complex issues (including the drafting
of the new Keppres 7). Accordingly the project will, as a top priority, support the recruitment of
"in-house" PPI advisors to assist these core agencies with their ongoing activities. Terms of
reference (TOR) for these advisory services and for high priority studies have been developed



9
PID
and reviewed during project appraisal. However, the urgency of mobilizing the "in-house"
advisory support will preclude the TORs for all envisaged activities being fully developed prior
to project start. It is accordingly intended that the TORs for many activities will be firmed-up
during the initial stages of project implementation with the assistance of the "in-house" advisors.
1. Cross-sectoral TA and Advisory Services
2. Sector-specific TA and advisory services
3. Capacity building and training
4. Incremental PMU support services @ 80%
Repayment of PPF Advance
5. Financing
Total (US$m)
BORROWER                 $1.90
IBRD                     $17.10
IDA
Total Project Cost       $19 00
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of three years and involve several central
government agencies--principally MOC and MSRI as well as the KPPI Secretariat--as primary
implementing agencies. A Project Management Unit will report to and work under the technical
direction of the KPPI Secretariat. The Secretariat is chaired by OCMEA's Deputy Coordinating
Minister for Infrastructure and Fiscal and Economic Decentralization, which should help ensure
the project supports and is highly responsive to top-level decision-making. Administratively, the
project will form part of the OCMEA budget.
The PMU is a newly-established (February 2003) body but its design and financial management
procedures have been based on those developed for the ongoing Corporate Restructuring
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 4448-IND) and reflect the extensive experience gained
through the implementation of the two TAP4I projects (First and Second Technical Assistance
Projects for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure; Loans 3385-IND and 3913-1ND).
The project flow of funds arrangements are designed to be broadly similar to those for the
TAP4I-II project. OCMEA has already recruited qualified staff to manage the project
preparation process and its subsequent implementation.
5. The Indonesian Pilot for Enhanced Disclosure of Information being pursued in the context of
the Bank's revised Information Disclosure Policy:
As part of the implementation of the Bank's revised disclosure policy, countries were selected for
piloting enhanced disclosure if the governments of these countries were interested in
participating. In Indonesia during the CAS consultations and other discussions, both the
government and civil society expressed keen interest in substantially greater access to
information on Bank activities, especially during project implementation, to allow full public
discussion of project implementation findings. Under the Indonesia pilot enhanced disclosure is
proposed to enable civil society oversight leading to greater transparency and openness. It is
expected that initially civil society will require time to become familiar and reach the level of



10
PID
understanding of the information being provided, to use it constructively to reduce fiduciary risks
In the Indonesia Pilot for enhanced information disclosure being carried out in the context of the
Bank's revised Information Disclosure Policy, an approach to enhanced information disclosure
has been agreed with BAPPENAS on behalf of the Borrower. This approach consists of the
following arrangements:
a. Agreement on the approach for disclosure of information for new projects to the effect that
specific provision for enhanced disclosure will be built into the project arrangements during
project preparation for an agreed upon list of projects to be included in the initial phase of the
pilot. This agreed list consists of 4 projects, including the proposed Private Provision of
Infrastructure Technical Assistance Project. (The other 3 projects are the proposed Water
Resources and Irrigation Sector Management Project, the proposed Health Workforce and
Services Project and the proposed Third Kecamaten Development Project.) Annex 15
provides in more detail the arrangements developed by the KKPI secretariat to put in place an
anti-corruption action plan.
b. The specific issues where enhanced disclosure has been agreed upon concern: (i) final audit
reports issued under projects in the pilot will be made publicly available by both the
Borrower and the Bank; (ii) the mid-term report on progress under a project in the pilot will
be made publicly available by the Borrower; and (iii) the procurement process, where the
Borrower has agreed that additional information concerning parts of the procurement process
in projects in the pilot will be made publicly available. The draft Loan Agreement for this
Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance Project (PPITA) includes specific
undertakings to effectuate these agreements. These undertakings would eliminate the need
for GOI approval to be obtained prior to the public release of such information.
c. For documents other than those referred to in sub-paragraph b above (and which are currently
not disclosed without Borrower consent), the Bank will continue to consult GOI prior to
disclosure of such documents. GOI may consider moving to a more general practice of
automatic release of such documents after the Government completes its review of enhanced
information disclosure concerning the public provisions of services that it is currently
undertaking. In this regard, the anti-corruption guide for task teams and the anti-corruption
annex (15) based on this guide (together with the covenants on disclosure of audits, mid-term
review report and procurement documents) are expected to facilitate the adoption of
enhanced disclosure, and more open and transparent practices.
d. Agreement to utilize an IDF grant to support activities for developing GOI policies for
increased information disclosure under all government projects in Indonesia. A GOI
implementation team has been established, and a Bank counterpart team has also been
formed. Start-up activities for administrative arrangements and preparation of terms of
reference of consultants under this grant have been launched.
The experience under this pilot will be reviewed after two years and recommendations for future



11
PID
developments under the Bank's disclosure policy would be developed.
7. Sustainability
Indonesia needs to attract large scale and efficient private investment in infrastructure on reasonable
terms in order to sustain its economic recovery, maintain and improve its international competitiveness,
and expand and improve delivery of basic public services. This need should in principle provide strong
and sufficient incentives for ensuring the sustainability of project benefits. There will, however, be a
need for strong political commitment to ensuring the private sector is involved through processes that are
transparent, competitive and maximize public benefits, and to resisting vested interests urging a return to
business-as-usual. More generally, there will also be a need for significant progress towards improving
the overall investment climate and strengthening the domestic banking system and capital markets if
improvements in policy and regulatory environments and institutional capacities are to result in increased
private investment flows in infrastructure.
At the more micro level, the sustainability of project benefits will also depend on the ability and
willingness of the key participating agencies to assign sufficient competent and suitably motivated staff
to work as counterparts to the advisory teams and consultants, to offer career development opportunities
that encourage such staff to further develop and utilize their skills and expertize, and to actively promote
cross-boundary working within their own organizations.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
(First) Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure
The OED Project Performance Audit Report (Report 19462, June 16, 1999) identified the
following main lessons learned:
*   Counterpart funding should be significant to ensure increased ownership and sustainability of
this type of project.
*   The effectiveness of the project management unit depends on the PMU's capacity to access
key decision-makers in both the national development planning agency and the executing
agencies, as well as the strength of its operational staff.
*   Free-standing and open-ended technical assistance projects need to emphasize 1) rapidity of
review and approval process of requests for financing and 2) agreement at appraisal on a
series of terms of reference and project development packages.
*   Technical assistance projects involving executing agents/decentralized units should focus
more on these units. Intermediate results from project components to overall project
objectives (from implementing studies to concluding contracts) must be made clear to them
from the beginning.
*   Specific guidelines must be provided by the PMU to such agencies to avoid having to reject
requests for financing.
*   Good supervision and continuity in the supervision team is critical for satisfactory project
implementation. The size and skill mix of the team should be adjusted depending on the
complexity of project components and the sectors they address.
Second Technical Assistance Project for the Public and Private Provision of Infrastructure.
TAP4I-I1 was approved in June 1995, some 21 months before TAP4I-I was completed, and some
four years before the above OED Performance Audit Report was issued. Its design nonetheless
attempted to address some but not all--of the lessons flagged by the OED audit. In particular, it
sought to ensure a substantial pipeline of well prepared sub-components was ready by the time of



12
PID
appraisal, although in the event many of those identified subsequently lost the support of the
sponsoring sector agencies or were financed from other sources. The Project closed in December
2001 and preparation of the ICR was completed in June 2002.
The task of identifying meaningful lessons is complicated by the dramatic change in Indonesia's
circumstances and attractiveness to private infrastructure investors as a result of the economic
crisis. Nonetheless, a number of important points emerged with regard to the overall strategy for
restoring PPI:
*   Sector institutions need to better integrate private sector participation within their overall
infrastructure development policy formulation, planning, and implementation activities.
Private infrastructure projects are often being handled by different groups within sector
institutions, and there has been a tendency for those promoting traditional public sector
programs to undermine the case for private participation and hence send mixed messages to
prospective investors. Moreover, officials involved with promoting private participation
often show a limited grasp of what the private sector can bring to infrastructure projects and
what they will require in return (including with respect to tariffs and possible needs for
government supports).
*   Don 't under-estimate resistance to change within public institutions. As noted in Section
B.2, transparently managed private section participation-whether through green-field
projects or privatization-may threaten vested interests. This applies in particular to private
projects that would encroach on the domains of public enterprises that are now enjoying
monopoly or quasi-monopoly positions. Efforts to promote rapid and sustainable private
infrastructure development should therefore include carefully designed and coordinated
actions to anticipate and address such resistance.
*   Champions are needed. As indicated previously, the TAP4I-PMU has functioned as
Indonesia's de facto promoter of private infrastructure investment and P3 center. However,
its influence and effectiveness was constrained by the absence of strong political champions
and by its remoteness from key decision-makers. Champions are needed both to lend weight
to efforts to overcome institutional resistance and to help shape efforts to overcome public
opposition to an expanded private sector role.
*   Demonstration projects have value. The preparation and implementation of demonstration or
pilot projects provides an important means of refining and applying policies, and can play a
catalytic role in attracting private investment. Negative lessons in particular can greatly assist
the design of future projects. While institutional and regulatory reform should ideally
precede,project interventions, there may be instances where such reforms can appropriately
be refined in parallel with the design of demonstration projects.
The key lessons and issues from TAP4I-II relevant to the design of a new technical assistance
operation include:
*   Needfor clear and well-focused objectives. The objectives of TAP4I-II were very broad, as
also were the criteria for deciding whether proposed studies or technical assistance would be
eligible for support under it. While the Project financed much useful assistance, it is difficult
to relate the resultant outputs meaningfully to its overarching development goals. The



13
PID
objectives of a follow-on operation should be more narrowly focused on enabling private
participation in infrastructure rather than on infrastructure development in general.
*   Needfor an effective linkage to senior decision-makers. The TAP4I-II steering committee
did not function as envisaged and the PMU--and hence the project--became increasingly
isolated from high-level decision-making on key infrastructure policy and strategy issues.
These problems were further exacerbated by changes in the structure of government changes
that resulted in Bappenas' authority on infrastructure issues diminishing. A future project
should be attached to and support a functioning high level coordinating agency or central
agency that enjoys effective support within Government.
*   Needfor strong ownership by TA users. Follow-up on some of the technical assistance
packages funded under TAPI-II has been very limited.. While this is partly attributable to the
onset of the crisis and subsequent widespread changes in government organization and
staffing, there are also indications that some agencies did not fully "own" the assistance they
managed. A future project should therefore be more selective and focus on supporting
agencies that are pro-active in committing staff resources to work on proposal development,
and should employ competitive mechanisms for allocating scarce TA resources.
*   Needfor clear roles of participating agencies. Many individual technical assistance services
suffered long delays due to lack of clarity regarding the respective roles of the PMU and
individual implementing agencies. In principle, the PMU was responsible for ensuring funds
were used in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement while implementing agencies
were responsible for ensuring the quality of outputs and their transformation into outcomes.
In practice, there were numerous instances of procurement-related issues causing long
implementation delays. The design of a follow-on project accordingly needs to incorporate a
clearer accountability framework.
*   Positioning technical assistance at the right level. It is not realistic to expect agencies to
reform themselves. Thus for example, providing technical assistance relating to the
development of a new non-ministerial regulatory body through a Directorate General that will
lose powers if such a body is established is unlikely to be successful. It will be important
therefore to ensure that technical assistance serves the right clients.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : The project will not finance any physical investments and no significant environmental
issues are envisaged. Where applicable--for example in technical assistance packages involving the
design of proposed PPI pilot projects--appropriate provison will be included in TORs for identifying,
evaluating and mitigating adverse environmental impacts and for consultation with stakeholders. Such
TORs will be required to be cleared by the Bank before consultant recruitment commences. Annex II
provides a summary of the procedures and a checklist of potential issues to be used in screening all
TORs, resulting recommendations, and potential demonstration projects for safeguards issues to
incorporate appropriate provisions. (The Bank will NOT finance the implementation of these
demonstration projects; the project will only assist in the design, tendering and negotiation with private
investors for the pilot schemes.)
10. List of factual technical documents:
A. Project Implementation Plan



14
PID
1.    Project Implementation Plan
2.    Financial Management System Manual
3.    Project Activities and Implementation Schedule
4.    Project Procurement Plan and Procedures Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Proposed Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan (PPITA) -
Summary of Project Preparation Activities, February 2003
2.    Proposed Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan (Initial
Preparation Mission), May 2002
3.    Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan, Project Concept
Document, April 2002.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Stephen R. Dice
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone. (202) 473-3369
Fax: (202) 522-1787
12 For information on other project related documents contact.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone (202) 458-5454
Fax    (202) 522-1500
Web http /1 www worldbank org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.
Tables, Charts, Graphs:
Processed by the InfoShop week ending. 04/23/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
rSEARC      4  EE8CK      E[S:r~ri ~MAt -  SHOWCASESE



