ISDS
THEWORLD BANK GROUP                                              AWorld Froe of Povorty
{finkShop
Report No AC31
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 04/17/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: INDONESfA                             Project ID: P076271
Project: Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical  Task Team Leader: Stephen R. Dice
Assistance Loan
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 18, 2003   IBRD Amount ($m): 17.10
Bank Approval: May 22, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASUR                          Sector: General industry and trade sector (100%)
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector
Status: Appraised                             development (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's development objective is to assist GOI develop and implement the policy and
regulatory reforms and build the institutional and social foundations needed to enable, promote
and facilitate efficient and sustainable large-scale private investment in infrastructure.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Overview
The project is designed around and to support two important and inter-linked initiatives by
Government to restore private investment in public infrastructure, namely:
*   the establishment of the KPPI Committee; and
* the preparation and operationalizing of improved cross-sectoral policies, practices and
procedures for handling private participation in infrastructure provision.
The KPPI Committee is already operational and well advanced with drafting an improved
cross-sectoral regulation on PPI to replace Keppres 7.
The Project's core focus is on assisting the KPPI Committee to make timely and well-informed
decisions, on operationalizing the new cross-sectoral framework through supporting
sector-specific policy and regulatory reforms, on strengthening institutional capacities in areas
related to PPI, and on improving the quality and availability of information on PPI-related topics.
This will be accomplished through:



2
ISDS
*   Cross-sectoral technical assistance and advisory services
*   Sector-specific technical assistance and advisory activities;
*   Capacity building and training assistance; and
*   PMU support services.
The agencies that will be involved in the implementation of the project--notably the KPPI
Committee and key sector ministries--have limited expertise in the PPI area, but of necessity are
already being required to take decisions on important and complex issues (including the drafting
of the new Keppres 7). Accordingly the project will, as a top priority, support the recruitment of
"in-house" PPI advisors to assist these core agencies with, their ongoing activities. Terms of
reference (TOR) for these advisory services and for high priority studies and other TA packages
will be developed prior to Loan effectiveness. However, the urgency of mobilizing the
"in-house" advisory support will preclude the TORs for all envisaged activities being fully
developed up-front. It is accordingly intended that the TORs for many activities will be
firmed-up during the initial stages of project implementation with the assistance of the
"in-house" advisors.
1. Cross-sectoral technical assistance and advisory services
This component will encompass:
*   Core support to the KPPI Secretariat and Planning and Investment Sub-Committee.
*   Supplementary support to the KPPI Secretariat and Planning and Investment Sub-Committee.
*   Support for the establishment and initial operation of a central Public-Private Partnership
(P3) unit.
The project will provide support to the Secretariat and Sub-Committee in the form of a small
KPPI Core Advisory Team for the period of the project's implementation. This team will also be
available to provide limited ad hoc advice and assistance to individual sectoral and regional
agencies on an "as needed and able" basis. It is envisaged that the size of the team will diminish
as skills and expertise are transferred to GOI counterpart personnel. The lead advisor will be
expected to have extensive broad-based, high-level international experience in the preparation
and implementation of private infrastructure projects, and will be able to demonstrate, among
others, an in-depth understanding of the key success factors for PPI.
2. Sector-speciric technical assistance and advisory activities
The largest part of the project resources will be allocated sector-specific activities aimed at
establishing conditions conducive to sustainable private investment in infrastructure, and to
developing specific opportunities for such investment. The project will focus primarily on the
transport, telecommunications, and urban infrastructure sectors, and support activities involving:
*   legal and regulatory reform (drafting revisions of sector laws and implementing regulations);
*   design and establishment of regulatory institutions;
*   conduct of sector policy and strategy studies with a strong PPI focus and impact (including



3
ISDS
sector / sub-sector privatization strategy studies);
*   establishment of key sectoral "nodes" in the national P3 network;
*   preparation and tendering of demonstration PPI projects;
* conduct and dissemination of "lessons learned" analyses for recent private infrastructure
projects and privatization initiatives.
The project will also finance small teams of "in-house" PPI advisors to work with each of the
two key sector agencies, namely the Ministry of Communications (MOC) and the Ministry of
Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (MSRI). The MOC advisor(s) will be attached to its
Secretariat General and report on a daily basis to the Head of the Bureau of Planning, while the
MSRI advisor(s) will be attached to its Agency for Investment and Construction, whose structure
already includes an embryonic P3 unit.
TORs for the priority assistance in these sectors, including in particular for the PPI advisors, have
been defined during project preparation. However, a sizeable pool of funds remain un-earmarked
so as to enable the project to respond effectively and promptly to evolving needs and
opportunities. The MOC and MSRI PPI advisors will play an important role in developing the
TORs for such activities, and in helping to guide and manage their implementation and ensure
outputs are disseminated and used effectively.
P3 network nodes: In parallel with supporting the establishment of a central P3 unit, the project
will also assist with setting up P3 "nodal" units in MSRI and MOC. Within MSRI, the Agency
for Investment and Construction has been given clear responsibility for promoting private
investment within its sectoral domain. The project will assist the Agency to strengthen its
capabilities, including initially through knowledge management technical assistance aimed at
helping it improve the accessibility of MSRI's extensive PPI-related information resources.
While MOC has not yet established a structural unit to be responsible for promoting PPI, the
Head of Planning Bureau (in the Secretariat General) has been charged with coordinating the
Ministry's activities in this area. The project will provide support for the development of an
embryonic P3 capacity in the Ministry, again focusing initially on knowledge management and
located within the Bureau of Planning.
Demonstration projects. The project will support the preparation of a limited number of
demonstration projects designed to be feasible and attractive for private investment. The choice
of projects will be demand-driven, with the PPI advisors assisting MOC and MSRI (in
conjunction with regional agencies where appropriate) to firm-up suitable proposals. The focus
will be on small and medium scale schemes that will be amenable to replication (e.g. possible
pilot for rural wireless connectivity). The support to be provided under the project would extend
through the tendering, award and contract negotiation stages. Clear criteria have been
established for deciding whether proposals qualify for the allocation of preparation financing
under the project, specifically considering potential environmental and social impacts of the
demonstration projects (if any), and the preparation process for the approved schemes will
include documenting key decision issues so as to assist the design of future projects of a similar
nature and the preparation of case study materials.
Lessons learned analyses. It will be important for Indonesia to learn effectively from its past
initiatives to attract private investment in infrastructure and restructure and privatize state-owned
infrastructure enterprises, and to be able to relate these lessons to international experiences.



4
ISDS
Where possible, such lessons-learned analyses would be funded from grant resources (e.g.
PPIAF). However, it is planned that a small number of high priority reviews will be supported
by the project, and that the outputs would be used as case studies for the proposed training
program.
3. Capacity building and training
The project will contribute to capacity building and training in areas relating to private
participation in infrastructure through three main channels:
*   assistance with development of curricula and training modules on issues relevant to PPI and
training of trainers for a range of courses designed to be delivered by qualified universities
and other institutions;
*   support for key staff from agencies directly engaged in dealing with prospective private
infrastructure investors or responsible for sector policy matters and regulation to participate
in short training courses, conferences, workshops or other developmental programs of
relevance to their specific duties;
*   technical transfer to counterparts from the conduct of studies and provision of technical
advisory services.
4. PMU support services
The PMU will be accommodated in rental space near OCMEA's office and the key management
positions will be staffed by GOI personnel. The project will finance administration,
procurement, accounting, and support staff.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project will finance technical assistance to GOI agencies located in Jakarta and selected local governments
potentially nationwide.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                   * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                           0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                              0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                               0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                0 Yes 0 No



5
IS DS
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section 11 - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
Il.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significanlt and/or irreversible impacts.
None
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
None
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not applicable.
IL.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The project design will seek to ensure the effective involvement of stakeholders in the
formulation of policy and in the design of PPI demonstration projects. This will be accomplished
through the careful design of TORs for the technical assistance packages to be financed under the
project. More generally, the project design recognizes the importance of building public
awareness, undestanding and acceptance of the need for and benefits of PPI, and incorporates
outreach activities design to help accomplish this.
E. Safeguards Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:           Expected      Actual



6
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why. None
Required. However, this ISDS and Annex 11 of the PAD outlining Safeguards procedures are available
in Jakarta at the Bank's PIC and at the project PMU.
Sip_ned and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:              Stephen R. Dice                              April 4, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Thomas E. Walton                         April 7, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Cyprian F. Fisiy                         April 7, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                            April 9, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:       Keshav Varma                                 April 4, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
FSEARIH  _     I FEEDAK        S E MAP          W I |SHOWCASE



