E744
March 2003
Additional Annex 11: Summary of Project Environmental and Social Safeguards Process
INDONESIA: Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance Loan
The Indonesia Private Provision of Infrastructure Technical Assistance (PPITA) Project focuses
on institutional capacity building, policy and regulatory initiatives, training and project
management unit support for the objective of assisting GOI in promoting and facilitating efficient
and sustainable large-scale private investment in infrastructure. According the project design,
none of the four project components will directly produce social or environmental impacts, nor
resettlement issues. These changes in policy, law and regulations could improve or detract from
the ability of GOI to enforce the existing environmental and social safeguards requirements
(generally adequate) in projects implemented by private parties. The Project will include an
evaluation of the impact upon safeguards effectiveness of all new legal and regulatory measures
assessed by the project advisory team and consultants.
Additionally, the project will support the preparation of a limited number of demonstration
projects designed to be feasible and attractive for private investment. These pilot projects would
generally be small and medium scale schemes targeting sectors such as telecommunication and
transportation. These demonstration projects could produce environmental and social issues
when physical works, for example telecommunication towers or public transport schemes, are
carried out by selected private investors who are contracted as the results of this project. Under
the PPITA project, the Bank support to be provided would extend through the tendering, award
and contract negotiation stages for such demonstration projects, as well as evaluating the
replicability of such projects. During PPITA project preparation, however, no attempt was
appropriate to finalize the selection of such demonstration schemes. It is therefore necessary to
develop a safeguards procedure and screening requirements for environmental and social issues.
This procedure and its environmental and social requirements are based on the existing GOI
regulations and World Bank policies, and should be applied in all demonstration project
preparation and integrated into the tendering and implementing documents for each selected
scheme.
1.    Environmental assessment
1.1   Project screening
The EA screening should be based on the environmental screening of the PPITA pilot projects
which would utilize Prosedur Penyaringan Amdal and UKL/UPL (Prosedur Kerja No.1.1) to
determine whether Amdal or UKL/UPL is required. This process was an output of the
Institutional Strengthening in Enviromental Management (ISEM) project and has been adopted
by Kimpraswil (Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure) as the recommended
screening procedure for all projects. The two-stage screening process consists of:
*     Initial screening to determine whether any environmental examination is required; and
*     Second stage screening to determine the extent of further environmental examination
(Andal or UKL/UPL).


﻿The initial screening should be used to determine the classification of EA requirement equivalent
to Category A, B and C under the World Bank safeguard policies. As a general rule, projects
determined in the screening to require ANDAL will be considered as falling into the Bank's
Category A; such schemes will be included for preparation support from PPITA only if an
adequate EA/Andal study is already prepared at the time it is proposed for PPITA support (i.e.
PPITA will not devote significant resources to funding EA/Andal preparation, but could review
such studies prepared previously). Projects determined to require UKL/UPL for less intensive
treatment will be considered as falling into Category B and potentially acceptable for inclusion in
PPITA Any exceptions to this rule for A and B decisions can be dealt with as special cases in
consultation with the World Bank environmental specialists.
As part of the preparation of demonstration projects designed to be feasible and attractive for
private investment, each project will have clear environmental requirements resulting from the
EA screening available when the government invites private investors for bidding on the project.
During the initial screening stage, the government can utilize existing data and maps already
available during project preparation. If such data and information are not available, site visits or
other means of data and information collection will be undertaken by the PPITA PMU to
establish the data needed for screening (PMU budget are available for limited field work only).
An approval from the World Bank for the EA classification and proposed safeguard measures for
each of the demonstration projects is a condition before the government invites investors for
bidding the proposed projects.
The second stage screening (equivalent to scoping in EA) requires a more detailed assessment of
the characteristics of the projects, available from existing project preparation data, and more
detailed assessment of the characteristics of the area to be developed or occupied. Key
environmental concerns such as the scope of impacts, assessment boundaries, sensitive factors
such as nature conservation, biodiversity, etc., should be considered. It will be necessary to
undertake field studies during this second stage of screening in order to fully understand the
potential environmental impacts caused by the proposed project. When the proposal for a pilot
project is initially accepted and agreed between the government and private investor(s), the
government should provide at least partial financing (to be negotiated case-by-case) for the
potential investor to conduct the second stage EA screening and prepare the draft environmental
documentation.
1.2   EA preparation
It is the developer's responsibility to carry out an environmental assessment although the local
governments and institutions can provide policy guidance and technical support. In the
meantime, seeking advice from the World Bank environmental staff is always encouraged. The
environmental assessment should be carried out at project feasibility stage and the results of
which should be, to the largest extent, reflected in project feasibility study and design. For
projects tinder the Bank's Category A and B equivalent, a formal EA is required and the contents
of the EA statement should be in consistent with the GOI and Bank requirements. For projects
under Category C, an environmental analysis should be carried out and an environmental review
checklist be filled as part of the project feasibility study for appraisal (see the attached checklist).


﻿1 .3  Project EA/analysis approval
For demonstration projects under the PPITA project, both the EA report and environmental
review checklist will be subject to the review and approval by relevant local environmental
authority and the World Bank.
1.4   Public participation, consultation and information disclosure
During the course of project EA screening to approval, the public should at least have two formal
opportunities to be consulted and to participate in project EA activities. The first opportunity
should be at the screening stage and EA preparation when NGOs, local communities, and project
affected people should be fully informed of the project and consulted in the forms of meetings,
surveys, publicity through handouts, and local media. Their experience and considerations in
regard to the potential environmental impacts should be fully included in screening and EA
preparation. The second opportunity should be after an EA report or environmental analysis
report is completed and before the approval by the government authority and the Bank During
this period, the EA report or analysis should be made available in the local community such as
local library, project development office and other venues. NGOs, local communities and project
affected people should be informed of such availability through local media and public meetings
or gatherings. The time for the EA report/analysis report to be displayed for comments should be
no less than three weeks.
1.5   Environmental management plan (EMP) implementation and monitoring
For Category A and B equivalent projects, an environmental management plan (EMP) should be
developed in the EA. The EMP should include the major environmental impacts caused by the
project during construction and operation stages, the proposed mitigation measures, and
monitoring and reporting requirements (see format samples attached) to ensure the
implementation of such measures. The activities proposed in EMP should be integrated into
contract tendering documents as part of the bill of quantities, which would allow the proper
budget for implementing such mitigation and monitoring measures. The contractor should
implement all the mitigation measures as required in project contracts and the supervision
engineers have the responsibility to supervise the implementation of such measures and report to
the private investor. The private investor should report the results to the local environmental
authorities, who would forward these to the project management office (PPITA PMU).
The local environmental authority should carry out periodic monitoring for the implementation of
EMP. The results of which should be reported to the project management office, and the PMU
should inform the World Bank of such results and EMP implementation progress.
2.    Social assessment
Social assessment, land acquisition and resettlement for pilot projects are the responsibility of the
government. Land acquisition and resettlement must be finished and land be ready for project


﻿implementation before the government signs contracts with private investors for respective
projects For demonstration projects which need considerable land acquisition and resettlement, a
resettlement action plan (RAP) should be prepared under the pdlicy frameworks developed for
the relevant sectors (such as that in East Indonesia Transport Project). However, such projects
would generally not fit the above-stated criteria for a PPITA pilot project. For projects vith
limited land acquisition and resettlement, the attached Environmental/Social Review Checklist
will be used. For both projects with either considerable or minor land acquisition and
resettlement, the implementation of a RAP or Checklist should be strictly in compliance with the
policy framework developed in the Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management
(ISEM) project.
2.1    Land acquisition and compensation
ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with land acquisition and
compensation. They incorporate the requirements of both the GOI and the World Bank and were
accepted by both parties as the future approach for consultation. The key features of land and
building acquisition and compensation will be as follows:
*     All affected stakeholders with legal title will receive compensation for all land and
buildings based on replacement value. The replacement value for land will be determined
by the open market value of that land. The replacement value of buildings will be based
on standard building costs obtainable from the Public Works Department.
*     Consultation with all affected stakeholders will take place during all phases of acquisition
and compensation process.
*     Consultation with all affected stakeholders will include information on all laws and
regulations concerning valuation and compensation.
*      Stakeholders with traditional or other title will be compensated to an agreed and
published process.
2.2    Resettlement
ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with resettlement. They
incorporated the requirements of both GOI and the World Bank and were accepted by both
parties as the future approach for consultation. The key elements of the ISEM requirements for
resettlement include:
*     There will be extensive consultation throughout the resettlement process with all affected
stakeholders (and by its very nature, land acquisition also).
*     The consultation will include surveys of all affected stakeholders to determine their needs
and present conditions, and monitoring of resettled stakeholders.
*     NGOs will be actively involved in all consultations.
*     A land aquisition and resettlement action plan (or LARAP) will be prepared where more
than 100 households are to be resettled.
*      All affected stakeholders will be given choices in terms of cash or resettlement.
*     Compensation for land, buildings and other assets acquired will be at real replacement


﻿cost. Host communities will be involved in consultation process.
2.3   Isolated vulnerable people
ISEM prepared a set of procedures, processes and guidelines connected with isolated people.
They incorporated the requirements of both the GOI and the World Bank and were accepted by
both parties as the future approach for consultation. The main features of ISEM approach in
regard to isolated people include:
*     There will be extensive consultation with all affected isolated people through the
planning, feasibility, design and construction process.
*     The consultation will include an assessment of how to balance the benefits that will
accrue to the project and of maintaining the special cultural and other characteristics of
the isolate peoples.
*     The consultation process will involve close liaison with NGOs particularly where the
isolated peoples do not speak Bahasa Indonesia.
*     As needed, an indigenous peoples' action plan would be developed and cleared by the
Bank before the bidding documents can be released to the contractors for bidding.
2.4   Other possible social impacts
The PPITA project has selected telecommunication, water supply, urban services and transport as
the key target sectors to attract the private investment. One of the other potential social impacts
in addition to land acquisition, resettlement and indigenous people is the effects on isolated
communities and culture caused, for example, by wireless communication which can reach every
corner of the islands in Indonesia. It is suggested that the PMU seek a grant-based fund to study
this issue through the analysis of the completed and on-going projects in telecommunications and
other relevant projects which accessed to such isolated communities.


﻿Table Annex 11-1. Environmental/Social Review Checklist for
Proposed Pilot Projects
Name of pilot project
Name of province (region)
Proposed (late of start of work
Brief description of pilot project:
A) Environmental effects related to the pilot pject
location/design
Type of environmental resources               Predicted effects/impacts
Minor         Moderate            Major
Natural habitat and wild life
Erosion and soil control
Drainage pattern
Water quality
Land use and settlement
Historical and cultural sites
Visual effects and aesthetics
Relocation of people/livestock
Land acquisition
Reduction of access to roads/water/public
services/pasture
B) Environmetal effe- reldt&to,pilo pdjeT JUct >
constructioni/boerion__
Type of environmental resources               Predicted effects/impacts
Minor        Moderate          Major
Natural vegetation and wildlife
Land use and settlement
Health and safety
Erosion and silt control
Noise and dust
Hazardous materials
C) Environmeritil effe 7el fel to p
iO,l1utioni-
Type of pollution                             Predicted effects/impacts
Minor        Moderate          Major
Atmospheric pollution
Noise pollution
Heat pollution                                                                                  .
Solid waste pollution
Liquid waste pollution
Other pollution
.D) Impacts 7
Environment
Does the pilot project require large volume of  Yes, details:                No


﻿construction materials to be taken from local sources
(e.g Gravel, stones, water, timber, firewood)?
Does the pilot project require, or lead to, the disposal Yes, details:        No
of wastewater or any other solids or liquids into
streams, rivers and lakes?
Does the pilot project have human health and safety Yes, details:             No
risks, during construction or later?
Will the pilot project produce solid wastes (including Yes, details:          No
packaging, oils, or discarded machinery parts)?
Resettlement
Will the pilot project involve any land acquisition?  Yes, details:           No
Will the pilot project affect buildings, crops, trees,  Yes, details.         No
business and other assets?
Will the pilot project cause involuntary resettlement? Yes, details:          No
Indigenous people
Are there indigenous peoples communities in the area Yes, details:            No
of the pilot project?
Will the pilot project affect the rights, traditional land Yes, details:      No
and water rights of indigenous peoples?
How will indigenous people participate in the  Details:                       No
environmental and social assessment activities
What mitigation measures will be put in place to  Details:                    No
ensure that IPs do not lose access to resources and
land rights?


﻿Attachment 3 Sample Format of Environment Management Plan
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT
MITIGATION PLAN
Cost            Institutional Responsibility Comments
Phase            Issue    Mitigation   Install  Operate      Install    Operate      (e.g.,
Measure                                                  secondary
impacts)
Construction*
*
*
*
Operation
0
*
*
*
Decommissioning*
*
*
*
*


﻿B. MONITORING PLAN
Cost            Responsibility
Phase        What     Where is   How is the  When is the  Why is the  Install  Operate  Install   Operate
parameter    the     parameter to parameter to  parameter
is to be  parameter be monitored be monitored -  to be
monitored?   to be     / type of  frequency of  monitored2
monitored9 monitoring  measurement (optional)
equipment9 or continuous?
Baseline (usually
for Category A
projects only)
Construct
Operate
Decommission


