DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use                 FILE  cOPY
Report No. 68a-MA
APPRAISAL OF
THE KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
MALAYS IA
May 2, 1973
Asia Projects Department
Public Utilities Division
| This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Malaysian Dollar (M$)
M$ 1.00             =    100 cents
US$1.00             =    M$ 2.54
US$1 million             M$ 2.54 million
M$ 1.00              -    US$0.39
M$ 1 million              US$393,700
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
gallon    =    Imperial gallon (1 Imperial gallon = 1.2 U.S. gallons
or 4.5461 liters)
gpd       5    Imperial gallons per day
_Mg       =    million Imperial gallons
IMgd      =    million Imperial gallons per day
(1 IMgd = 4,546 cubic meters per day)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
PWD            Public Works Department
UNDP      5    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    -    United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
WD        5    Water Division
WHO            World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS              ..                  i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION             .. ..............                  1
II.  THE SECTOR .............................................    2
General ...........................................   2
Sector Development              .         .           2
Sector Organization and Management      .     .       3
Water Supply Sector - Selangor State     .    .       4
III.   THE PROJECT ............................................    5
Description                  . .    5
Cost Estimates ...... .     ......................    6
Amount of Proposed Loan            .       .          7
Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction   7
Procurement .......................................    7
Disbursement ....................................    . 7
Catchment Area and Land Acquisition      .    .       8
Ecological Aspects              .         .           8
IV.  JUSTIFICATION ..........................................    9
Project Objectives and Demand Forecast     . .        9
Least Cost Solution              . .                 10
Return on Investment ..............................   10
V.  THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY .......................   10
The Borrower                 . .    10
The Beneficiary                .         .           10
Management and Staff             .        .          11
Management Systems ................................   12
Audit .............................................   13
VI.  FINANCE ................................................   13
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of Messrs.
V. Rajagopalan and L. V. Smith which visited Malaysia in October-November
1972.



-2-
Page No.
General .................................         13
Past Performance and Present Financial Position.  13
Financing Plan ..................................  14
Water Charges ...................................  15
Future Finances .................................  17
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION ..... ..........  17
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex
1.  Existing Water Supply and Sewerage in Klang Valley Region
2.  Description of the Project
3.  Project Cost Estimate
4.   Construction Schedule
5.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.  Population and Water Production Statistics and Projections
7.  Rate of Return
8.  Organization Chart of Selangor Water Division
9.   Income Statements for Selangor Water Division 1971 - 1981
10.   Income Statements for Klang Valley Region (Project Area) 1971-1981
11.  Cash Flow Projections for Selangor Water Division 1971-1981
12.  Balance Sheets for Selangor Water Division 1971-1981
13.  Assumptions for Financial Projections
14.   Schedule of Water Rates
MAPS
IBRD 10287 - Existing Water Supplies and Proposed Project
IBRD 10288 - General Layout of Project



MALAYSIA
APPItAISAL OF MlE ULALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project to increase water
supply to tne urban and rural communities in the Klang Valley region of
Selangor State in Malaysia for which a loan of US$13.5 million is proposed.
The project is the second stage of a long-range plan for water supply to
the region which includes Kuala Lumpur, the Federal and State capital, Shah
Alam, tne future capital of Selangor State, and Klang port, the busiest
port in West lialaysia.
ii.       The Government of ialaysia will be the borrower and the State
Government of Selangor will be the beneficiary and its Water Division (WD)
will be responsible for carrying out the project. The proposed loan will
be the second such loan to Selangor State. Tihe first loan (561-14IA) made
in August 1968 was for financing the foreign exchange costs of a new water
treatment plant and transmission and distribution pipelines to increase
water supply to the Kuala Lumpur area.  The new treatment plant has been in
use since September 1972 and all the works are expected to be completed by
June 1973, about twentyone months behind schedule but with no significant
increase in costs. An objective of the first loan was to help in the re-
organization and development of WD as a financially separate unit with its
own system of accounting and financial management. Financial statements
indicate that WD's operating income more than doubled between 1968 and 1972
and that the water supply systems in the State as a whole continue to be
financially self-supporting.
iii.      The objective of tne proposed second stage project is to provide
piped water supply to parts of the project area which do not have a public
water supply, and provide facilities to ensure a continuous water supply
and meet increasing water demand in the project area. Present water demand
is already in excess of the combined capacities of the existing systems in
the region. The first stage project will help to meet the demand in the
Kuala Lumpur area for a few years but unless the second stage project is
constructed, serious shortages will occur in the region with associated
public health problems.
iv.       The project consists of the construction of a dam on the Langat
river, some 14 miles northeast of Kuala Lumpur, additional treatment works,
transmission and distribution mains and service reservoirs. These facilities,
together with the existing ones and the first stage project, will serve 1.6
million people in the Klang Valley region.
V.        The project is estimated to cost about US$26.2 million (M$ 66.6
million). The proposed loan of US$13.5 million will cover about 51% of the
total project costs which is the estimated foreign exchange component. The
balance would be financed from internal cash generation. All contracts will
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. Most of the



- ii -
equipment needed for the project will be imported, but some items such as
asbestos cement pipes and steel pipes locally fabricated using imported
steel plates are likely to be supplied by local manufacturers who vill
receive a preference of 15% or the prevailing tariff, whichever is less.
There are at present no preferential tariffs applicable in respect of the
goods likely to be imported for this project.
vii.      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$13.5 million
equivalent for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years. The
Government of Malaysia will relend the proceeds of the loan to the State
Government of Selangor on the same terms as those of the Bank loan.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF  ILE KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mlalaysia has requested a loan of US$13.5 million
to help finance the foreign exchange costs of a project to increase the
water supply to the Klang valley region in the State of Selangor, which
includes the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. The project will be carried
out by the Water Division of the Selangor State Government which is
responsible for water supply in the State of Selangor. The project is
estimated to cost US$26.2 million equivalent.
1.02      The project is part of a long-term plan for water supply for
the Klang valley region involving the development Qf the Sungei Langat
(Langat river) in stages to meet the future needs. In August 1968, the
Bank provided a loan of US$3.6 million equivalent (Loan 561-'qA) to cover
the foreign exchange costs of the earlier works in this plan --- the first
stage project -- consisting of river intake works, water treatment plant,
transmission mains, service reservoirs and distribution system extensions.
About 3 million gallons a day have been supplied from the new treatment
plant since September 1972 and the entire works are expected to be completed
by June 1973. The main civil works contracts had to be retendered in the
middle of construction of the project due to the abandonment of works
following the death of the contractor, and this had led to the postponement
of completion by about twentyone months but the costs are within the
original estimates.
1.03      The management of water supply systems in SelangQr State
received special impetus as a result of the Bank's involvement in the
Kuala Lumpur water supply project. Considerable improvement in organiza-
tion, accounting and project preparation has taken place. The Water
Division of the Selangor State Government (WD) has been reorganized and
a commercial accounting system has been introduced following recommenda-
tions made by management consultants under a study financed as part of the
first stage project. The State Government has recently approved the
setting up of WD as a self-accounting department and has authorized the
establishment of a revolving fund into which water revenues will be deposited
and expenditures met by WD.
1.04      The project has been prepared by Binnie & Partners ('.alaysia),
who also designed the first stage works. Appraisal of the project was
carried out by a mission composed of Mtessrs. V. Rajagopalan and L. V.
Smith who visited Malaysia in October-November 1972.



-2-
II. THE SECTOR
General
2.01      .ialaysia, with a population of about 11.0 million, is a federation
of 13 states occupying two distinct regions separated by about 400 miles
of South China Sea. West Malaysia, with a population of about 9.3 million,
consists of 11 states on thle Malay peninsula and East Malaysia comprises
mne States of Sarawak and Sabah on the Northwest coast of the Island of
Borneo. Each state is divided into a number of districts for administrative
purposes. Piped water supply services in Malaysia have been steadily
extended in the last decade to serve about 50% of the total population.
Sector Development
2.02      Water supply systems in West Malaysia are not generally restricted
to serving one community, city, or town. The system serves an area
comprising mainly urban population but also benefits the populations in the
adjoining rural areas.  Most of the water supply systems within a State, and
in some instances water supply systems in adjacent States, have been inter-
connected to facilitate supply. This approach has brought the benefits of
piped water supply to rural communities enroute which would normally be
unable to support separate piped water systems on their own. It is
estimated that in West M1'laysia piped water supply is accessible to a popu-
lation of about 5.12 million or about 57.5% of the total population as
compared with about 39%O in 1960. These water supply systems serve almost
all of the urban areas and the adjoining villages. Metered house service
connections have been provided in most instances and public standpipes
form an insignificant percent of the total number of connections. The
Second Malaysia Plan (1971-75) includes water supply projects to meet the
growing demand of the principal urban areas of the country, to provide
water supply facilities to tlie settlers under the Federal Land Development
Authority schemes and to continue the process of providing safe water
supplies to an increasing segment of the total population by constructing
new projects and expansion of service from existing systems.  It is
estimated that an additional population of at least 1.0 million would be
benefitted by these projects. This would mean that about 65% of the pop-
ulation would be served by water supply systems.
2.03      Construction of sewerage and sewage disposal systems have not
made much progress in West Malaysia. Sewerage systems exist only in
Kuala Lumpur and Georgetown in Penang State.  With the increase in the
provisioni of water supply systems and expansion of the areas where piped
water supply services are made available, the waste water disposal problem
is rapidly increasing.  Pollution of the water sources is already occurring
in iany instances. The incidence of cholera ;was reported in a few states
during 1972.  Preliminary studies made _n the Dast for sewerage schemes in
some urban areas have not resulted tn the c3nstruction of systems.  A com-
prehensive sewerage study is being undertaken for the Kuala Lumpur area
and __ is expected to help stimnulate development of future sewerage



projects. Under the Second Malaysia Plan, extensions and improvements to
existing sewerage systems are expected to be done in Kuala Lumpur and
Georgetown and a new sewerage project is to be constructed in Ipoh.
2.04      In East Malaysia, the development of urban water supplies has
been making good progress especially in Sabah where the emphasis has been
on meeting the needs of cities and towns for water and sewerage facilities.
The basic groundwork has been done for ensuring that these services keep
pace with the development. In Sarawak, where some 80% of the population lives
in small scattered communities with poor communications between them, a
rural water supply pilot program for providing piped water supply has been
developed by the Medical and Health Department with the assistance of
WHO/UNICEF. A pilot project consisting of 126 small water supply systems
serving about 30,000 people has been completed. The experience and data
available from this project should be helpful in planning for a realistic
water supply program for the rural population in all the States.
2.05      The funds for investments in water supplies are derived from
Federal Government loans and budget allocations and State and local resources;
international loans are sought only for the larger projects. Under the
Second Malaysia Plan which includes a provision of about US$80.0 million for
this sector, the State Governments that can afford to have been encouraged
to use mainly their own resources for the water supply projects. Since
a basic water supply system exists in almost all urban areas, future
investments in urban areas are needed mainly to expand these systems as
required to meet growth in demand.  Apart from the Bank loan for the Kuala
Lumpur water supply project (Loan 561-MA), the Asian Development Bank is
assisting in the financing of urban water supply projects in the States of
Malacca, Penang and Perak.
Sector Organization and Management
2.06      The responsibility for providing safe water supply lies with
each State Government. The State Public Works Department (PWD) is generally
responsible for the design, construction, administration, operation and
maintenance of all public water supplies and public works within the State.
Main exceptions are Malacca and Penang States which have recently set up
water boards to manage their water supply systems. Some small rural
water supply systems in the States of Pahang and Kelantan are operated and
maintained by local councils. Urban water supplies in Sarawak are controlled
either by PWD or individual water boards and the Medical and Health
Department operates and maintains all small water supply systems.
2.07      Sewerage projects are generally the responsibility of the munici-
palities concerned. But in Sabah, the PWD also maintains some of the sewer-
age systems on behalf of town boards.
2.08      At t'ne national level, the water supply branch of the Federal
PWD is expected to provide technical advice to the Federal Government and
State PWDs in West Malaysia on all water supply matters. Its responsibili-
ties include collection of statistical data on water supplies in West



-4
Malaysia, examination of proposals for water supply schemes for which
Federal loans are requested and assistance in design of certain projects and
procurement of equipment and materials.  However, these functions are not
being carried out effectively due to lack of adequate staff. There is no
technical agency at the Federal level responsible for the review and coordi-
nation of sewerage and sewage disposal projects.
2.09      The Ministry of Health at the federal level is organizing a
Public Health Engineering Division to deal with environmental sanitation
and water pollution control activities.
2.10      Tihe concept of beneficiaries paying for service through an
adequate water rate is well-established in lIalaysia and the water rates
in most cases are sufficient to meet operating costs, debt service and
yield a small surplus. Water revenues have steadily increased in all
states. Well-established billing and collection procedures are in operation
and collections are generally good.
2.11      Witlh the size of the water supply operations increasing in each
State, improvements in accounting procedures are being introduced for
better financial control and management. However, there is a general
shortage of accountants and engineers. The staff at the operating level
is weak in many organizations and the full compliment of staff sanctioned
is not in position in some cases.
Water Supply Sector - Selangor State
2.12      in terms of percentage of total population served, quantity of
water produced and sold, number of service connections, water revenues
billed and collected, profits made and overall performance, the water
supplies of Selangor State rank first among the states of West Malaysia
although there has been over investment due to poor planning in some of the
smaller systems. Existing water supply systems in the State are shown in
Map IBRD 10287.
2.13      Selangor with a population of about 1.6 million is the most
developed state in MIalaysia with Kuala Lumpur as the federal and state
capital, the main center of business, education and Government in West
Malaysia. Klang port in this state is the busiest port in West Malaysia
and it is being expanded to accommodate the rapid growth that has been
taking place. It is well connected by rail and road with Kuala Lumpur. In
recent years t'ne Klang valley linking Kuala Lumpur with Klang port has
seen a steady increase in population and considerable growth in industries.
2.14      The development of the Klang valley region comprising Kuala
Lumpur and KClang districts and some adjacent areas is presently being
studied by consultants financed under a UNDP project, with the Bank as the
executing agency. The water requirements of the region have been identi-
fied by the consultants. Construction is already underway to develop a new
city at Shiah Alam located between Kuala Lumpur and Klang cities, which
would function as the future capital of Selangor State. The provision of



- 5-
a reliable water source, new water treatment facilities, trunk mains and
distribution system extensions to meet the demand in the Klang valley region
are proposed in this appraisal report.
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project is the second stage of the long-range development plan
for water supply to the Klang valley region prepared by consultants to the
Selangor State Government. The river intake, water treatment plant and
distribution facilities being constructed under Loan 561-MA form the first
stage of this development plan, intended to meet the demand in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area of the region and when they are completed in June
1973, it will be necessary to begin construction of this project to meet
the demand in the region. Details of existing water supply and sewerage
installations in the region, including the first stage work now under construc-
tion under Loan 561-MA are described in Annex 1.
Description
3.02      The main components of the project are as follows;
(a)  An earth dam, about 175 ft high, on the Langat river
at Mile 24, northeast of Kuala Lumpur. The reservoir
formed by the dam will help to regulate the river flow
to permit a reliable supply of 85 IMgd to be abstracted
at the existing river intake works at Mile 10, after
allowing 30 IMgd for downstream use. At present the
supply in the dry season averages only about 50 IMgd at
Mile 10.
(b)  A draw-off tower with control gates, valves, and accessories
to let water from the reservoir into the river to be picked
up at the existing intake works.
(c)  Two 15 IMgd raw water pumps and two 15 IMgd treated water
pumps and associated electrical plant to be located in
existing pumphouse.
(d)  A new treatment plant with a capacity of about 28 IMgd.
(e)  14 service reservoirs in the distribution system with
capacities ranging from 0.15 IMg to 5 IMg and a 2 DMgd
booster pumping station in the distribution system.
(f)  Steel mains 27 in. to 49 in. diameter, connecting the
treatment plant with the balancing reservoir (5,000 ft),
and the balancing reservoir with two main service reser-
voirs (53,500 ft).



- 6 -
(g)  Extension of the distribution system with 8 in. to 45 in.
diameter pipes for a total length of 224,000 ft:-56,000
ft in northern areas; 14,000 ft in central areas; 50,000
ft in southern areas; 8,000 ft in western areas; 49,000
ft to serve Shah Alam, the new State capital of Selangor;
and 47,000 ft in Klang area; and the provision of new
meters.
A full description of the project is given in Annex 2, and locations of
the works are shown in Map IBRD 10288.
Cost Estimates
3.03      The estimated costs of the project are detailed in Annex 3 and
summarized below.
Cost Estimates
M$ Millions ------    ------US$ Millions-----
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Investigation and Survey       0.38      0.11    0.49    0.15       0.04       0.19
Land and Compensation          0.94       -       0.94    0.37       -         0.37
Dam and Ancillary Works       11.73      9.92   21.65    4.62       3.91       8.53
Intake and Pumping Plants    0.07        0.63    0.70    0.03       0.25       0.28
Treatment Plant                1.92       2.49    4.41    0.76      0.98       1.74
Pipelines                      4.35      11.13   15.48    1.71      4.38       6.09
Reservoirs and Pumping
Stations                     2.57      2.09    4.66    1.01       0.82       1.83
Meters                         0.36      0.84    1.20    0.14       0.33       0.47
Sub-total               22.32      27.21   49.53    8.79    10.71        19.50
Consulting Services            4.13      0.72    4.85    1.62       0.28       1.90
Contingencies:
Physical                     2.13      2.47    4.60    0.84       0.97       1.81
Price                        3.73      3.89    7.62    1.47       1.54       3.01
Total                   32.31      34.29   66.60   12.72    13.50        26.22
3.04      Construction costs are consultants' estimates and are based on
preliminary design of the project and on recent tenders awarded for materials,
equipment and civil works under the first stage project (Loan 561-MA) and
similar recent works in Malaysia and Singapore. The cost of consultants'
services included in the estimate is for detailed design of project,
preparation of tender documents, evaluation of tenders and construction
supervision. An overall provision of about 10% on all items for physical
contingencies has been added and is considered adequate. An annual price
contingency of about 4% on local and foreign costs has been allowed through
the period of construction for possible price increases. Price increases
during tihe construction of the first stage project were well within this
limit and the contingency provisions included should be adequate. The foreign



exchange component has been estimated on the assumption that pumps, motors,
valves, and treatment plant equipment will be imported; steel pipes will
be fabricated locally with imported steel and other pipes and materials
will be locally procured; and that all civil works contracts will be won by
local contractors as has happened under Loan 561-IA.
Amount of Proposed Loan
3.05      A Bank loan of US$13.5 million, equal to about 51% of the total
project cost of US$26.2 million, is proposed to finance the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the project and the consultants' fees.
Design, Construction and Supervision of Construction
3.06      Project implementation from design through commissioning of
treatment plants and completion of construction of the dam, distribution
system and all other project elements is expected to be carried out
during 1973-77. The construction schedule is shown in Annex 4.
3.07      Binnie & Partners (Malaysia) who had prepared the preliminary
design for the project have been engaged as consultants for carrying out
the detailed designs, preparation of bidding documents and construction
supervision. This arrangement is satisfactory. It is proposed that the
Bank reimburse the foreign exchange cost of consulting services which are
paid after January 1, 1973. The retroactive financing involved would
not exceed US$120,000.
3.08      The Water Division of the Selangor State Government would be
responsible for overall project administration. Performance of WD under
the first stage project has been good. The State Government will take
adequate steps for proper maintenance of the Langat Dam after construction,
and systematic collection of hydrological data in the Langat river basin will
be continued.
Procurement
3.09      All construction and supply contracts will .be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding, following the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. Local contractors are expected to win all construction contracts.
Local manufacturers are expected to compete successfully for the supply of
pipes for the transmission mains and the distribution system and water meters.
A margin of preference to local manufacturers of 15% or customs duty, which-
ever is less, has been requested and was agreed during negotiations. There
are no preferential tariffs applicable in respect of the goods likely to be
imported for this project.
Disbursement
3.10      It is proposed that the loan be disbursed against the c.i.f.
cost of all direct imports, the estimated foreign exchange component of
locally procured goods and civil works contracts, ex-factory costs of



- 8 -
locally manufactured goods and the foreign costs of consultants' services.
An estimated disbursement schedule is in Annex 5.
3.11      Should there be savings in the foreign exchange costs, it is
proposed, after the Bank's approval, to use the balance of the loan amount
for further extensions and improvements of the distribution system and/or
further consulting services, which are shown to be needed during the period
of construction.
Catchment Area and Land Acquisition
3.12      The reservoir to be formed by the new dam will inundate about a
square mile, most of which is State Government's land and forest reserves.
No difficulties are foreseen in acquiring the land for the reservoir. Access
will be through existing roads used by the Forestry Department for logging
in the area and additional land acquisition for this purpose is not needed.
The catchment area for the reservoir is about 16 square miles and there is
virtually no cash-crop cultivation in it except for some timber plantations
belonging to the Forestry Department. There is no tin mining in the area.
The State Government does not foresee any problem in resettling the few
aborigine families living in the reservoir area. The forest reserve will
be declared as a water catchment area and future logging and mining operations
will be controlled by the State Government.
icological Aspects
3.13      None of the rivers in Selangor State is at present in a "natural"
state because of discharge of tin mining wastes into the river. Due to lack
of sewerage facilities liquid wastes from inhabited areas and industries
also find their way into the streams and rivers. In the circumstances, the
effect of abstracting a significant percentage of the flow of a river on
the river regime downstream is difficult to predict. However, the Langat
river, the project source, will have sufficient flow, due to the comparatively
lower state of development in the lower reaches of the river. At the intake
at least 30 IMgd will be allowed to pass at all times for downstream users.
In addition, other tributaries join the river downstream of the intake.
3.14      The construction of the dam and the use of the reservoir for
river regulation will help to improve the quality of the river water during
the dry season. There is no fresh water fish culture in the river at present
and the salt and estuarine water fisheries would not be significantly affected
by upstream development.
3.15      The increase in the quantities of water supplied to the urban
area whten the project has been completed will add to the sewage disposal
problem.  To solve this, the sewerage system in Kuala Lumpur is steadily
being expanded and a comprehensive sewerage plan for the Kuala Lumpur metro-
politan area is being prepared and is expected to be ready for implementation
in two years. Local sewage disposal arrangements are being planned for
other areas. Assurances have been obtained from the Selangor State Government
that the discharge of sewage effluents from inhabited areas and industries into
the Langat river would be controlled.



-9-
IV. JUSTIFICATION
Project Objectives and Demand Forecast
4.01      The construction of the project as scheduled is an essential
stage in the development program to meet the water needs of the Klang valley
region during the next 20 years. The objective of the project is to extend
the supply to the newly developing urban areas and provide piped water
supply to an increasing percentage of the people living in the rural areas
in the region. The existing water works serving the Klang valley are now
operating at their installed capacities and at times have been stretched
beyond these to meet the requirements of the region. The additional treat-
ment capacity provided for Kuala Lumpur under the first project (Loan 561-MA)
will be fully utilized in the region by early 1976. Without the project,
water supply to the new housing estates and industries that are being
constructed in the region will become intermittent. If this is allowed
to happen, these areas would become vulnerable to the spread of waterborne
diseases, especially cholera which is now sporadically present.
4.02      Kuala Lumpur, Petaling Jaya, Shah Alam, Klang town and Port
Klang, the major population centers in the Klang valley, are economically
and geographically affiliated and their water supplies are already intercon-
nected. The only practicable method of planning the future water supply is
on an integrated basis as proposed under the project.
4.03      During the past decade in which a number of water works were
commissioned in the region, the demand for water has grown at an average
rate of 7.2% per annum reaching about 8.8% during the past three years.
This rate of growth, which is higher than the population growth of about
4.2% per annum for the region, is attributable to increase in percentage
of population served and increase in per capita consumption. These trends
are expected to continue. It is estimated that about 77% of the total
population of about 1.1 million is being served by piped water supply
systems. Per capita consumption is at present about 50 gpd on the average
in the developed areas where modern waterborne sanitary facilities are in
general use and about 30 gpd in the less developed areas. In forecasting
future demand it has been assumed that growth in consumption will average
about 6.5% per annum to allow for an increase in the percentage of rural
population served each year and increases in per capita consumption and
industrial demand.
4.04      Gradual reduction in the percentage of water unaccounted for is
expected from the present level of 20% to a desirable level of about 15%
by 1981 as a result of leakage survey and detection by the Water Division.
The demand projections are based on the above assumptions which correspond
with recent past experience. It is unlikely that demand will increase less
rapidly than projected but should demand increase more rapidly than projected,
the Water Division will be able to meet it by temporary overloading of the
water treatment facilities under the project and advancing the construction
of additional treatment facilities. Annex 6 shows the population and water
production statistics and projections.



- 10 -
Least Cost Solution
4.05      The main component of the project is a dam for regulating the
flow in the Langat river to enable continuous abstraction of up to 85.0 IMgd
from it and the construction of additional treatment units at the existing
intake works. The project is the least cost method of providing the addi-
tional supply to meet the demand in the Klang valley region. The further
development of other sources in the Klang valley is not possible. Already
most of the water works supplying the Klang valley region have installed
capacities in excess of reliable yields of their respective sources. These
sources obtain their supply of water from tributaries of the Klang river,
the main drainage waterway for the region. The Klang river is already
heavily polluted as it flows through the urban areas of Kuala Lumpur and
Petaling Jaya and its flaw must be maintained in order to keep the pollution
of the river down to an accepted limit. The Klang river, the nearest source,
cannot therefore be used. Alternative sources of supply from adjacent valleys
have been considered and rejected as they were more expensive.
4.06      The sizes of the project components were selected on the basis
of the present worth analyses of alternatives using discount rates of 8, 10
and 12%. The present worth of the costs of the alternative selected was
the lowest under all the discount rates used.
Return on Investment
4.07      The economic return on the project would be at least 8.6%
measuring benefits by revenues without reference to public health, flood
control and related benefits (Annex 7). But this estimate is no measure
of the justification of a project for which the only alternative would be
to plan for a deteriorating standard of public health and environment and
to limit housing and industrial development in the Klang valley.
V. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
The Borrower
5.01      As in the case of the loan for the first stage project, the
Government of Malaysia would be the borrower, and would relend the proceeds
of the loan to the Selangor State Government on the same terms as the Bank
loan (paragraph 6.08).
The Beneficiary
5.02      The Water Division (WD) of Selangor State Government, the
beneficiary, will be responsible for the project. Management consultants
(W. D. Scott and Co. of Australia) financed under Loan 561-MA for the
first stage project, have assisted in the reorganization, management and
accounting of WD. At the time of ,he appraisal of the first stage project
in No-ember 1967, WD was part of the State Public Works Department (PWD) and



the accounts of the water supply operations were kept on a cash basis and
the system did not provide adequate information for efficient management
and financial evaluation. However, the State Government agreed under the
first project (Loan 561-MA) to reorganize and maintain WD as a financially
separate unit responsible for construction, operation and maintenance of
all water supply systems in the State with its own system of accounting and
financial management. The State Government also agreed to make available
all revenues from the supply of water for the use of WD to the extent
necessary for the conduct of its operations. WD was reorganized on the
basis of management consultants' recommendations in 1970. A chart showing
the present organization of WD is in Annex 8.
.5.03     WD is under the charge of a Senior Superintending Engineer who
is its chief executive officer. It is organized on a functional basis under
four sections. It has a production and distribution section responsible
for the operation and maintenance of all water supply systems in the State;
a planning and construction section; an accounting section responsible
for financial management, accounting, budgeting and revenue collection;
and an administration section charged with office administration, personnel
matters and record-keeping. The project agreement with the Selangor State
Government would recognize WD's responsibility for the project (paragraph
5.02). WD's financial position is sound and it is generally well-managed.
It is carrying out successfully the first stage project which the Bank has
helped to finance. The State Government agreed during negotiations that any
material modification in the structure of WD's organization, operations and
accounting system would be made in consultation with the Bank.
-Manaement and Staff
5.04      WD's management has steadily improved despite shortage of staff
and frequent changes at the middle management level. The present Superintend-
ing Engineer who functions as the general manager of WD is competent and has
managed the division well. Although a new commercial accounting system and
a management performance system were introduced in July 1970 on the basis
of management consultants' recommendations, these are not yet fully
operative because of the frequent changes in key staff. The present head
of the finance section is a chartered accountant who joined WD in mid-1972.
His two immediate assistants are also new to their jobs. Until recently,
there were a number of vacancies in this section from time to time causing
delays in day-to-day work. Improvement in financial management has
therefore been spasmodic.
5.05      The position has been even more difficult in the case of the
engineering sections. Due to a nation-wide slhortage of engineers and tech-
nical assistants, a number of positions in the engineering sections have
remained vacant. The existing staff is used mainly for operation and main-
tenance of the systems and minor construction supervision. For most of
the project preparation and construction supervision of major works, consul-
tants are employed. Operations and maintenance except at large installations
such as the Kuala Lumpur system tends to be poor due to lack of trained
operating staff. Recognizing the shortcomings, training courses in water
treatment plant operation have been held.



- 12 -
5.06      In 1972 IWD had 1,331 approved staff positions comprising 393
regular technical and non-technical staff and 938 skilled and semi-skilled
laborers. About 14% of the total positions -- 40 regular staff including
5 engineers and some 30 technicians and 159 in the labor categories -- are
vacant. Wherever possible, experienced skilled laborers are being used
to overcome the shortage of professionally trained personnel. The shortage
of technical staff is expected to continue for the next two to three years
until graduates from the new training institutions become available.
Management Systems
5.07      Procedures have been developed by WD and are in regular use for
collecting and reporting technical and commercial information. W4D furnishes
the Bank regular reports of its operations. Procedures for collection and
reporting of financial information developed by the management consultants
(paragraph 5.02) were in operation until October 1970. Since then, due to
inadequate staff at times and frequent changes in supervisory personnel
(paragraph 5.04), financial reporting has not functioned satisfactorily.
iWD recognizes the value of the reporting system and plans to revive it in
early 1973 as soon as the present accounting delays mentioned in paragraph
5.08 are overcome.
5.08      A public utility accounting system was developed for WD in 1970
by the management consultants and financial statements were prepared for
WD. The system provides for the identification of assets, revenues and
costs of water supplies in each district of the state. Since then, although
the system is in use, WiD has also continued to maintain financial records
on a cash basis in compliance with its original requirements as a government
department. This was due to the hesitancy of the State Government in setting
up WD as a financially separate unit with its own system of accounting and
financial management as required under the loan agreement (Loan 561-MA) in
connection with the first stage project. Several alternative proposals
such as a separate bank account for WD, an imprest account, and creation of
a trust fund were considered by the State Government in order to meet the
objective of the loan agreement and finally in August 1972 the creation of
the Water Division as a self-accounting department was approved. These
changes in procedures together with the lack of personnel and staff changes
referred to in paragraph 5.07 have led to considerable delays in finalizing
the accounts for 1970 and 1971 which were completed only towards the end of
1972. With the past accounting arrears taken care of and the uncertainties
regarding WD's status having been resolved, it is expected that WD's accounts
will be kept on a more timely basis in future. The covenant under Loan
561-MA requiring the establishment and maintenance of WD as a financially
separate unit would be extended to the proposed loan and necessary assurances
regarding this were obtained during negotiations.
5.09      From January 1, 1973 WD has been functioning as a self-accounting
department with its own bank account. This is a revolving account of M$ 2.0
million to which all water revenues are credited and from which all expenditures
are met; any amount in excess of M$ 2.0 million in the account is subject to
withdrawal by the State Government. Any shortfall between the income and the



- 13 -
operating and capital expenditures of WD is met by the State Government. The
creation of WD as a self-accounting department will help to speed up the full
implementation of the commercial accounting system, preparation of financial
statements and provide the information for sound financial management.
5.10      Billings and revenue collection continue to be efficient and bad
debts are insignificant. There are already some 140,000 accounts and
new ones are being added rapidly. To cope with the increasing load
efficiently, WD is considering the use of more modern machines. Billing
and collection procedures are described in Annex 8.
Audit
5.11      ED's accounts are audited by the Auditor General of Malaysia.  The
quality of this audit is satisfactory and the continuation of this arrange-
ment is therefore proposed. Because of the delay in the finalization of
FY 1970 and 1971 accounts (paragraph 5.08) the audited statements were received
only in December 1972 and May 1973.
5.12      Under Loan 561-MA, the Selangor State Government had agreed to have
the accounts of the Water Division audited annually by the Auditor General
of Malaysia or by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and to transmit
annually to the Bank the audited statements of accounts not later than five
months following the close of the financial year of Selangor State Government.
The Auditor General has since pointed out that due to the delay in the completion
of inter-departmental accounts and the audit thereof, the audit of WD's
accounts cannot be completed in less than nine months after the close of the
financial year. In view of this practical problem, it was agreed during
negotiations that the audited statement of WD's accounts will be received with-
in nine months from the close of the financial year.
VI. FINANCE
General
6.01      The reorganization of the Water Division, introduction of a
commercial system of accounting, changes in procedures and establishment
of the division as a self-accounting department, all of which were measures
undertaken as part of the first project (Loan 561-MA), have contributed
towards the improvement of the financial management and operations of WD.
Operating results have steadily improved since 1968 when the first project
was appraised.
Past Performance and Present Financial Position
6.02      Between FY 1968 and FY 1971, WD's water revenues increased from
about M$ 13.5 million to about M$ 19.7 million due to growth in water sales.
Operating income more than doubled from about M$ 2.7 million to M$ 5.6
million. However, the 1971 and 1972 balance sheets do not show any cash



- 14 -
figures because prior to the reorganization of WD as a self-accounting
department (paragraph 5.09), all water revenues were paid into the State
Treasury and expenditures were met from government budget allocations.  The
financial position of WD is sound; about 44% of its long-term capitalization
is debt and 56% equity in the form of government participation and accumulated
surplus.
6.03      The water supply systems in the Kuala Lumpur area continued to
be the most profitable in the State because of their size, location and
utilization. These, together with the smaller water supply systems that
serve Klang district, form the existing supplies in the proposed project
area. In 1971, they produced about 20.0 billion gallons and accounted for
about 85% of the total revenues of WD. The other water supply systems
operated by WD are relatively small and widely scattered. In 1971 these
small systems were used to produce only about 4.0 billion gallons as against
their total installed capacity of about 7.3 billion gallons. Revenues from
these small systems cover operating costs excluding depreciation. These
systems were built prior to the first project (Loan 561-MA) under which the
Selangor State Government had agreed that it would review with the Bank
annually or at such other intervals as the Bank shall request its investment
program for water supply projects as a means to ensure more effective
control over future capital expenditures on water supplies in the State.
WD has since reviewed with the Bank annually its investment programs and the
overall planning has improved. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that this agreement will be extended to the proposed loan.
6.04      The project discussed in this report is the largest in WD's
investment program for the near future. Capital requirements for water
supply schemes in other areas of the State have been estimated by WD and
are included in the financing plan and financial projections.
6.05      The financing plan for WD's construction program is in paragraph 6.06.
For WD's operations during 1971-81 the income statements are in Annex 9, the
estimated sources and application of funds in Annex 11, and the estimated
balance sheets in Annex 12. Income statements for operations in the project
area alone are shown in Annex 10 for purposes of comparison with the state-
wide water supply operations. The assumptions made for the financial projec-
tions are given in Annex 13.
Financing Plan
6.06      The financing plan for WD's development program including the
project, during 1973-77 is summarized below:



- 15 -
M$          US$           Percentage
-----000's-----
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditures
Completion of First Stage
Project                           5,000     1,969               5.4
Proposed Second Stage
Project                          66,600    26,220              71.8
Other Construction by WD           19,100     7,520              20.6
Increase in Working Capital             2,000        787               2.2
92,700    36,496             100.0
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation           60,557    23,841
Less: Debt Service
Requirements               26,690    10,508
Niet Cash Generated                33,867    13,333              36.5
First IBRD Loan                     3,800     1,496               4.1
Proposed IBRD Loan                 34,290    13,500              37.0
State Government Contributed
Capital                          20,743     8,167              22.4
92,700    36,496             100.0
6.07      The proposed loan of US$13.5 million equivalent would cover about
37% of WD's development program for 1973-77, self-generated funds would cover
about 37%, the first Bank loan about 4%, and the balance will be provided by
the State Government. The funds provided by the State Government would be
for expenditures or, schemes outside the project area. The proposed financing
plan is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
State Government of Selangor will provide all funds required for completion
of the project and other water supply construction undertaken by WD during
the project construction period.
6.08      It is proposed that the Bank loan would be for a period of 20
years including a grace period of 5 years. The Malaysian Government would
relend the proceeds of the loan to Selangor State Government on the same
terms as the Bank loan.
Water Charges
6.09      Details of existing water charges are in Annex 14.  All service
connections are metered. The schedule of charges includes a fixed minimum
monthly charge and a rate per thousand gallons, both of which are different
for domestic (US$0.39 per 1,000 gallons) and non-domestic consumers. These
water charges, which have been in force since January 1966, are uniform
throughout the State and are at about the same level as the charges for



16 -
similar services in other states in Malaysia and in Singapore.  In addition
to the water cnarges WD collects from all non-government consumers a deposit
sufficient to cover the estimated cost of two months' supply of water. From
January 1972 public standpipes are also metered and a charge at the domestic
rate is raised against the State Government for the water consumed.
6.10      The water charges have been established with a view to earn
sufficient revenues to make the water supply operations in the state as a
whole profitable. The present water charges do not cover the full costs of
the systems in the outlying areas because of the nature of these systems as
described in paragraph 6.03. The use of uniform charges means that the
project area systems subsidize the water supply to the population in the
outlying areas to some extent but it represents a practical solution for
the better utilization of existing facilities. Recognizing this, the
Government of Selangor had decided to maintain uniform water charges through-
out the State and agreed under Loan 561-MA not to lower charges outside the
project area. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that water charges
will be the same throughout the State.
6.11      The State Government encourages the people in the outlying areas
to nave house service connections wherever feasible. To facilitate this, the
State Government initiated in 1970 an "installment plan" under which WD
provides the house service connection and recovers the cost from the householder
in not more than 36 monthly installments. The maximum distance from the main
is generally kept under 300 ft and the average cost per connection which
includes one tap in the house comes to about M$ 180 and the minimum monthly
installment is fixed at M$ 5. The plan is intended to help particularly
the poorer people and is applicable only for domestic connections where the
mnonthly family income does not exceed M$ 300. This scheme has been enthusias-
tically received by the people and it has resulted in an increase of house
service connections (about 6,000 up to October 1972) and reduction of public
standpipes in the outlying areas. The scheme has also helped to improve the
quality of service without additional cost to WD.
6.12      Under the existing loan, 561-NA, the Selangor State Government has
agreed to establish and maintain charges for water supply by WD throughout
Selangor, wihich will provide revenues sufficient to cover the operating ex-
penses of the Water Division, including adequate maintenance and depreciation
and specifically to produce out of the revenues from the supply of water in
the Kuala Lumpur area an annual return of not less than 8% on the net fixed
assets in service in that area. With the existing water rates, the above
rate covenant is being met and returns in excess of 8% have been achieved
during the past years in the Kuala Lumpur area.
6.13      In tile proposed project area (Kuala Lumpur and Klang districts) if
the present water rates are not changed projections indicate that the returns
would be generally in excess of 8% except for FY 1978 and FY 1979 (Annex
10).  Lower returns of about 6.3% in FY 1978 and 7.1% in FY 1979 are accepta-
ble because of the substantial increase in the asset base following comple-
tion of the second stage project at the end of 1977. For all water supply
operations in the State the returns would vary from about 5% to 7% during



- 17 -
FY 1970 to 1981 except for 1978 when the return would be about 4.6% (Annex 9).
The returns on a state-wide basis are lower than that in the project area
because of the small, widely scattered water supply systems, some of which
have excess capacities which will not be fully utilized for many years
(paragraphs 6.03 and 6.10). These returns provide sufficient cash for oper-
ating expenses and debt service. On the basis of existing water charges,
internal cash generation will be sufficient to meet all the local currency
needs of the project and interest and other charges on the Bank loan during
construction. No change in the water charges is therefore proposed. During
negotiations agreement was reached that water charges will be maintained at
such a level to produce out of the revenues from the supply of water in the
project area an annual return of not less than 8% on the net fixed assets
in service in that area except for FY 1978 and FY 1979 when the returns will
be not less than 6%.
Future Finances
6.14      The projections show that water revenues would nearly double
from about M$ 19.7 million in 1971 to about M$ 36.6 million in 1981 and that
net income would more than double during this period (Annex 9). Debt as a
percentage of long-term capitalization would be satisfactory throughout the
period, ranging between 38% and 44% (Annex 12). Debt service coverage
ranging from 1.92 to 2.86 is very good for all the years covered by the
projections (Annex 11). Cash is shown remaining at M$ 2.0 million from
1973 to 1981 (Annex 12) for the reasons explained in paragraph 5.09. From
1971 to 1977 the State Government would provide about M4$ 26.0 million
towards capital works outside the project area totalling to nearly M$ 30.0
million, but from 1978 onwards Government would start receiving some of this
money back from WD's surpluses. The projections indicate that between 1978
and 1981, WD would be able to finance capital expenditures of about M$ 22.0
million from its own resources.
VII. AGREEMIENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) Adequate steps will be taken for proper maintenance
of the Langat dam after construction, and the
systematic collection of hydrological data for the
Langat river basin will be continued (paragraph 3.08);
(b) The Selangor State Government will take steps to control
the discharge.of sewage effluents from inhabited areas and
industries into the Langat river (paragraph 3.15);
(c) The Water Division will be maintained as financially
separate unit (paragraph 5.08); and



-18-
(d) Selangor State Government will maintain water charges
sufficient to provide revenues representing a return
of not less than 8% per annum on the net fixed assets in
operation in the project area except for FY 1978 and FY
1979 when the returns will be not less than 6% (paragraph
6.13).
7.02      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$13.5 million
equivalent for a term of 20 years including a grace period of five years.
May 2, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Existing Water Supply and Sewerage in Klang Valley Region
1.        The locations of existing water supply works serving the Klang
valley region are shown in Map IBRD 10288.
Bukit Nanas Works
2.        The treatment works is located in the hills of Bukit Nanas and
draws its raw water from the Klang Gates impounding reservoir with a capa-
city of 4300 IMg. The Klang Gates Dam, a reinforced concrete structure
constructed in 1955 on the upper reaches of the Sungei Klang (Klang river)
just north of Kuala Lumpur, commands a catchment area of 29 square miles of
forest reserve. The reliable yield of the reservoir is 32 IMgd.
3.        The intake arrangements permit water to be drawn from the reser-
voir at various levels and pH correction with lime is done at the intake.
Two interconnected concrete lined steel mains of 45 in. and 46 in. diameter
respectively convey raw water by gravity from Klang gates reservoir to Bukit
Nanas treatment plant.
4.        The treatment process consists of aeration, chemical coagulation
followed by clarification, rapid sand filtration, pH control and cholorina-
tion. The works include a chemical and bacteriological laboratory for
carrying out routine tests on the quality of water. The treatment plant
has a capacity of 38 IMgd but is normally operated at 33 to 34 IMgd.
5.        Storage for the treated water is provided at Bukit Nanas in two
reinforced concrete reservoirs of 8 IMg total capacity. Water from the
Bukit Nanas works is delivered to Kuala Lumpur by gravity.
Gombak Works
6.        The treatment works constructed in 1970 draws its raw water
from an intake on the Gombak river at mile 13 which commands a catchment
area of 17 sq. miles of forest reserve. The reliable yield of the source
is 6 IMgd but the capacity of the treatment works is 4 IMgd.
7.        The treatment process consists of chemical coagulation, followed
by clarification, rapid sand filtration, pH control and cholorination.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Kepong Headworks
8.        The works constructed before 1940, draws raw water from an intake
on the Sungei Keroh with a catchment area of 0.4 sq. miles. A cholorinated
supply of about 0.5 IMgd is provided from this source.
Ampang Impounding Reservoir
9.        A 40 DMg reservoir constructed in 1892 provides a supply of about
0.5 IMgd. The reservoir is filled by a pipeline from the upper reaches of
Ampang river commanding a catchment area of 2 sq. miles in the Ampang
forest reserve. Water is generally clear and it requires only cholorination
before distribution.
Ampang Intake
10.       A weir across the Ampang river constructed in 1902 commands a
catchment area of about 7 sq. miles. The treatment works has a capacity
of 3.5 IMgd and provides for chemical coagulation, clarification and chlo-
rination before the water is distributed.
Subang Airport Works
11.       The treatment works consisting of conventional rapid gravity
filters, draws water from an intake pumping installation on the Sungei
Buloh (Buloh river) commanding a catchment area of 24 sq. miles. The
works constructed in 1964 has a capacity of 1.44 IMgd. It was originally
intended to supply the Subang International Airport. As the water con-
sumption at the airport is only a small percentage of the works capacity,
the supply has now been extended to include the Sungei Buloh and Subang
villages. From one of the tributaries of the Sungei Buloh, about 0.35 DMgd
is also drawn and treated at the Sungei Buloh works which were constructed
before 1940.
Damansara Works
12.       This source between Subang and Batu Tiga draws water from the
Damansara river. Water is pumped from the Damansara river through an intake
pumping station to an impounding reservoir from which it is again pumped
to a treatment plant. The cost of production is therefore high. The catch-
ment area of about 48 sq. miles consists of forest reserve, rubber and oil
palm estates, tin mines and inhabited areas. The Damansara works were
constructed in 1965 with a capacity of 10 IMgd but tin mining operations in
the catchment area discharge a heavy silt load in the river which gives
problems at the intake. The yield from the river has on occasions dropped
to 6.5 IMgd. At present the normal capacity of the works is about 9.0 DMgd.
13.       The treatment process consists of chemical coagulation, clarifica-
tion, rapid gravity filtration, pH correction and chlorination.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
North Hummock Works
14.       This plant provides a gravity supply to Klang town and surrounding
areas. It was constructed in 1950 and the treatment plant draws water from
the Subang impounding reservoir with a storage capacity of 760 lMg located
in the hills north of Klang. The treatment capacity of about 6.0 IMgd is
in excess of the reliable yield of the reservoir and water has to be pumped
from the River Buloh to the reservoir to make up the difference.
15.       The treatment works consist of conventional rapid gravity filter
units. The raw water quality is uneven due to algal growths and care is
needed in the operation of the treatment plant to produce water of uniform
quality.
Cheras Works
16.       Raw water for the Cheras works is taken from the Langat river
downstream of the Kuala Lumpur first stage project intake. The works con-
sist of conventional rapid gravity treatment plant with a capacity of about
6 IMgd. Only 0.5 IMgd from this treatment plant is supplied to the Klang
valley region.
Distribution System
17.       The bulk of the water supply is at present drawn from the Bukit
Nanas works which supplies the whole of Kuala Lumpur and most of Petaling
Jaya. The balance of the Petaling Jaya supply comes by gravity from
Damansara works which also makes up the balance of the demand required by
Klang and Port Klang which cannot be provided from North Hummock works.
The remaining sources supply water to their immediate environment.
18.       The existing distribution system is served mainly by a gravity
supply from the various sources discussed above. These sources are located
in hilly areas outside the area of demand except Bukit Nanas treatment plant
which is located on top of a hill in the center of Kuala Lumpur. Where
gravity supply is not feasible pumping is done locally to serve the high
level areas.
19.       The practice so far has been to use asbestos cement pipes for
distribution mains up to 24 in. diameter and to use steel pipes for the larger
mains. The length of all mains larger than 2 in. diameter laid in the
water supply systems of Selangor State was about 2314 miles at the end of
June 30, 1972 of which 1356 miles were in the Klang valley region.
Project under Construction (Loan 561-MA)
20.       The project consists of construction of a weir across the Langat
river near Mile 10 on the Ulu Langat road, a pumping station to house raw
and treated water pumps, a treatment plant of 14 DMgd capacity, chemical
house, laboratory, stores, office and houses for operating staff,



ANNEX 1
Page 4
21.       The project also includes the laying of a 48 in. diameter 3000 ft
long treated water pumping main to a 2 million gallon prestressed concrete
reservoir from which water will flow by gravity to two terminal reservoirs
at 4-1/2 million and 2-1/2 million gallons capacity respectively. The
transmission main from the balancing reservoir to the terminal reservoir
is 33 in. diameter steel pipes for about 37,000 ft.  Extension of the
distribution system in the Kuala Lumpur area by some 65,000 ft of 15 in.
to 36 in. diameter pipes and purchase of some 20,000 water meters are also
included in the project.
22.       The intake works, treatment plant, pumping station, balancing
reservoir, and connecting pipelines, have all been completed except for minor
works and a partial supply of about 3.0 IMgd is being made from the works
since September 1972. The two prestressed concrete terminal reservoirs
and some of the distribution systems are yet to be completed.
January 17, 1973



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUNPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Description of the Project
1.        The project includes the construction of a dam on the Langat
river at mile 24 northeast of Kuala Lumpur, provision of additional raw
and treated water pumps and treatment facilities of 28 IMgd capacity at
the existing Langat river intake works at mile 10, construction of addi-
tional service reservoirs and distribution mains in the Klang valley
region (project area).
2.        The project forms a part of the long-range development plan for
water supply to the Klang valley region prepared by Binnie & Partners, con-
sultants engaged by the Selangor State Government. The study indicated
that the water demand in the project area would increase by about 120 IMgd
in the next 20 years. Alternative means of meeting the demand were exa-
mined and the development of the Langat river in stages, of which the pro-
ject forms the second stage, was selected as the most feasible and economic.
The reservoir formed by the proposed dam would be developed as a regulating
reservoir to augment the yield in the Langat river at the mile 10 intake
works in order that a reliable supply of 85 IMgd would be obtained. The
treatment plant will be expanded in stages to 85 IMgd total capacity and
bulk terminal storage reservoirs for treated water would be located at Sungei
Midah, Jalan Kuchai, Castlefield and Petaling hills to serve as focal points
for distribution. The remaining 35 IMgd would be obtained at the lower
Langat site by direct abstraction. The proposed developments are shown
in Map IBRID 10288.
Langat Dam
3.        The proposed dam referred to as the mile 24 dam will have a
maximum height of 175 feet. At the dam site the Langat river drains a
catchment area of 16 sq. miles comprising mainly forest reserves. The
reservoir formed by the dam will have a gross storage capacity of 10,000
11g and a surface area of about 650 acres.
4.        The boreholes along the center line of the proposed dam show
bed rock at reasonable depth. Site investigations have indicated that
suitable material is available nearby to construct an earth dam. A con-
crete cut-off will be required across the valley bottom. Two saddle dams
are also necessary, one on each flank, and because of the steepness of the
natural ground in the vicinity of the saddle dams, ground treatment will be
required in the form of extra filling at the abutments and trimming of
existing slopes. A stream entering the reservoir near the right abutment
will need to be diverted to clear the upstream toe of the dam.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        During detailed design of the dam, use of concrete for the main
and saddle dams would be considered and adopted if cost savings are likely.
Details of the arrangements to let water into the river would also be
decided then.
Intake Works
6.        The existing intake works and pumping station do not require any
extensions. Two 15 IMgd raw water pumps and two 15 IMgd treated water pumps
and the associated electrical plant will be installed under the project.
Treatment Plant
7.        A new treatment plant will be built adjacent to the existing treat-
ment works. The treatment process will consist of coagulation with aluminum
sulphate, clarification, filtration, pH adjustment and chlorination. The
new plant will have about 28 IMgd capacity sedimentation tanks and 28 IMgd
capacity filter units. The detailed design of the sedimentation and fil-
tration units will be based on a study of the performance of the recently
built first stage treatment plant. Existing chemical stores, administration
building and laboratory are adequate and no extensions are proposed under
the project.
Service Reservoirs
8.        Two bulk storage reservoirs of 5 IMg capacity at Petaling hill
and 4 IMg capacity at Castlefield estate will be built. In addition,
a dozen smaller service reservoirs will be built at different locations for
effective distribution.
Pumping and Transmission Mains
9.        The existing pumping main is adequate for raw water conveyance
to the treatment plant and a 46 in. diameter 5000 ft long steel main will be
laid for pumping the treated water to the existing balancing reservoir. A
49 in. diameter steel main 12,000 ft long will deliver the additional quan-
tity of water from the balancing reservoir to the Sungei Midah terminal
reservoirs. From the terminal reservoirs a 46 in. diameter 10,500 ft long
steel main will deliver water to the Castlefield estate reservoir through a
38 in. diameter 14,500 ft long steel main and to the Petaling hill reservoir
through a 27 in. diameter 16,500 ft long steel main. The sizes of these
mains will be reviewed further during detailed design.
Distribution System
10.       The project will include laying some 224,000 ft of 8 in. to
45 in. diameter distribution mains to improve and extend the supply in the
project area.  Water meters will be installed as needed and the cost of
some 40,000 meters is included in the estimates.
January 17, 1973



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMFPU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Project Cost Estimates
------------------ Local Costs ----------------              ----------------- Foreign Costs ----------------
Sub                                                             Sub
Year ending December 31      1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    Total                   1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    Total    TOTAL
----------------------------------------------- M$ Millions ---------------------________________
Investigation & Survey       0.26    0.11     -       0.01     -       0.38                  0.11                                       0.11     o.49
Land & Compensation           -      0.58    0.35    0.01      -       o.94                   -       -            -       -    -        -       0.94
Dam including Control Gate
valves etc.                  -      0.49    3.90    3.92    3.42    11.73                    -      0.39    3.28    3.46    2.79       9.92    21.65
Intake and pumping plant      -      0.05    0.02      -       -       0.07                   -      o.48    0.15      -       -        o.63     0.70
Treatment plant               -      1.25    0.57    0.10      -       1.92                   -      1.72    o.68    0.09      -        2.49     4.41
Transmission and
Distribution pipelines)       -      1.93    1.76    0.63    0.03      4.35                   -      4.52    4.06    2.50    0.05    11.13    15.48
Distribution reservoirs)
and pumping station    )      -      1.13    0.96    0.44    0.04      2.57                   -      0.92    0.79    0.35    0.03       2.09     4.66
Water meters                  -      0.12    0.12    0.12      -       0.36                   -      0.28    0.28    0.28       -       o.84     1.20
Sub Total:           0.26    5.66    7-.8      .23    3       22.32                  0 .11    8.31       2.                     27.21
Consulting Services          1.18    1.64    0.61    0.45    0.25      4.13                  0.21    0.29    0.11    0.08    0.03       0.72     4.85
Contingencies:
Physical                  -      0.52    0.74    0.54    0.33      2.13                   -      0.72    o.88    0.60    0.27       2.47     4.60
Price                    0.06    o.63    1.08    1.11    o.85      3.73                  0.01    0.75    1.23    1.20    0.70       3.89     7.62
TOTAL                1.50    8.45   10.11    7.33    4.92    32.31                   0.33   10.07   11.46    8.56    3.87    34.29    66.60
December 18, 1972






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Construction Schedule
YEAR|                                                     1973                                      1974                                        1975                                        1976                                       1977
TIME  IN  MONTHS                             0      2      4      6      8      10     12    14       16    18      20     22     24      26    28      30     32      34     36     38      40    42      44      46    48      50      52     54     56    58    60
1.    Lend acquisition
2.   Topogeaphrcai survey
3.    Site investigation   Dam  &  reservoirs
4.   Supply of transmission  pipes, specials, valves and firt ngs
5.    Pumping plant                                                                                                                                                              .......
6     Plectrival plant
7.   T-eatmnent plant
8     Cvil engineering  -nacks  Trnatment works and resatnoirs
______ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ _____ ______ ______ _____ ____   nCom mi sionin   of  ttvtm n   w owork
9.   Transmission  plpe laying                                                                                                                                                                                            f _           -
10    Dam  and ancilary  workst
11.   Model analysis                                                           r :-------...............
12.   Hydrological studies                                         r.                                               .
13.   Supply of pipes, specials, calves and fittings and
distribution system
14.   Ttunk mains laying
15    Civil engineer-lg ssnrks. service reservoirs and
pumping station and distribctnn system                      _i _                                                                                            1
LEGEND
5P  M.nuf--ul
i .;.L.  1             u trve7
Land arnutiltion                                                                                                                                                            World Bank-7233(2Ri






ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD                           Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                       at end of Quarter
and Quarter                            US$ 000's                 Percentage
1974
Second                                 130                      1.0
Third                                1,120                      8.3
Fourth                               2,110                     15.6
1975
First                               3,105                      23.0
Second                              4,095                      30.3
Third                                5,220                     38.7
Fourth                               6,350                     47.0
1976
First                                7,480                     55.4
Second                               8,605                     63.7
Third                               9,450                      70.0
Fourth                              10,290                     76.2
1977
First                              11,135                      82.5
Second                              11,975                     88.7
Third                               12,355                     91.5
Fourth                              12,740                     94.4
1978
First                               13,120                     97.2
Second                              13,500                    100.0
April 25, 1973






MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
PROJECT AREA POPULATION AND WATER PRODUCTION STATISTICS AND PROJECTIONS
40                                       -        
35 1
30
000
Z               0                                                                                                                            __
0I
1900
20  0              ~~~~~Existing Worns Output 20.1 Billion Gallons              _________
F- l)                     -      -                                           
.ciz    ~ ~  ~       ~       ~ ~ Iz
<~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1500
<   15                                        _  _  _  _ _ _    _  _  _   _ _ __                                 _                                                             1300 
2
F-
1100
1 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
700
Projnctnd  -                           ~~~~~~~300
1964    1965      1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971           1972     1973    1974      1975    1976       1977     1978    1979       1980    1981
World Bank - 7338






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Internal Financial Rate of Return
1t,88 to
Year Ending December 31              1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986     1987        1997
Incremental Anniual Water Seles IMg              -        -         -        1,048    2,R94    3,787    5,302    6,899    8,687   10,394   12,100   13,961   15,8'3   17,840   19,856                21,873
-----------------------------------------------------------____M$ OOO's-------------------------______________________________________________
Incremental Water Revenue                        -        -         -        1,100    2,514    3,976    5,567    7,244    9,121   10,914   12,705   14,659   16,614   18,732   20,849                2:,967
Incremental Operating Costs                      -        _         - _490    1,120    1,750    2,2450    3,150    3,920    4,690    5,460    6,300    7,140    8,050    8,960                         9,870
Incremental Cash Flow                            _ -                -          610    1,394    2,226    3,117    4,o94    5,201    6,224    7,245    8,359    9,474   10,682   11,889                 13,097
Project Cost                                  1,760   17,140   19,260    13,580    7,240          -        3,000    3,000    4,000    2,000          500       500       500       500      -           -
Internal Financial Rate of Return
is Approximately                            8.6'
NOTE: Incremental water sales do not include increases due to reduction in
unaccnunted-fo-w w_'er from existing supplies.  Incremental water sales
.'  in  hi a     -s SL - t l .' ",re  -  ller than those shown in Annex 10.
December 8, 1972
5' a3
HZ>



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Assumptions for Estimating the Internal
Financial Rate of Return
1.        The rate of return calculation takes as benefits the incremental
revenues earned by the project and takes as costs the project costs and the
incremental operating costs net of depreciation. All revenues and costs
are at 1972 price levels and do not include taxes.
2.        The following assumptions have been made for the calculations
shown on page 1 of this Annex.
Incremental water sales are derived as follows:
(i) In 1976 the first 3.5 IMg per day is utilized
as the Stage One project supplies sufficient
water to this point.
(ii) The following quantities are utilized in the
years as shown making up the total water produced
by the Stage Two Project of 28.0 IMg in 1981.
1977 -  1978    4.5 IMg per day
1979 -  1980    5.0 IMg per day
1981             5.5 IMg per day
(iii) The following quantities are then estimated to
be utilized in the years as shown to make full
use of the potential of the dam to the total of
85 IMg.
1982 -  1983    5.5 IMg
1984 -  1985    6.0 IMg
1986 -  1988    6.5 IMg
(iv) The proportion of water produced taken into account
for calculating incremental water revenue is 82% in
1976, rising to 85% in 1981 and remaining at that
point until the end of the 25-year calculation period.
(v) The rate of charge per 1,000 gallons used in cal-
culating the incremental water revenue is M$1.05
which is the average rate of billing in the Kuala
Lumpur and Klang area in 1970-1971. No change in
this rate is anticipated.
(vi) The incremental operating costs are calculated on
the basis of the estimated operating costs of
producing 1 IMg of water per day in 1972 of
M$140,000 per annum. This tends to overstate the
operating cost.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(vii) The estimated additional investment required in
order to fully use the 85 IMgd are shown as
project costs through to 1986.
3.        The return on the basis of the above assumptions is about 8.6%.
The return is sensitive to variations in project cost and operating cost.
A 10% increase in the project cost or operating cost would reduce the
return to about 7.8% and a 10% decrease in the project cost or operating
cost would increase the return to about 9.5%.
January 17, 1973






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
ORGANIZATION CHART OF SELANGOR STATE WATER DIVISION
CHIEF MINISTER (MENTRI BESAR)
I
EXECUTIVE STATE COUNCIL
I
|STATE SECRETARY |
|STATE FINANCIAL OFFICER|
SELANGOR   WATER DIVISION
SUPERINTENDING ENGINEER
Planning & Construction                   Production & Distribution                      Accounting Section                        Administration Section
Section                                    Section
Senior Engineer                       Senior Executive Engineer                      Chief Accountant                               Chief Clerk
Development Planning                       Production & Treatment                   * Accounting                                * Administration
Design of Projects                         Distribution                             * Budget                                    * Personnel
Construction Supervision                   Maintenance & Stores                     * Purchasing                                * Correspondence                        i 
Waste Detection                            Billing, Collections                        Filing & Record                      (D D
5 Units                                                                                & Payments                                  Keeping                               1 OD
* Consumer Services                      * Internal Audit
* Meter Reading                                                                           3 Units
* Quality Control
7Units      .                                                                                      World Bank - 7232(R)






ANNEX 8
Page 2
Notes on the Organization of the Water Division
1.        The Selangor Public Works Water Division (WD) was originally
organized on the basis of recommendations made by W.D. Scott & Co., an
Australian firm of Management Consultants financed under Loan 561-MA. The
consultants had recommended the establishment of a Management Board with
the State Engineer as Chairman and the State Financial Officer, the Super-
intending Engineer (Water) and two non-officials as members. The intention
was that the Management Committee would be responsible for supervising day-
to-day operations and assist in formulating policy for Government's appro-
val. The Committee has not been established so far but WD has been given
the status of a separate department under the direct control of the State
Secretary who is the Chief Executive Officer for the State Government.
The Superintending Engineer (Water) functions as the General 'Manager of
the Water Division and is its Chief Executive Officer. The present orga-
nization chart is shown on page 1 of this annex.
2.        The Water Supply Division is organized on a functional basis under
four sections. The largest among these is the production and distribution
section under the charge of a Senior Executive Engineer who also functions
as the Chief of the Water Supply Division in the absence of the Superintend-
ing Engineer. The production and distribution section is responsible for
water treatment and operation and maintenance of all water supply systems
in the State. It is also responsible for quality control, meter reading,
consumer services, waste detection, maintenance of facilities and stores.
Seven different units under the section deal with these functions. Of
these, three are to be under the Charge of Engineers, three under technical
assistants and one under a chemist. The three engineering positions are
vacant at present.
3.        The planning and construction section under the charge of a
senior engineer is responsible for development planning, design of projects
and construction supervision. The senior Engineer's position is at present
vacant. The organizational chart includes five units under this section,
four under the charge of engineers and one under a technical assistant.
One of the engineering positions is vacant. The construction units operate
in close liaison with district engineers of the State PWD who assist in
overseeing the construction and certify payments for works constructed.
The water supply division's technical assistants also supervise construction
directly wherever posible. When the two engineering vacancies in the
section are filled, it is proposed that all water supply activities in the
districts will be taken over entirely by the Water Division's staff.
Additional clerical staff will be assigned to the districts to assist in
the taking over of the administrative and financial work from the PWD dis-
trict engineers.
4.        The accounting section is under the charge of a chartered
accountant. He is assisted by three units under him, and is responsible for
all accounting functions of the Water Division, budget control, billings,
collections, handling and accounting of cash, salaries administration and
preparation of budget and periodical financial statements. He advises the



I



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Superintending Engineer (Water) on all financial matters relating to the
division.
5.        The administration section under the charge of a chief clerk
assists the Superintending Engineer in the overall administration of the
division and on personnel matters. It also handlet all correspondence,
filing and record-keeping for thg Water Division.
6.        The electrical and mechanical equipment used in the water supply
systems and the transport vehicles are being maintained by the Senior
Mechanical Engineer of the State PWD. He also supervises the Water Divi-
sion's meter workshops. In order to take over these functions the Water
Division has recruited a technical assistant (electrical) and is in the
process of recruiting a technical assistant (mechanical). To begin with,
the new staff will work under the supervision of the mechanical engineer
but eventually the Water Division will have its own workshops and staff
for carrying out these functions. At present the water meters store is
also under the mechanical engineer. The water meters, spare parts, etc.
are purchased however from the Water Division's funds and expenditures
for maintenance works, purchase of chemical, etc. are authorized by the
Senior Executive Engineer in charge of production and distribution of water.
7.        The Water Division does not have a separate central store for
its materials and equipment. There is a main store for Kuala Lumpur district
and one in Petaling Jaya under the charge of storekeepers. In each of
the other districts the general PWD stores include water supply stores
which are physically separately maintained and accounted for. In most
treatment plants a stock of chemicals and other stores required for each
plant are kept in a small store under the direct control of the Plant
Superintendent. Inventory levels are decided by the Superintending Engineer
and the Senior Executive Engineer. Since the chemicals and most items are
readily available in the country, the inventory levels are generally low.
In the case of pipes, however, the inventory tends to be large at times due
to the purchase at the end of the financial year with a view to utilizing
the budget allocations fully. Under the existing government regulations
(Treasury instructions) two officers of the Water Division are required
to make a spot check of all Water Division's stores every quarter and make
a detailed check once a year. In future, a half-yearly inventory report
will also be received by the Superintending Engineer.
8.        Water bills are prepared for all consumers at the Water Division's
main office in Kuala Lumpur, indicating consumer's name, address, account
number, details of any amounts outstanding, etc. and are sent to the
districts for completion. The meter readers calculate the amount due on
the basis of consumption recorded and hand over one copy of the bill to the
consumer and send another to the Water Division's headquarters for verifi-
cation and posting into the consumer's accounts. Domestic consumers are
billed once in two months and others every month. The payment of bills is
mostly done through the collection offices maintained by the Water Division.
In the outlying areas, local authorities collect on behalf of the Water
Division for a small fee.
January 17, 1973






MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMP[JR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECONI) STAGE
Selangor Water Division
Income Statements 1971-1981
Year ending December 31           1971        1972        1973         1974        1975         1976         1977        1978         1979         1980        1981
Actual     Probable      _____---                     -     --           Estimate -------------------------------------------
Water Produced (fl'g)                                      23,573       24,250      26,060       27,850      29,640       31,460      33,250       35,080       37,080      39,090       41,320
Water Sold (DIg)                                           18,329       19,000      20,460       22,150      23,600       25,340      26,820       28,630       30,300      32,310       34,540
t Water Sold to Water Produced                               77.8         78.3        78.5         79.5        79.6         80.5        80.7         81.6         81.7        82.7         83.6
----------------------------__  _  __ __  _  _- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - --- -  M$   000 's  -------------- - ------_ - -_-- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ---- - ---__ -____-_----_-_-_- __-_-_-_-
REVENUES
Water Sales                                             18,979       19,683      21,204       22,982      24,544       26,364       27,907      29,829       31,579      33,723       36,059
Connection Fees and Charges                                698          469         369          384         399          415         431          449          467         487          508
Other Fees                                                  35           37          39           41          43           45          48           51           54          57           60
Total Billings                                    19,712       20,189      21,612       23,1407     226,824 28,8                          30,329       32,100           7       36,627
Less:  Provision for Bad Debts                             -             20          10           10          10           10           10          10           10           10          10
Net Billings                                      19,712       20,169      21,602       23,397      21,976       26,814      28,376       30,319       32,090      34,257       36,617
Other Income                                                37           35          35           35          35           35           35          35           35           35          35
Total Revenues                                    19,749       20,204      21,637      23,432       25,011       26,849      28,411       30,354       32,125      34,292       36,652
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel                                                4,814        5,079       5,358        5,653       5,964        6,292        6,638       7,003        7,388       7,794        8,223
Electricity                                               1,352       1,437       1,653        1,870       2,087        2,308        2,525       2,746        2,989        3,232       3,502
Chemicals                                                1,203        1,263       1,384        1,508       1,637        1,773        1,875       2,017        2,175       2,294        2,473
Fuel                                                         57          60          66           71          78           84           91          97          105          113         122
Repairs and Maintenance                                   1,469       1,555       1,635        1,725       1,820        1,920        2,026       2,137        2,254       2,378        2,509
Connections                                                 738         422         332          346         359          374          388         404          420         438          457
Administration                                              199         210          221         234         247          260          274         289          305          322          340
Other                                                       614         648         683          721         761          802          847         893          942          994       1,049
Depreciation                                              3,657       3,774        4,314       4,617       4,699        4,792        4,817       6,582        6,657        6,657       6,832
Total Operating Costs                             14,103       14,448      15,646       16,745      17,652       18,605      19,481       22,168       23,235      24,222       25,507
Income before Interest                                       5,646       5,756       5,991        6,687       7,359        8,244        8,930       8,186        8,890       10,070      11,145
Interest                                                 2,467        2,436       2,527        3,396       3,994        4,601        4,976       5,102        4,905       4,695    4___,479
NET INCCOE                                         3,179        3,320       3,464        3,291       3,365        3,643       3,954        3,084        3,985       5,375        6,666
Average Net Fixed Assets In Service                         92,862     102,292     115,100      118,434     117,276      115,781      146,776     176,877      173,757      170,600     166,856
Percentage Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets in Service                                           6.1         5.6          5.2         5.6         6.3          7.1          6.1         4.6          5.1          5.9          6.7
NOTE: Average water charge per 1,000 gallons  = M$1.04



MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Klang Valley Region (Project Area)
Income Statements 1971-1981
Year ending December 31               Actual  Probable                                                     Estimate
1971       1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977         1978        1979        1980        1981
Water Produced (IMg)                                        19,509     20,080     21,720     23,360     25,000      26,640     28,290      29,930      31,760       33,580      35,590
Water Sales (IMg)                                           15,536     16,060     17,374      18,922     20,252     21,849     23,195      24,842       26,357      28,207      30,249
* Water Sold to Water Produced                                79.6       80.0       80.0       81.0        81.0       82.0       82.0        83.0        83.0         84.0        85.0
--------------------------  __------ -----------_----_    M$     000  s    --__ - - - -- - - - ------------_ _- _ __ _ _  ------------------------__
NWter salgs                                              16,311     16,863      18,243    l,868      21,265     22,941     24,355      26,084       27,675      29,617      31,761
ConanctiQP Fees and Charges                                 414        326         269        280        291        3O02       314         327          340         354         369
Okher Fees                                                   3                                                       41         4           45           47          50          5
Total ailiimnge                                                                                                         _dI                                  ,A
Ta  Ilig  16,757    17,2Z2 7os54                                                     -2471f                                                    28,062 3,8
Less: Provisiom for Bad Debts                                 -         20         .1          10         1D         10         10          10           10          10          10
Net Billings                   16,757                                                              2b, 8X  37c 30,Cn 173
Otber Revemas3                                                          35 35                                   35                                                    35   35
Total Revenues                                                17,237     18,572      20,210          0     23,309      4,737                   28,087      30,046     -32.?0
OPERATING CoSTS
Personnel                                                 3,708       3,832      4,043      4,265      4,500      4,747      5,008        5,284       5,574       5,881       6,204
Electricity                                                 919         993      1,205      1,417      1,630      1,842      2,055        2,268       2,505       2,740       3,000
Chemicals                                                 1,035      1,044       1,152      1,264      1,379      1,499      1,624        1,752       1,896       2,045       2,211
Fuel                                                         16         49          54         59         64         70         76           82          89          96         103
Repairs and Maintenance                                   1,073       1,163      1,227      1,294      1,366      1,441      1,520        1,604       1,692       1,785       1,883
Connections                                                 496         293        242        252        261        272        283          294         306         319         332
Administration                                              159         168        177        187        197        208        219          231         244         257         272
Other                                                       473        499         526        555        586        618        652          688         726         766         808
Depreciation                                              2          2,755       3,295      3,582      3,537      3,500      3,427        5,337       5,305       5,183       5,224
Total Operat;ing Costs                             110,796                11,921     12,875     13,520     14,197     14864                     8,337      19,072      20,037
Income before Interest                                       6,233      6,441       6,651      7,335      8,100      9,112      9,873        8,941       9,750      10,974      12,171
Interest                                                  1,666      1           1,754      2,636      3,251      3,874      4,268       _L412        4,234       4,045       3,852
Net Income                                          4,567       4,793      4,897      4,699      4,849      5,238      5,605        4,529       5,516       6,929        8,319
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service                         67,964      76,557     88,626     90,536     86,976     83,458    113,294      142,212     136,891     131,647     126,444
Percentage Return on Net Fixed Assets in Service               9.2         8.4        7.5        8.1        9.3       10.9         8.7         6.3         (.1         8.3          9.6
NOTE: Average water charge per 1,000 gallons = M$ 1:05
April 25, 1973



MALAYSIA - KUAIA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
SELANGOR WATER DIVISION
Cash Fl.ov Projections 1971-1981
------------------_ _ _-----------M$    000 s----------------------------------------------
Year ending December 31                1971      1972      1973     1974     1975     1976      1977     1978     1979      1980    1981
SOURCES OF CASH
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income before Interest                   5,646      5,756    5,991    6,687    7,359    8,244    8,930    8,186    8,890   10,070  11,145
Depreciation                                 3,657      3,774    4,314    4,617    4,699    4,792    4,817    6,582    6,657    6,657   6,832
Accounts Payable                                 78        82       87       91        96      102      107      114       119      126      133
Deposits                             -         277        292      307      325      343       362      381      402       425      448     473
Total Internal Cash Generation            9,657      9,9D4   1069   11,720.  12'97   13,500   14,235   15284              1   17,301  15 53
Loans
First IBRD                                   1,052      3,700    3,800                        -        -                           -
Proposed IBRD                                 -          -         330   10,070   11,460    8,560    3,870      _         _
Federal                                        200        200     -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -
Total Loans                               1,252      3,900    4,130   10,070   111w      5,560    3,370      --0                         -
State Contribution                           2 752      2 543    4 271    5,552    6 802    3 410       708  ( 4 333) ( 1 510) ( 2 642)( 2,854)
TOTAL SOURCES OF CASH                                  =410      _ 2   30,759   25470   1 13   19_31                            15729
APPLICATIONS OF CASH
Capital Expenditure
First Project                                3,054      6,500    5,000
Proposed Project                               -         -       1,830   18,520   21,570   15,890    8,790      -        3,000    3,000   4,000
Other                                       14,685      6,074    6,100    3,503,5    50D    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000   3,000
Total Capital Expenditure                 9,739    32,74   12,930   22,020   25,070               11,790    3,000    6         6       7,000
Debt
Interest - First IBRD Loan                    -          _        -         608      580       551      520       487      452      415      374
- Proposed IBRD Loan                 _          _         128      439    1,118    1,810    2,276    2,500    2,400    2,300   2,200
"   - Federal Loans                 2 467      2436    2,439    2,349    2296    2240    2 180    2115    2053    1 980   1 905
Total Interest                                                2 4,527   t               3                  3,994    4,9601  t0765    V t;
Principal - First IBRD Loan                    -          180      390      420       450      480      510       540      570      615      675
- Proposed IBRD Loan                _-                  - _- _            _         _50    1,400    1,500   1,600
- Federal Loans                      784        831      883      933      986  1io42    1 102    1 167    1,229    1 302   1 377
Total Principal                                      1.011    127      3   1      , 436    15        , 6              3 199    3 417
Total Debt Service                            1      3,   7   8 0 0                         7 5 30 -3;i65W   8 -915 8713
Accounts Receivable                          800       176      214      409        87      276      244       291      266       325     354
Increase in Inventories                     131        138      146      154       162      171      181       191      201       212     224
Increase in amounts due from
Collection Agencies                       (259)       12       10       10        10       10       10        10       10       10       10
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF CASH         13 W717,               100              30,7 59              13           1    51   1 5915,729
Increase (Decrease) in Cash                       _         _       2,000     -         -
Cash at Beginning                                 -         -        -       2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2*000    2,000    2,000   2,000
Cash at End                                       -         -       2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000   2,000
Debt Service Coverage                            2.86      2.76     2.71     2.38      2.22     2.13      2.09     1.98     1.92      2.06     2.21
April 25, 1973



MALAYSIA - KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
SELANGOR WATER DIVISION
Balance Sheets 1971-1961
------------------------------------------M$ OOO's-------_____________________________________
As At December 31                  1971      1972      1973     1974     1975     1976     1977      1978     1979     1980
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Buildings Plant and Equipment           133,860   155,465  167,565  171,065  174,565  177,565  246,165  249,165  253,165  256,165  259,165
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation          40o484    44,258   48 572   53 189   57,888   62,680   67 497   74 079   80 736   87,393   94,225
Net Assets                               93,376   1 07  18, 99                116,677  114,oo5  175 66  175506r  172,429  168,772  164,940
Construction in Progress                 10 031     1 000    1,830   20 350   41,920   57,810 1B000    1 000    3 000    6 000   10 000
Total Fixed Assets                      103,       112,207  120,623  138,226  15B,597  172,695  179,668  176,066  175,429  174,772  174,940
Current Assets
Cash                                       -          -       2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
Net Accounts.Receivable                    2,842     3,018    3,232    3,641    3,728    4,004    4,248    4,539    4,805    5,130    5,484
Net Cash Due From Collection Agencies        188       200      210      220      230       240      250      260      270       280      300
Inventories                                2,513     2,651    2,797    2,951    3,113    3,284    3,465    3,656    3,857    4,069    4,293
Other                                        18         18       18       18       18        18       18       18       18        18       18
Total Current Assets                       5 561     5                          97827   8   8  T 9 _546    9981   10 473   10 950   11 497  12,095
Total Assets                       9     110_  129,O  0   W  -5          6          1  1989,64   16,3559  1837               17,035
LIABILITIES
Goveriment Participation and Equity
Vontributed Capital                      51,302    53,845   58,i16   63,668   70,470   74,170   74,878   70,545   69,035   66,393   63,539
Accumulated Surplus                        5 544     8 864   12 328   15 619   18,984   22 627   26 581   29,665   33 650   39 025   45,691
Total Equity                             56,846    62,709   70,444   7927    9,454   96,797  101!45   100,210  102,685  105v418  109,230
Debt
Federal Government Loan                   42,602    41,971   41,088   40,155   39,169   38,127   37,025   35,858   34,629   33,327   31,950
First IBRD Loan                           2,720      6,240    9,650    9,230    8,780    8,300    7,790    7,250    6,680    6,065    5,390
Proposed IBRD Loan                          -         -         330   10,1400   21,860   30,130   34,000  33,350   31,950  30 450   28 850
145,322   14i,211   51,065   59,785   69,809   76,557   78,815  76,458   73,259   6      2   66T19
Less Current Maturities                   1,011      1,273    1,353    1 436    1 522    1X612    2,357    3,199    3 1417    3 652    3,832
Total Debt                                44,311    46,938   49!715   58!349   68_ 287   74,945   763458   73.259   69  42   66.190   62.358
Total Equity and Debt                101,157   109,647  120,159  137,636  157,741  171,7[42   757 17349   727  171,b8  171,508
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                           1,493     1,575    1,662    1,753    1,849    1,951    2,058    2,172    2,291    2,417    2,550
Deposits                                   5,307     5,599    5,906    6,231    6,574    6,936    7,317    7,719    8,144    8,592    9,o65
Current Debt Maturities                   1,011      11273    1 353    1,436    1,522    1 612    2,357    3,199    3 417    3 652    3X832
Total Current Liabilities                 7811       847    8,92       9,4?0    9945   T   9   11,732   13 090               142 ,661   15447
Total Liabilities              I 5    11I9   129,0WI0  14705   167,68   1,             189,649 99  1b6,379 i67,269  18,3 12
_ _ __    _   _     _ __                 .~2~   T>F_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _  5 , 6    5 , 3
Gross Debt as a percentage of Total                                                                                                                    r
Fixed Aasets                               44         43       42       43       44        44       44       43       42        40       38
April 25, 1973



ANNEX 13
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1.        The financial statements in this report cover all water supply
operations in Selangor State at Annexes 9, 11 and 12. A separate income
statement is shown in respect of the operations in the project area (Kuala
Lumpur and Klang districts) at Annex 10. The figures for 1971 are based
on draft financial statements. Audited financial statements for 1971
were only received in May 1973.
Income Statements
2.        Water revenues are based on the assumptions described in para-
graphs 3 to 8. FY 1971 is used as a base year for costs.
3.        Water production in the project area is projected to increase
at an average annual rate of 4.5 IMgd during the years 1973 to 1978, at
5.0 IMgd in 1979 and 1980 and 5.5 IMgd thereafter. Water production in
the outlying areas is projected to increase at an average annual rate of
0.5 IMgd throughout the period covered by the projections.
4.        Unaccounted-for water is projected to decrease from the present
level of about 21.5% to 16.5% in 1981. In the project area, unaccounted-
for water is expected to decrease from about 20% in 1972 to 15% in 1981.
5.        No increase in the present level of water charges is assumed
during the period covered by the projections.
6.        Connection fees are projected on the basis that new connections
will increase from about 12,000 in 1972 to about 20,000 in 1981. About
1,000 connections each year are assumed to be made under the installment
scheme (paragraph 6.11 of the appraisal report). The remainder will be pro-
vided by the consumers and most of these are assumed to be 1 in. or smaller
connections (fees vary from M$20 for connections up to 1 in. to M$40 for
connections larger than 3 in.).
7.        Other fees from disconnections and reconnections are projected
to increase in proportion to the increase in number of connections.
Other income which is mainly the overheads charged on work done for con-
sumers has no fixed pattern and is maintained at the conservative figure
of M$35,000 per year.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
8.        Bad debts are insignificant.  A provision of M$20,000 in 1972
and M$10,000 in each of the following years is provided for write-offs.
9.        Operat:.ng costs have risen fairly consistently in proportion to
water production over several years and are projected forward from 1971
at an annual increase of 5.5%.  The exceptions to this are chemicals and
fuel which are projected in proportion to increased water production plus
a 2% price escalation.
10.       Depreciation is calculated in respect of the totals at the beginning
of each year at 2.8% on the original cost of assets at January 1, 1970 and
at 2.5% on all assets acquired after that date. The reason for the lower
rate on the new assets is that most of these are buildings in the form of
treatment works and a dam and an annual depreciation rate of 2.5% is considered
adequate.
Balance Sheets
11.       No cash is shown in the balance sheets until 1973 and then it is
shown as M$2 million each year. The reason for this is that up until 1973
all monies received were deposited in the State Government's bank account.
During 1972 the WD had its own bank account for payments only and this was
replenished as required by the State Gorernment. On January 1, 1973 the
State Government gave WD M$2 million to open a bank account to which all
monies received would be paid and from which all expenditures would be met.
During the project construction period expenditures on operating costs and
the project will far exceed the revenues from water billings and these
additional monies will be provided by the State Government to the WD.
Part of these additional monies will be from the Bank loan but the remainder
will be from the State Government's own resources and this is reflected
in the balance sheet under Liabilities - Contributed Capital, which in-
creases each year during the period to 1977.
12.       WD's bank account is not allowed to exceed M$ 2 million and any
amount in excess of M$ 2 million is liable to be used by the State Government.
This position arises after 1977 when the revenues from water billings start
to exceed operating costs and other capital expenditure and the surplus
monies are assumed to be used by the State Government. This is reflected
in the balance sheet under Liabilities - Contributed Capital which decreases
each year from 1978 to 1981 as these monies are assumed to be repaid to the
State Government. It will be necessary for a future supervision mission
to work out suitable arrangements with the WD and State Government for the
proper control of the repayment of surplus monies from 1978 onwards (para-
graph 5.09 in the appraisal report).
13.       Net accounts receivable for 1971 are approximately 15% of the
year's billings. This is considered to be a reasonable figure in relation
to the Water Division's billing program and has been used as the basis for
projecting the accounts receivable figure.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
14.       The terms of the borrowing are as follows:
Interest   Grace                  Period
Rate     Period      Term      of Loan
(       (Years)   (Years)   (Years)
Federal Government
loans               5 to 6-1/2    Nil    25 to 35   1964-1999
First IBRD loan          6-1/2        4         16-1/2  1972-1988
Proposed IBRD loan       7-1/4        5         15       1978-1993
April 26, 1973






ANNEX 14
Page 1
MALAYSIA
KUALA LUMPUR WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - SECOND STAGE
Schedule of Water Charges
1.        The following water charges are in force from January 1966 for
all urban and rural areas in Selangor State:
Water Charges
A.   Categories of Consumers                         Water Charge
1.  Domestic consumers, government  )   M$1.00 per 1,000 gallons with
buildings, institutions and       )      a minimum charge of M$2.00
schools                          )       per month
2.  Part-trade and part-domestic    )   M$1.20 per 1,000 gallons with
consumers (where the trade is   )        a minimum charge of M$2.00
not dependent on water, e.g.    )        per month
grocery shop, dispensaries, etc.))
3.  Commercial and industrial         )   M$1.20 per 1,000 gallons with
consumers                                a minimum charge of M$3.00
per month
4.  Concessionary supplies -          )
(a)  religious and charitable   )   M$0.50 per 1,000 gallons with
institutions                )       a minimum charge of M$2.00
per month.
(b)  low-cost housing projects  )   M$0.60 per 1,000 gallons with
a minimum charge of M$2.00
per month.
5.  Supplies to Ships                 )   M$3.00 per 1,000 gallons
B.   Standpipes
With effect from January 1, 1972, public standpipes have been
metered and a charge at the rate of M$1.00 per 1,000 gallons is
raised against the Government.
C.   Others
Under a special arrangement with the Federal Government, Water
Supply to the Sungei Besi Federal Military College is charged at
M$0.30 per 1,000 gallons up to a maximum of 1.5 IMgd.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
For building construction, water charges are levied at the
commercial and industrial rate if the supply is metered. If the
supply is not metered a flat charge of 1% of the estimated cost
of the building is levied for the water consumed for construction
purposes. This charge came into effect from April 1972. Prior to
that it was only 1/2%.
D.   Deposits
A deposit sufficient to cover not more than the estimated cost
of two months' supply of water is collected from all non-Govermnent
consumers. The amount is adjusted periodically on the basis of
actual consumption.
E.   Payment of Water Charges
Water charges are payable within seven days of the issuance of
the bills.  In practice, however, a grace period up to three weeks
is given for payment. In the event of default in the payment of
water charges the supply is cut off and is reconnected only after
settlement of all dues and payment of a reconnection fee of M$4.00.
(The M$4.00 reconnection fee is presently sufficient to meet the
costs involved). In cases where reconnections are not made within
a reasonable period the amount due is adjusted from the deposit held.
January 17, 1973



IBRD 10287
102'W
P -E R A K
ew                                                                                                                                           coo -
'67. ma.
SA BA A' BERIVA M
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
K F.-
PAHANG
UZU  5EZAIV,  OR
KUAZA SEZANGOR
1. .-A
MALAYM
SELANGOR STATE
KUALA LLMPLA MATER SUPIRY PROJECT SECCND) ST
EXGT
NG 'AATER-aPIES & PROPOSED PROECfOE                                                                               "p=
IrR
KLJALA
LUMPUR
V
1*N wt. ttolla plamts 5                                         -\,  (--
--46- PI-Posed Wotw Tmat.-f Plow o d T ... k Mms
Rodl"
ZANGAT
100'
"ME, Mvkl= A SMAUER NAMETER DMMBUTIPN AlAlt45
-06
M.K. 1
4
NEGRI
SEMBILAN
l(UA I AZAAIGAT
T
Pk
ACA






VA
3 z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
;~  ~     -                                      4'   C.                         - --  .....          7 .A      
O  | | ' t |  i  + t  t  \   *   g x e  SOv  , 4'                               /       5
(ii'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
|   Z  m   ' d   1:            /S          C             ..          ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>     '
n~~~~~~~~~
1  )  0--'         r         =4 5                              3'-9 
80-                                             .......
M    8                          ,,                                i, 3      /                w       N 8
-C   ~~~~~~~~~~~~CZ~~~~~~~~c



