Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-*A/ 24_iF- Pb4
Report No. 7102-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
April 27, 1988
Country Department II
Asia Regiona'. Office
This document has a resticted disribution and mav be used bv recpients onlv  the pl' r|



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(November 1987)
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
P 1.00    =  US$0.048
US$1.00  =  P 20.7
GOVERNMENT OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                   =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 5    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         =    0.3886 square miles
1 meter (mi3)=    10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3)               -    35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (mcm)          810.7 acre-feet
1 millimeter (mm)                -    0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                  -    2.2 pounds
1 cavan                          -    50 kilogram
20 cavans                        -    1 metric ton



FM OFCAL VW  ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAO      -    Assistant Administrator for Operations
CIS      -    Comuonal Irrigation System
DA       -    Department of Agriculture
DPWH     -    Department of Public Works and Highways
DT       -    Ditchtender
FIG      -    Farmer Irrigator Croups
FIO      -    Farmer Irrigators' Organizers
FSDC     -    Farm Systems Development Corporation
HYV      -    High Yielding Variety
IA       -    Irrigators' Association
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
IDD      -    Institutional Development Division
IDS      -    Institutional Development Worker
IMIS     -    Irrigation Management Information System
IOdP     -    Input-Output Monitoring Program
IOSP     -    Irrigation Operations Support Project
IRRI     -    International Rice Research Institute
iS       -    Irrigation Superintendent
ISF      -    Irrigation Service Fee
ISO      -    Irrigation System Officers
LCB      -    Local Competitive Bidding
"&E      -    Monitoring and Evaluation
NEDA     -    National Economic and Develbpment Authority
NFA      -    National Food Authority
NIA      -    itional Irrigation Administration
NIS      -    National Irrigation System
OD       -    Operating Division
0M4      -    Operations and Maintenance
PCARRD   -    Philippine Council for Agriculture
Resources Research and Development
PCR      -    Project Completion Report
PIE      -    Provincial Irrigation Engineer
PIO      -    Provincial Irrigation Offices
PIS      -    Pump Irrigation System
RIARS    -    Regional Integrated Agricultural Research System
RID      -    Regional Irrigation Director
RIO      -    Regional Irrigation Offices
SCF      -    Standard Conversion Factor
SEC      -    Securities and Exchange Commission
SMD      -    Systems Management Department
SOE      -    Statement of Expenditure
VIG      -    Viability Incentive Grant
Wm       -    Watermaster
This document ha a restriced distbution and may be ue by gcIents only In te pefa,me
of theiir oaficid dutem Its contents may not otherwise be diclosed without Wotd Bank autdhcuen.



PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of the Philippines
Beneficiary:            National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
Loan Amount:            US$45.0 million
Terms:                  Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Project Ob,ectives:    The objectives of the project are:  (a) to strengthen
substantially the institutional capability of ilIA and
cooperating private irrigators' associations (MAs) to
improve and maintain the efficiency of existing
national irrigation system (NIS) infrastructure; and
(b) to improve the operating performance of the 127
existing NISs through minor rehabilitation works and
through increases in the annual funding for and levels
of operations and maintenance (O&M) services.
Description:            The project would be the first phase of NIA's proposed
nine-year Irrigation O&M Improvement Program,
commencing in July 1988. It would cover the entire NIS
service area of about 600,000 ha, benefitting some
430,000 rural families. The project, of 3 years'
duration, would initiate higher levels of O&M expendi-
ture and work, and would provide related support for
all NISs. During the project, average annual expendi-
tures on O&M would be increased to an average of about
US$24.80/ha (end-1987 prico.), a level about 90Z that
estimated to be necessary to maintain the NISs at
maximum productivity. The project would also provide
for minor rehabilitation of existing infrastructure;
assist in the further development of IAs and expanded
beneficiary participation in O&M of all NISs;
substantially increase O&M cost recovery through
improved irrigation service fee (ISF) billing and
collection efficiency; and support institutional and
operational policy reforms necessary to ensure the
long-term capability of NIA to keep the NISs operating
efficiently.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii -
Risks:                  The main risks would be possible adverse farmer
reaction to increased ISF collection efforts, and the
fact that in some areas targets may not be reached
because of prevailing peace and order problems.  These
potential difficulties would be eased by improved
irrigation services and increased farmer participation
through lAs, and are not considered serious risks.
Estimated Cost:                                     Local      Foreign   Total
…---- (USs million)…
Rehabilitation Works                                   10.5       7.0      17.5
044 Program                                            18.8       1.7      20.5
Equipment and Spares                                    1.8       5.4       7.2
IA Development Program                                  0.6       0.1       0.7
Technical Assistance                                    1.1       0.2       1.3
MIA Staff Training                                      0.3       0.1       0.4
Engineering and Administration                          3.3       0.0       3.3
Total Base Cost                                  36.4       14.5      50.9
Physical Contingencies                                  5.5       2.2       7.7
Price Contingencies                                     1.2       0.4       1.6
Total Project Cost                               43.1       17.1      60.2 /a
Financing Plan:
IBRD                          27.9       17.1     45.0/b
Covernment/NIA                15.2         -       15.2
Total                         43.1       17.1     60.2
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY              1989      1990       1991       1992
-    _US$ milli.on)-
Annual               16.4     18.0       10.3         0.3
Cumulative           16.4     34.4       44.7        45.0
Rate of Return:         34%
MEp:                    IBRD 20485
/a    Including taxes and duties of about US$2.0 million.
/b    Including up to US$1.5 million of retroactive financing.



- iii -
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SIOIARY..................................                   1
I. ARICULTURE IN THE ECONOMYs.............................. .o               1
Sectoral Per      no                r    m    a    n    c    e           1
Rural Pev                          e       r       t        y            1
Development Objectives and Strategyr a t e gy..............e.....       2
II, THE IRRIGATION SUB                 S     E    C    T     OR............   2
Irrigation Development                                                  2
Institutional Responsibilities and Supporting Services....              3
National Irrigation Administration...............e..o..o..o           3
Irrigators' Associations..........e....... ... ......*s....           4
Support Services for Irrigated Agricultureiultureo........           5
Operational Performance....................... ..e..o........           6
Irrigation Financing and Cost Recovery................o......           7
Irrigation Financing..        a    n     c     i    ng...................... .......  7
Irrigation Service      Fees                                         8
ISF Collectionsl.......e..................... ....... ....           8
Recurrent Funding Requirement.quireme*nt* , . *.oo,      .....       9
Beneficiaries' Capacity to Payay.........o....o...........          10
Government Irrigation Subsector Stratery      at....e     gy............  10
The Bank's Role in Irrigation Development*o..............o...          11
III.  THE PROJECT.O...           * ..o.............. .........                11
Project Formulation and Objectives............e...........e..          11
Project Description. s   cOs.........................onSOOOO*..        12
Detailed F ea tu r es..0***ooee*O000*000000                            13
Institutional Strengthening of NIA....        IA..................  13
Improvements in ISF Collection Procedures*e*.......o...          13
Irrigation Management Information System..stem.........          14
Staff Training                       .........                   15
Studies and Preparation of O&M Manualnsw*...........s..          15
Equipment......e...o......e.......... .e. .oo. o......          , 16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the
Philippines in October/November 1987, comprising Messrs. T. Daves,
C. Gunasekara and I. Naor and Ms. S. Kulsrethsiri (Bank), and Mr. T. Rico-Mora
(Consultant).



- iv -
Page No.
Irrigators' Association Development.......................      16
Minor Rehabilitation ..............e.................................. 17
Structural ................................ ........ ....    18
Initial Desilting of Canalso..........................o      18
Expanded Operations and Maintenance Programo..............      18
Operationso..............eeo..................o...o........o.....   18
Maintenance   ******...........oo....o.......................o...e..  18
Project Costs and Financing..........................................  19
Cost Estimateso...........................................ooo o  19
Financing..     .      ..............................................  19
Procurement   o o *o t * .* o o e * o o *o ......o.................................. 21
Disbursements   o..&* .* *.* &.oe .o  *a  t * a o...........oo................o....  23
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION...o...................................      25
Organization and Management...*.....**.......................e     25
Project Implementation Schedule ................................ 26
Monitoring and Evaluation....................................      27
Accounts  and  Audits ..o..................0.............0..0........00..0..00  27
Environmental Effects........................................      27
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING .......................o o   28
Present and Future Cropping Patterns.........................      28
Yields and Productiono.....o.o...........o.. o.o.o.... ............  29
Market Prospects ................o  ............. ..........0..0.  30
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.o.....................**o***&    31
Benefits and Beneficiarieso.........................o..........oo  31
Farmers' Incomes and Payment Capacity........................      31
Economic Analysisoo                 .......                        33
Project  Risks.o..O.*........................................0............  34
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION...oo...ooo.....         34
TABLES IN TEXT
2.1  Current ISF Rates............................................       8
3.1  Project Cost Summary..o........e............ ...................   20
3.2  O&M Financing Plan, 1988/89-1990/91..........................      21
3.3  Procuremento..   ooo o        o ........o.. .............o.o.o............ 23
5.1  Cropping Intensity and Area, with Irrigation.................      29
5.2  Average Yields and Production under Irrigation...............      30



ANNEXES
Annex 1
Table 1:  Project Cost Summary
Table 2:  Restoration Work Costs
Table 3:  O&M Equipment Costs
Table 4:  Training Equipment Costs
Table 5:  Equipment Reconditioning Costs
Table 6:  Parcellary Mapping and Irrigation Fee Register Costs
Table 7:  NIA Staff Training Costs
Table 8:  Irrigators' Associati3n Development Costs
Table 9:  Recurrent O&M Costs
Table 10: O&M Unit Costs by Funding Source
Annex 2
Table 1: Financing Plan and Proposed IBRD Loan Allocation
Table 2: Estimated Schedule of Project Expenditures
Table 3: Estimated Scheduled Loan Disbursements
Annex 3
Table 1: Current ISF Rates, by Type of NIS
Table 2: Adequacy of ISF Rates
Table 3: Service and Irrigated Area of the NISs, 1982-86
Table 4: Benefited as Compared to Irrigation Area of MISs, 1982-86
Table 5: Status of IA Development, June 1987
Table 6: IA Development Schedule, 1988-90
Table 7: Work Responsibilities for Implementation of the IMIS
Annex 4
Table 1: Rice Price Structure, 1987-95
Table 2: Summary of Fertilizer Prices, 1987-95
Table 3: Paddy Crop Financial Budgets
Table 4: Farm Financial Budgets
Annex 5
Table 1: Economic Benefits and Costs
Table 2: Project Cash Flow
Annex 6 - Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
FIGURES
Figure 1: NIA Organization Chart
Figure 2: Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Figure 3: Project Implementation Schedule
MAP
IBRD 20485



Is AGRICULTURE IN THE ECONOMY V
Sectoral Performance
1.1       The agricultural sector's past performance in the Philippines has
ben surprisingly good, considering that for many years the overall incentive
structure was sharplv biased in favor of industry. From 1970 to the economic
crisis of 1982, agriculture grew by over 4X p.a. in real terms (5% p.a. if the
declining forestry subsector is excluded), or somewhat faster than GDP as a
whole. Since then, agricultural growth has slowed to an average 3% p.a..
although still showing much more resilience than the rest of the economy. At
the present time agriculture retains a dominant economic position, directly
generating about one-fourth of GDP and exports, employing nearly half the
total labor force, and providing many of the natural resources and much of the
domestic demand on which the industrial and service sectors depend.
1.2       Many factors have contributed to this performance. For much .; the
1970s, world food prices were at historically high levels, which compensated
in part for the policy d*istortions that discriminated against agriculture.
This encouraged Philippine farmers to increase considerably the total area
under cultivation, as well as to expand the use of modern technology, most
notably in the sta;le food, rice, but also in other commodities as diverse as
bananas, poultry and aquaculture products. A large irrigation investment
program doubled the irrigated area. This, together with the adoption of high-
yielding varieties and increased fertilizer application, helped to achieve a
growth rate of 5.3% p.a. in rice production during 1972-80 and a near doubling
of rice yields to about 3.0 tons/ha. Corn production also grew, although more
because of expansion in the planted area than yield improvements. As a
result, by the start of the present decade the Philippines had achieved
virtual self-sufficiency in basic foods and had diversified its structure of
production by developing a number of new crops for domestic consumption or
export.
1.3       The main underlying causes of the decline in output growth since
1983 have been an increasing shortage of foreign exchange and associated
policy measures restricting import of agricultural inputs, the gradual
contraction of credit to the sector, adverse weather and low international
commodity prices. Nonetheless, agriculture has been the only major sector to
maintain some momentum of development and to record an overall positive growth
rate during the period of economic recession.
Rural Poverty
1.4       Although the record of agricultural growth and diversification over
the past decade and a half has been generally good, it is marred by the
continuing presence of massive rural poverty. At least 50% of Philippine
families still have incomes below the poverty level, and some three-fourths of
1/ For further information see: Philippines Agricultural Sector Strategy
Review, World Bank Report No. 6819, of October 21, 1987.



- 2 -
these live in rural areas where the absolute number of poor have increased,
real wages have fallen and the number of landless families has grown
steadily. Overall, it is estimated that about 16 million rural inhabitai.ts
live in absoluLe poverty. Small family operated farms predominate and land
distribution is highly skewed. Although the average farm size is about 3.6
ha, some 5% of farmers have more than 10 ha each in productiou and together
account for one-third of all farmland. In contrast, about 85% of total
farmholdings (2.35 million) are less than 5 ha, and the average size of rice
farms is only 2.7 ha. Some 40% of all farms are cultivated by tenant farmers,
mostly on a share cropping basis, and population pressure has caused even the
most marginal lands to be brought under cultivation. Persistent widespread
rural poverty is the most disappointing aspect of past economic performance
and reflects a combination of factors: a continuing high population growth
rate, an increasing scarcity of land, inadequate growth of the agriculture
sector itself, and a failure of the economy as a whole to provide sufficient
employment opportunities outside agriculture.
Development Objectives and Strategy
1.5       The Government is keenly aware of the critical role that agriculture
must play in economic recovery and in spearheading the attack on rural
poverty, and it has substantial activities underway or planned to promote and
support agricultural development. These involve a series of institutional
reforms to strengthen sector management, policy reforms aimed primarily at
reducing government intervention in pricing and marketing, and eliminating
discrimination against agriculture, improved utilization of existing
productive capacity, measures to achieve a better distribution of cultivable
lands, and the allocation of more resources to agricultural development. The
Bank has consistently supported the Government's objectives for agriculture
and, in view of its potential contribution to increasing national output and
exports and to poverty alleviation, an important element in the Bank's future
country assistance strategy for the Philippines will be the continued support
of priority agriculture and rural development activities.
II. THE IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
Irrigation Development
2.1       Although there is a long tradition of irrigation in the Philippines
dating back to the Spanish era when individuals or groups of farmers built,
operated and maintained small-scale systems, the first Government-financed
irrigation project was completed only in 1923. By 1940, ten such irrigation
systems covering 80,000 ha had been completed. After World War II, the
Government stepped up its construction activities, so that by 1968 the total
irrigated area had increased to about 700,000 ha. Since then the total
irrigated area has again doubled to 1.45 million ha, out of about 3.5 million
ha judged suitable for irrigation. This expansion, and the related dramatic
increase in paddy production since 1968, have enabled the Philippines to
achieve marginal self-sufficiency in rice.



- 3 -
2.2       Irrigation in the Philippines is generally categorized into three
types of systems:  national irrigation systems (NISs), communal irrigation
systems (CISs) and pump irrigation systems (PISs).
(a) National Irrigation Systems. At present there are 127 NISs, serving
about 600,000 ha. They are built, operated and maintained by the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a government-owned
corporation respeisible for irrigation development and operations.
Three of the NISs are reservoir systems: Magat and Upper Pamapanga
together irrigate about 200,000 ha, with power generation as an
additional benefit; and Angat-Maasim, which is primarily for urban
water supplyp also irrigates about 31,500 ha. The rest of the NISs
are run-of-river diversion systems, primarily for irrigation.
Twenty new NISs will bring an additional 80,000 ha under irrigation
by 1990 and a further 70,000 ha by 1993.
(b) Communal Irrigation Systems. CISs are small gravity, mostly run-of-
river type systems, owned and operated by farmer irrigators'
associations (MAs). The roughly 6,300 CISs, generally under 1,003
ha each, currently account for an aggregate area of about 700,000
ha. Unlike the national systems, they are built with or without
Covernment (NIA) assistance. When NIA is involved, its role
relative to the CISs is limited to financial and technical
assistance in the planning and construction of the physical works,
and development and training of the IAs which own the systems and
are responsible for their maintenance after construction is
completed.
(c) Pump Irrigation Systems. Privately owned PISs service about 200,000
ha. Pump units that cover a service area of from 20 to 100 ha are
initially operated and maintained by either NIA or the Farm Systems
Development Corporation (FSDC), and are then turned over to
cooperatives. Smaller pump units with command areas of less than 20
ha each are privately owned. The high cost of energy has reduced
the overall financial attractiveness of the PISs and is likely to
constrain their further expansion.
Institutional Responsibilities and Supporting Services
2.3       The National Irrigation Administration.  The National Irrigation
Administration (NIA), created in 1963 as the successor to the irrigation
division of the Bureau of Public Works, has a very broad mandate within the
irrigation subsector. Republic Act No. 3601 established NIA as a Government
corporation responsible for planning, constructing, operating and maintaining
all NISs in the Philippines. NIA was also empowered to investigate and study
all national water resources for irrigation purposes; plan, construct,
temporarily administer and periodically repair CISs and PISs; and collect
irrigation service fees (ISF). In 1974, Presidential Decree No. 552 widened
NIA's scope of action, by giving it broader powers and authority to undertake
related projects (e.g., flood control, drainage, land reclamation, hydro-power
development, domestic water supply, road or highway construction,
reforestation and other activities to maintain the ecological balance), in
coordination with other concerned agencies.



2.4       As a semi-autonomous agency, NIA has considerable operational
freedom, but is attached to the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)
for program and policy coordination purposes (Figure 1). NIA is governed by a
Board of Directors appointed by the President and consisting of the Secretary
of Public Works and Highways (chairman), the Administrator of VIA (vice-
chairman), the Director General of che National Economic and Development
Authority, the Secretary of Agricuiture, the General Manager of the National
Power Corporation, and a representative of the private sector. All of NIA's
Assistant Administrators are also Presidential appointees.
2.5       NIA has developed into a well-structured agency with its operations
carried out through an effective network of national, regional, provincial and
system-level offices covering the entire country. It is adequately staffed
and, with the exception of a few minor items, has sufficient construction and
maintenance equipment. At its Manila headquarters, NIA's organizational
structure includes four units, each under an Assistant Administrator:
(a) Project Development and Implementation; (b) System Operations and
Equipment Management; (c) Finance and Management; and (d) Personnel and
Administrative Services. The first two units are technical and cover all
phases of the irrigation project cycle, from identification through planning,
preparation, design and construction, to operation and maintenance. The
latter two units include all support functions. At regional level NIA has 11
offices (RIOs), one for each of 10 of the 12 administrative regions of the
country and one responsible for regions nos. 7 and 8. Each RIO is headed by a
Regional Irrigation Director (RID), who reports to NIA's Administrator. Some
95 irrigation system offices (ISOs) are each responsible for one NIS or a
cluster of NISs, as appropriate, and are headed by an Irrigation
Superintendent (IS).  Another 67 provincial irrigation offices tPIOs), each
headed by a Provincial Irrigation Engineer (PIE), are responsible for communal
irrigation works. All ISs and PIEs of a given region report directly to the
RID of that region.
2.6       Irrigators' Associations.   Over the years, NIA has acquired
valuable experience and has developed a successful participatory strategy for
establishing and maintaining irrigators' associations (IAs). In this respect,
NIA is well ahead of many irrigation authorities elsewhere, which are still
attempting to identify effective techniques for organizing farmers into water
users' groups.
2.7       After observing weaknesses in the conventional centralized, top-down
development of irrigation schemes, in 1976 NIA launched a special experimental
program with the Ford Foundation to test new participatory approaches to these
functions in the communal irrigation systems, from the earliest stage of
design through to operations. Encouraging results prompted NIA to extend the
concept throughout the CIS network, with continuous refinements and improve-
ments. Although some smaller CISs still depend more on informal leadership by
village heads or larger landowners who call on irrigators to perform needed
maintenance and observe tacit water distribution rules, O&M of the larger CISs
(above 100 ha) is now usually handled by IAs. Active collaboration among irri-
gation officials and farmers, from initial planning through construction,
operations and maintenance, is the essential feature of the strategy, with the
need for a new or improved irrigation system serving as the unifying element.
In the identification phase, farmers formulate by-laws, register their IA,



- 5 -
obtain a water permit, establish IA committees as needed, conduct a manpower
survey of IA members in preparation for construction, work with technical
staff on land surveys and negotiate the technical design, secure rights of
way, and sign a pre-construction memo of agreement with NIA on the estimated
cost of the proposed CIS. In the construction phase, they contribute labor,
monitor construction materials, equipment and costs, reconcile construction
costs with NIA records, attend training seminars, accept the completed system,
and sign the loan with NIA. In the O&M phase, they take over control of their
system, while continuing to receive training from NIA in water management.
2.8       More recently, NIA has been trying to transfer some of the lessons
learned in working with IAs in the CISs to the national systems. NIA's
objective is to obtain beneficiary participation in O&M below the main
conveyance canals in the NISs. The task is more difficult than in the CISs,
because the national systems are larger and more complex. Also they have
traditionally been owned and maintained by the Government, and although
farmers pay irrigation service fees, they have not been accustomed to
participating directly in O&M of the NISs. Ultimately, extension of the IA
approach to the NISs will benefit both NIA and the irrigators. It will enable
NIA to lower its O&M costs and improve its collection of irrigation service
fees through the IAs. Farmers should achieve better responsiveness in their
dealings with NIA officials, gain a better understanding of irrigated
agriculture, develop their capability for collective bargaining for procure-
ment of agricultural inputs, get better operated and maintained systems, and
eventually obtain higher and more stable incomes.
2.9       To date NIA has commenced IA organization activities over about
336,000 ha within the NISs, comprising some 1,230 IAs, with a membership of
about 207,000 farm families (Annex 3, Table 5). On the average, one IA covers
an area of about 250 ha and is organized on the basis of a lateral or common
water source. Management structures become more formal as system size
increases, but a typical IA is registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) and has an elected board of directors and a roster of
officers. Of the 1,230 IAs in different stages of formation, 570 are already
registered with the SEC and have entered into formal contracts with NIA for
some O0M responsibilities.
2.10      Support Services for Irrigated Agriculture.  Both the public ana
private sectors provide support services for irrigated agriculture. The
public sector is primarily concerned with: policy formulation and planning;
the generation and testing of technology for promotion through the Government
extension service; channelling of a substantial share of rural credit require-
ments through the Central Bank to a network of rural and other banking insti-
tutions; and, to a lesser extent, produce marketing. The private sector
imports, produces and distributes fertilizers, pesticides, feedstuffs and
veterinary supplies, which are available to farmers through retail outlets in
every municipality; and it plays the major role in purchasing, processing and
distributing farm products.
2.11      National agricultural research is coordinated by the Philippine
Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Natural Resources Research and
Development (PCARRD), which assists the Department of Agriculture (DA) in the
formulation of relevant research programs and in the packaging of technology



- 6 -
for promotion by the extension service. Responsibility for research in rice,
the principal irrigated crop, has recently been assigned to DA's newly
established Philippine Rice Research Institute at Central Luzon Agricultural
University. Rice research is also carried out at other universities, the
International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), six DA rice experiment stations
and a number of research substations throughout the country. The DA stations
focus on varietal screening, foundation seed production and certification,
fertilizer trials and intensified land utilization through multiple
cropping. High yielding rice varieties and better farm management techniques
are developed and tested at these facilities, and on farms through the
Regional Integrated Agricultural Research System (RIARS) and the Provincial
Technology Verification Trials. Although the quality of agricultural research
is generally good, it is under-funded, with spending well below the levels of
many comparator countries.
2.12      Extension services are provided to farmers through the 12 DA
regional offices, with an average of one extension agent for about every 124
farmers. Various credit institutions, rural banks and other government
agencies also provide some technical assistance to farmers. NIA itself trains
water management technicians to help farmers use their irrigation systems
efficiently, while local municipal action committees and IAs coordinate
activities at the level of individual irrigation systems. The extension and
other support services provided by the various agencies need much better
coordination and their technicians require greater mobility and more intensive
training. Extensionists are often ill-prepared to advise farmers on irrigated
rice production techniques, and water management technicians seldom receive
much training in agronomy, with the result that the two sometimes provide
conflicting or inadequate advice to irrigating farmers.
Operational Performance
2.13      The performance of mnty of the irrigation systems in the Philippines
falls below expectations. Despite considerable double cropping, in 1986 total
irrigated area in the NISs reached only 0.8 million ha, of which 95% was in
paddy. The CISs and PISs combined accounted for a total irrigated area of 1.1
million ha. In terms of cropping intensity, NIS reservoir systems exhibited
the highest values, at over 150Z, compared to about 131% for NIS diversion
systems and 127% for the communal and pump systems. An earlier assessment by
NIA (1984) concluded that efficiencies (production per unit of irrigation
water) were low and that most NISs were irrigating less than the design
service areas: 69% of the aggregate NIS area was being irrigated during the
wet season, when water is plentiful, and only 47% in the dry season.
2.14      The relatively low cropping intensities reflect, inter alia,
inadequate and highly variable water supply, particularly in the dry season;
poor system maintenance; and some incompatibility of system design and
location-specific conditions. On the latter point, a random check of NIA-
managed NISs, which had met irrigation diversion requirements at the time of
construction completion, indicated that about 5% of them suffered 8-10% water
shortfalls at the diversion during dry season. Also, flood control and
drainage were not given sufficient emphasis during design of some of the older
NISs. In the case of the CISs, the low cropping intensity is partly attri-
butable to the over-design of many systems relative to available water



- 7 -
supply. For the most part, however, poor operational performance reflects
inadequate O&M funding and capability, on the part of NIA and the IAs. The
most common problems are deteriorating canals and structures, silted and
defective diversion works, inadequate drainage and on farm facilities, and
poorly maintained service roads. Thirty of the 127 NISs have been completely
rehabilitated since 1978; 54 are now under rehabilitation; and 43 have had no
rehabilitation work in recent years. The rehabilitation work that has been
carried out so far has helped to bring the NIS cropping intensity up to its
current average of 1322.
Irrigation Financing and Cost Recovery
2.15      NIA's ability to both implement its ongoing investmenc program and
provide adequate O&M is severely curtailed by its financial situation, which
stems largely from recent Government measures to deal with the country's
fiscal problems, including a sharp reduction in Government contributions to
NIA investment projects and a requirement that NIA provide funds to cover the
post-1982 foreign debt-service obligations for NIS development from its own
resources. Irrigation service fee (ISF) rates charged by NIA are not low per
se, especially when measured ag2inst beneficiaries' capacity to pay. However,
ISF proceeds lag behind amounts due because of low collection levels and the
costs associated with accepting in-kind payments. From 1988 onward NIA will
require fundamental improvements in cost recovery, in order to raise O&M
expenditures to satisfactory levels, and an increase in Government contribu-
tions to sustain il:s planned investment program and cover aforementioned debt
service.
2.16      Irrigation Financing.  In the past, combined interest on construc-
tion funds held on deposit, management fees charged to the Government for
construction supervision, consulting fees, equipment rental and ISF
collections had enabled NIA to finance its operating budget. The investment
program was financed by the Government, using mainly foreign loan funds.
However, the economic crisis in 1983 and subsequent measures instituted by the
Government have had a significant adverse impact on NIA's financial
situation. Over the last three years, there has been a sharp decline in
irrigation project investment support by the Government: by 1986 Government
support had dropped to about US$6.75 million, less than 1OZ of the 1982
level. As Government investment contributions fell, so did the volume of
management fees and interest earnings on construction funds. In 1986, in
order to implement its work program, NIA had to supplement its own income of
US$15 million by utilizing its cash reserves, which are now exhausted.
Implementation of ongoing projects has slowed down or been curtailed; NIA's
staff has been cut back; and NIA's general capacity to undertake new projects
has been reduced.
2.17      More serious perhaps than the Government's declining support for
NIA's investment program has been its decision to transfer to NIA the
responsibility for servicing the debt on all official foreign loans for
irrigation contracted since 1982 (equivalent to US$250 million). Debt service
on these obligations will increase sharply beginning in 1988, reaching a peak
of about US$29 million p.a. in 1990.  Most of NIA's projects are large-scale
and take a long time to implement and to attain full agricultural development,
but the funds borrowed to finance such investments involve relatively short



- 8 -
maturities (usually 15 years). To a certain extent the financial difficulties
NIA now faces stem from this imbalance. Without some policy changes, VIA
could be forced to cut its operating expenditures drastically, and the already
inadequate level of O&M would be reduced even further. This implies that:
(a) cost recovery in irrigation must improve; (b) future irrigation investment
projects must be carefully reviewed, paying particular attention to their
financial and economic viability, and to NIA's implementation capacity; and
(c) the Government must bridge the financing gap created by the imbalance
between shorter maturities and longer-term economic returns.
2.18      Irrigation Service Fees.  According to the National Irrigation
Policy adopted in 1978, NIA is authorized to charge ISF on irrigated lands
within the NISs at levels sufficient to finance O&M and insurance, and to
recover initial investment costs (without interest) in no more than 50 years,
provided that such charges are within the beneficiaries' capacity to pay.
Since 1975, irrigation fees have been denominated in terms of paddy, and
farmers may pay either in kind or the equivalent cash amount, based on the
Government paddy support price. This has provided a degree of indexation
against inflation, although it is also costly for NIA, which must collect,
store and sell the paddy.  ISF rates vary according to type of system, and by
wet and dry season, as follows:
Table 2.1: CURRENT ISF RATES
Kind of system                         Wet season       Dry season
(Cavans of 50 kg of paddy weight rice/ha)
Diversion systems                             2.0               3.0
Reservoir systems                             2.5                3.5
Pump systems                                  3.0               5.0
2.19      Despite official policy, these ISF rates could not recover both OEM
and all initial investment costs, even if cropping intensities were at design
level and there were 10OZ billing and collection efficiency. However, if
collections were at full potential, current ISF rates (valued at the prevail-
ing P 3.50/kg Government paddy support price) would cover both the 1983-87
average level of O&M expenditures (about US$16.40 per ha of service area), as
well as a small fraction of construction costs. This does not happen at
present because of under-billing, low average ISF collection efficiency and
high collection expenditures associated with the in-kind payment system.
Nevertheless, ISF revenues do finance about 80% of current O&M expenditures
and 47Z of what would be considered desirable O&M levels. This places the
Philippines ahead of most Asian countries in terms of O&M cost recovery.
2.20      ISF Collections.  ISF collections have consistently lagged behind
amounts due, although they are improving. Collection efficiency, which
averaged only 43X during 1980-84, rose to 54Z in 1986 and is estimated at 59%
in 1987, as a result of increased efforts by NIA and the lAs. Low collection



levels stemming from weaknesses in the collection process are aggravated by
inadequate billing. About 202 of the NIS area lacks detailed parcellary
maps. Records of service area, individual irrigated holdings and irrigation
fee registers are often incomplete and outdated; and changes in land ownership
are not fully recorded. Consequently, it is estimated that in some areas
about 30Z of irrigated lots go unbilled. Many times, although bills are
prepared they are not served on time. In a recent study, one-third of
delinquent farmers also cited dissatisfaction with NIA's services as the
principal reason for non-payment.
2.21      The situation is complicated by the lack of effective legal
instruments for enforcing ISF collections. In practical terms, it is very
difficult to implement a "no pay, no water" policy. NIA has to resort to
cumbersome and costly civil suits to collect ISF from delinquent farmers. At
present, there are some US$34 million in outstanding arrears, dating back to
the 19609. As an inducement to increase payments of overdue accounts, NIA
management has proposed and Government has approved, in principle, to:
(a) eliminate accrued interest on debts prior to July 1975; and (b) recal-
culate ISF debt using the official support price of rice at the time of each
billing, instead of applying the current support price to the whole debt.
These measures, together with increased IA effectiveness, are expected to
reduce ISF arrears substantially and to contribute to improved collection of
current ISF assessments.
2.22      In analyzing collection performance, it is important to note that
fees are denominated and usually paid in paddy. Therefore, deductions must be
made for NIA's handling expenses, which average from 14-20% of total in-kind
receipts, as well as losses in sales of paddy of about 162 (1986). Since the
average market price of paddy has been below the Government support price for
the past seven years, NIA has consistently incurred losses. An existing
agreement which obligates the National Food Authority (NFA) to buy paddy from
VIA at the official support price has never been implemented. Although NIA
beArs the downside risk, it does not necessarily benefit from the potential of
the market price running above the support price, since in that event farmers
would probably revert to making payments in cash rather than in paddy.
Finally, deductions must be made for discounts which NIA gives to farmers who
pay on time, and for bonuses to IAs and NIA staff for collections above pre-
determined levels. Overall, in 1986 NIA's gross receipts from ISF collections
(US$8.8 million) yielded net revenues of only about US$6.1 million.
2.23      Recurrent Funding Requirement.  VIA estimates its average O&M
expenses (1983-87) at approximately US$13.10/ha. However, NIA's definition
includes only those expenditures sourced from its own O&M budget, which
finances mainly salary and wage compensation of NIA's O&M staff. In addition
to this, Government allocates some supplemental funds to NIA, which are used
to finance mechanical and contractual work for canal desilting, minor
restoration activities, road works and repairs, etc., as well as, occasional
emergency funds for areas affected by natural calamities, such as typhoon
damage, and for irrigation system renovation and rehabilitation. Unlike NIA's
basic O&M budget, which has been relatively steady and has increased over
time, special Government O&E allocations have fluctuated widely from year to
year, ranging from 132 to 312 of NIA's basic O&M budget during 1981-86. These
special O&M allocations make up a part (averaging about US$3.30 equivalent in



- 10 -
recent years) of total O&M funding, which should also be recovered from direct
beneficiaries through ISF collections.
2.24      As indicated in parao 2.19 above, present ISF collections finance
about 80% of total actual O&M expenditures (US$16.40 equivalent/ha, including
US$13.10 from NIA's regular O&M budget and US$3.30 from special Government O&M
allocations). The 20% shortfall in ISF collections represented NIA's
recurrent funding requirement of about US$2 million in 1987. Looking to the
future, that shortfall could be met with no increase in ISF rates, if collec-
tion efficiency were raised to about 75% (Annex 3, Table 2). However, it has
been estimated that higher average annual O&M expenditures of about US$28
would be needed by 1997, in order to sustain irrigation performance. This
amount could not be fully covered from ISF without some increase in rates.
For example, the increase would be 25%, if cropping intensity were 150%, and
if there were full ISF billing and 85% collection efficiency. Alternatively,
a lower increase would be needed if NIA could reduce collection costs and
losses, and/or obtain the official support price for its paddy sales.
2.25      Beneficiaries' Capacity to Pas.  Data from various farm surveys
during 1982-85 indicate that net income per hectare of irrigated land was
significantly higher than in rainfed areas. Nevertheless, family incomes in
irrigated areas often remained around the poverty threshold due to small farm
sizes and widespread tenancy (para. 1.4). In terms of paddy, incremental
production of irrigated land ranged from some 1,600-2,700 kg/ha in different
years and surveys. ISF payments at current rates absorb only about 10-15 of
these increments and are within the capacity of most beneficiaries to pay.
However, full cost recovery of the targeted higher levels of O&M through ISF
rate increases from all beneficiaries (para. 2.24) would likely push a
significant number of families below the poverty threshold, unless preceded by
sustained productivity improvements.
Government Irrigation Subsector Strategy
2.26      The Philippines has made impressive investments in irrigated agri-
culture during the past two decades, with reasonable success as indicated by
the achievement of rice self-sufficiency and the relatively strong rate of
agricultural growth--to which irrigation development has made an important
contribution. Looking to the future, while a few new large-scale irrigation
and multipurpose projects may be justified, Government investments are
required mainly in rehabilitation, communal and small-scale irrigation
schemes. It is estimated that part of the irrigated service area will need
rehabilitation (para. 2.14), which would require less investment and yield
greater and faster returns than entirely new projects. For example, studies
indicate that rehabilitation costs per incremental ton of paddy average only
about 25-50X of the costs of converting from rainfed to irrigated rice
production, but can result in yield increases of as much as 70%. The rehabi-
litation needed at this time to correct system deterioration and increase the
efficiency of existing infrastructure reflects inadequate O&M in the past.
The Government recognizes the problem; large-scale investment programs have
already been scaled back and increased emphasis is being placed on proper O&M
by NIA and the IAs. Limited area expansion through the completion of ongoing
schemes, and moderate increases in yields and cropping intensity due to more
satisfactory O&M of established irrigation works, should ensure that
Philippines is able to maintain self-sufficiency in rice through the 1990s.



- 11 -
The Bank's Role in Irrigation Development
2.27      To date the Bank has lent US$738 million to the Philippines for 12
irrigation projects, one land settlement and three rural development projects
with irrigation components, and one watershed management project. Eleven of
these projects have been completed. The most recent loan was for the Communal
Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2173-PH, 1982). Together, by 1990 the
Bank-supported projects will irrigate about 490,000 ha (including 200,000 ha
of new development, with the remainder large-scale rehabilitation and
upgrading), benefit some 290,000 families, and will help to produce more than
2 million tons of paddy, or about 222 of total projected rice production and
30X of irrigated production.
2.28      Implementation of completed and ongoing Bank-financed projects has
been generally satisfactory, although some operations have experienced delays
because of local funding constraints, design changes, contractor problems, or
peace and order difficulties. Project Performance Audit Reports that have
been prepared for four completed projects (Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
Ln. 637-PH; Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation, Ln. 984/Cr. 472-PH; Tarlac Irrigation
Systems Improvement, Ln. 1080-PH; and Jalaur Irrigation, Ln. 1367-PH) all
indicate such implementation delays. They also indicate general water
shortages, relative to design because of watershed degradation and delivery in
efficiency stemming from inadequate O&M. Poor O&M levels are attributed to
low ISF collections. Responsibility for O&M in all NISs is assigned to NIA,
but funding has thus far been below the levels needed to sustain the overall
performance of the established irrigation systems. Also, because of the
preoccupation with construction, NIA has not yet developed a strong enough
internal capability to carry out O&M efficiently and effectively. To help
offset these problems, the Sank has been asked to support the proposed
Irrigation Operations Support Project (IOSP), which is designed to improve O&M
throughout the entire NIS service area.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation and Objectives
3.1       As with any other infrastructure, proper operation and regular main-
tenance of irrigation works are needed to prevent system deterioration, which
in turn leads to decreases in cropping area, yields and output. Although ISF
rates and collection efficiency are better and the organization of water
users' groups is more advanced in the Philippines than in many comparator
countries, the level of irrigation O&M expenditures and the effectiveness of
the O&M services provided are still inadequate. In 1979, the Government
requested Bank assistance to evaluate O&M of existing irrigation infra-
structure and to develop an action plan for improvement. A consultant study
financed under the Medium-Scale Irrigation Project (Loan 1809-PH), completed



- 12 -
in 1985, identified areas for upgrading and institutional strengthening. 1!
Drawing on these recommendations, NIA prepared a medium-term nine-year
Irrigation O&M Improvement Program, and has requested that the Bank finance
the first three-year time slice of the Program under the proposed Irrigation
Operations Support Project (IOSP). The IOSP would be the first Bank-financed
project in the Philippines primarily to address irrigation system O&M.
3.2       The main objectives of the IOSP are:  (a) to strengthen substan-
tially the institutional and technical capability of NIA and cooperating IAs
to improve and maintain the efficiency of existing NIS infrastructure; and
(b) to improve the operating performance of the NISs through minor rehabilita-
tion works and through increases in the annual funding for and volume of O&M
services.  The IOSP would comprise a three-year Phase I of the longer-term
Irrigation O&M Improvement Program. Activities planned for subsequent Phases
II and III include some major rehabilitation (on 18 NISs) and system moderni-
zation, as well as continued work to improve O&M levels and develop the IA
network. The main targets for the overall Program are the reduction of NIS
system performance deterioration, improvement of water delivery and water use
efficiency to permit increased cropping intensity; and achievement of full
cost recovery of increased O&M expenditures, through ISF payments by
beneficiaries. The IOSP is expected to achieve about 75% of the Program's
final O0M and cost recovery targets. During preparation/preappraisal missions
in 1986 and March/April 1987, and an appraisal mission in October/November
1987, agreements were reached with the Government on the overall IOSP concept,
scope and financing.
Project Description
3.3       The project would cover all of the existing 127 NISs, excluding a
few selected areas where major rehabilitation works would be needed before
improved OEM would have the desired impact. The project would provide for the
following:
(a) Institutional Strengthening of NIA to Provide Improved O&M
Services. More effective and efficient O0M performance would be
obtained through: (i) improvements in the ISF collection process
and in the actual level of collections; (ii) full implementation of
NIA's Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS); (iii) train-
ing for NIA staff in O&M and farmer organization; (iv) performance
of system rehabilitation studies and preparation of O&M manuals; and
(v) rehabilitation of existing, and procurement of some additional,
O&M equipment for NIA.
1/   Other Bank documents on the Philippines have also demonstrated the neei
for improved OM of existing irrigation infrastructure: The Irrigation
Program Review (Report No. 3545-PH of December 15, 1982), the Public
Investment Program (Report No. 5677-PH of August 15, 1985), and the
Philippines Agricultural Sector Survey (Report No. 6819-PH of October 21,
1987).



- 13 -
(b) Acceleration of NIA's Irrigators' Association (IA) Development
Program. Some 390 new lAs, comprising about 96,000 farmers in an
area of 114,000 irrigated ha, would be fully organized and trained
to enable them to assume responsibilities for O&M of the laterals
and sublaterals in their NIS service areas.
(c) Execution of Minor Rehabilitation. Essential minor rehabilitation
would be carried out to restore and sustain the operational
capability of the 127 NISs and enable them to respond effectively to
increased levels of OM.
(d)  Execution of an Expanded Operations and Maintenance Program.  O&M
efforts would be stepped up nationwide, including: (i) system
operations, such as timely operation of gates and spillway controls,
proper operation of canal control structures, adequate supervision
of system performance, timely remedial measures, and regular
recording of canal and river discharges; and (ii) system
maintenance, such as canal desilting and weed control, minor repairs
to canal banks and structures, drainage clearing, and repair and
maintenance of service roads, buildings, equipment and vehicles.
Detailed Features
A.   Institutional Strengthening of NIA
3.4       Improvements in ISF Collection Procedures.  Although ISF collections
have consistently lagged, they have improved substantially in the last few
years (para. 2.20), as a result of improved O&M services to farmers, develop-
ment of IAs to participate in OM work and ISP collections, financial induce-
ments to farmers for prompt ISF payment, financial and service evaluation
incentives to NIA staff for collection performance above designated minima,
and quasi-judicial measures to deal with defaulting farmers. The project
would support and reinforce all of these measures in order to improve ISF
collections further.
3.5       The present ISF billing process is far from satisfactory.  An
estimated 201 of irrigated farm lots are not billed in a typical cropping
season, and billing is often delayed. To address these problems, the NISs
lacking in detailed parcellary maps would be surveyed under the project, all
existing maps would be corrected and a procedure established to ensure future
updating as may be required. Accurate records of service areas, individual
irrigated holdings and irrigation fee registers (IFR) would be prepared for
all MISs, to replace current incomplete and outdated records. These
documents, together with data from implementation of the NIA's new management
information system (para. 3.8) would allow effective monitoring and
verification of seasonal ISF billings, and would enhance NIA's ability to
detect and remedy any discrepancies. They would also permit NIA to prepare
ISF bills well ahead of the close of the planting season, based on field
progress reports of land preparation and planting. The billing process would
be further improved through computerization: 90 micro-computers procured
under the project would be allocated to NIS offices and centers serving over
1,500 ha. In parallel with these procedural improvements, strong management
action and sanctions would be adopted against NIA staff responsible for not



- 14 -
billing irrigated farm lots. The billing efficiency is expected to improve to
100Z of the benefitted area by the end of the second year of the project.
Benefitted area is the total irrigated area minus exempted holdings (those
with an annual yield under 40 cavans/ha, not due to farmer negligence).
3.6       With respect to staff incentives, NIA's current Viability Incentive
Grants (VIGs) now provides bonuses to regional and local NIA staff, totaling
10% of ISF collections above viability, i.e., amounts sufficient to recover
very narrowly defined O&M costs. This would be replaced by an incentive
system which is not based on viability, as the latter encourages minimizing of
O&M expenses. Additional and separate incentives would be given for good
performance in OWM, improved water use efficiency, and for systems with a high
proportion of operable machinery and equipment. Incentive levels would be
modest and were agreed at negotiations. Equipment rental receipts would be
removed from incentive computations, as they are irrelevant to NIA's regular
operations and, in fact, may encourage diversion of equipment from its use in
O&M. All collection costs, including IA collection shares, now recorded as
head office expenses, and equipment and vehicle depreciation expenses, would
be charged to the respective NIS and regional offices. NIA's Office of
Revenue Generation would carefully monitor income and expenses reports for
incentive purposes, to ensure that they do not deviate from financial
records. The Operations Management Office would ensure that the guidelines in
the shared-management (turnover) of VISs to IAs are followed, particularly
with respect to break-even computations and guidelines on the NIA/IA sharing
ratio. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that NIA's Viability
Incentive Grants system would be revised prior to June 30, 1988.
3.7       NIA's options for dealing with defaulting farmers are limited.
Given the socio-cultural context and the physical design of NIS irrigation
facilities, it is almost impossible to impleme"t a "no pay, no water" policy,
which might also adversely affect food production. The legal recourse for
NIA, of going to court as an ordinary civil litigant, is time consuming and
often ineffective, although NIA would secure the services of provincial
officials from the Department of Justice to assist in collection of ISF
arrears as necessary. If irrigation services to farmers and NIA's collection
mechanisms are improved and sustained as planned, the problem of delinquency
should be minimized. ISF collection efficiency would increase from the
current estimate of 59% (para. 2.20) to 75%, which is the target to be
achieved by project completion in mid-1991. This in turn would generate
revenue sufficient to fully recover present OEM expenditures (US$16.40/ha), or
about 62% of the higher level of annual O& expenditures (US$24.80/ha), to be
achieved by the end of the project.
3.8       Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS).  Over the years,
dith assistance from several Bank-financed projects, NIA had developed an
Input Output Monitoring Program (IOMP) that comprehensively monitored and
evaluated production inputs, benefits and bottlenecks at the irrigation system
level. However, it did not cover the physical aspects of NIS operational
performance or ISF collections. Also, information from the IOMP almost always
became available only long after current season management decisions had been
made, and therefore fell short of providing management information necessary
to address several key problems in a timely fashion. A new system (IMIS) has
been designed to replace IOMP. IMIS focuses mainly on the status of system



- 15 -
performance, O&M, land and crop development and ISF billings and collections,
and it is organized so that information can reach management quickly.  Once
IMIS is fully implemented, it will be an effective instrument for the
Irrigation Superintendents (ISs) to monitor and manage the NISs for which they
are responsible. Categories and details of information which will be
regularly collected and evaluated under IMIS will include the following:
(a) operations. availability of water at source, status of land and crop
development, and water requirements, adequacy and timing of releases to
farmers; (b) maintenance: system inspections conducted, problems identified
and action taken, condition of canals and structures, vegetation and silt
cleaning in canals, routine repairs and structure maintenance in accordance
with defined standards; (c) ISF: area planted and area exempted from ISF with
justification, current ISF collectibles, collections and status of back
accounts; (d) expenditures: system operation, maintenance, and emergency
repairs; and (e) production: crop types, area and yields, and details of any
problems encountered. During 1987, NIA implemented IMIS on a pilot basis in
three NISs covering about 32,000 ha. Performance was encouraging, but further
expansion is constrained by shortage of funds. The project would support
implementation of IMIS nationwide, through training and the provision of
micra-computers at NIS responsibility center level. The computers would also
be used for staff training, and ISF billing and recording activities.
3.9       Staff Training.  NIA personnel would receive appropriate training in
techniques of improved irrigation system O&M and IA development. The training
would comprise several short courses in various aspects of O&M, financial
planning and management, records management, personnel administration, system
performance monitoring and data compilation, as well as IA development. NIA
would use local management and training expertise to develop these courses and
provide initial training to NIA headquarters and key regional office staff who
would, in turn, train regional staff to conduct training at NIS level. NIA's
Institutional Development Division (IDD) is adequately staffed and experienced
to conduct this work. In all, about 6,800 VIA staff would be trained in 24
courses ranging from 3 to 12 days'duration each.  A detailed 1 st of courses,
indicating duration, number of participants, necessary equipment and costs is
provided in Annex 1, Tables 4 and 7. A USAID-assisted Accelerated Agriculture
Program (AAP) provides training for 18 NISs in Regions 5, 6 and 10, which
would be excluded under IOSP to avoid duplication of activities.
3.10      Studies and Preparation of OM Manuals.  The project would finance
the cost of 47 months of local consultancy services to assist NIA in the
following three tasks:
(a) In several NISs, substantial improvements in operational performance
and water management could be achieved through appropriate design
modifications and improvements of specific irrigation structures or
portions of these irrigation systems. In order to identify such
improvements and develop a comprehensive implementation plan, NIA
would carry out systematic studies of all NISs under the project.
(b) NIA would prepare individual O& manuals for all NISs, for the
guidance of system-level O&M staff. These manuals would incorporate
standing orders to deal with emergency situations, such as floods
and typhoons, and instructions for regular system operation and



- 16 -
maintenance, with special emphasis on upgrading the quality of
irrigation service and ensuring system safety and sustainability.
The manuals would identify specific tasks and the timing and manner
of their performance, and would assign staff responsibility for
appropriate groups of tasks.
(c) Finally, NIA would carry out studies to identify measures to further
improve the ISF collection system, handling of in-kind payments, and
a scheme for improved irrigation water pricing.
3.11      Equipment.  The project would provide for reconditioning of the
large number of run-down trucks and construction equipment units an hand. To
support completion of some system repair works and to establish an adequate
machinery park for increased long-term O&M activity, the project would also
include procurement of a limited number of backhoe wheel-loaders, motor
graders, compressors and welding machines, none of which are avai-lable in
sufficient quantities in the regions. It would also provide for procurement
of hydrologic and meteorological equipment, handtools, and construction of
equipment sheds. Micro-computers and miscellaneous audio-visual and other
classroom equipment would be procured for training and implementation of the
IMIS. Equipment to be purchased or reconditioned is listed in Annex 1,
Tables 3 to 5.
B.   Irrigators' Association Development
3.12      NIA's longstanding policy for O&M of the national irrigation systems
has been based on its financial autonomy and the direct linkage between O&M
expenditures and NIA's internal resource generation. In recent years, NIA has
added a new dimension to this policy: increased beneficiary participation and
delegation to organized IAs of O&M responsibilities for portions of the MISs
below the main conveyance canals. The experience which NIA has gained to date
in IA development is substantial, and the results are reasonably encouraging
(paras. 2.6-2.9). However, expansion of the IA program, follow-up work to
consolidate and sustain achievements already made, and supervision of
established IAs have been hampered due to lack of funds. Therefore, the
project would include a component to strengthen and extend NIA's ongoing IA
development program. The most vital aspect of this program is to further a
constructive relationship between NIA's O&M staff and cooperating farmers, to
improve NIS performance and maximize potential benefits from irrigation.
Training is essential to enable IAs to acquire the knowledge, skills and the
appropriate attitude to undertake O&M responsibilities.
3.13      Once an IA is developed, it is encouraged to take over maintenance
responsibilities for the laterals and turnouts within the area of its juris-
diction, and to assist in system operation within its area. NIA continues to
collect ISF, operate the or-erall system, and maintain the headworks, main
canals and portions of the system not turned over to IAs. This arrangement is
formalized through a Stage I Contract, between VIA and the IA, under which the
IA is paid agreed remuneration by NIA. The current practice is to pay the IA
a remuneration of P 610 for each clearing of a ditchtender section, of up to
3.5 km for earth canals or 7 km for lined canals. On average, this amounts to
a cost of about P 6,000 p.a. as against P 14,000 to P 17,000 if a ditchtender
were employed. For assisting in ISF collections, the IA is paid an incentive



- 17 -
allowance of 2.5X of collections, if collection efficiency is in the range of
70-100Z; and in addition, 10, of the collection over 1OOZ.
3.14      The next level of delegating responsibility, referred to as Stage
II, is implemented after the IA has functioned satisfactorily at Stage I for
two years. The IA then assumes responsibility for system operations and ISF
collection within its area. Currently this step is formalized under a single
contract between NIA and the IA wherein, for collections up to the break-even
point (where ISP coliections equal NIA's budgeted normal O&M expenditure for
the IA section), the IA is paid 20Z of the amount collected. Collections
above the break-even point are shared equally between NIA and the IA. A third
stage in NIA's IA development program provides for the complete turnover of
the system to the lAs. However, with the exception of one NIS, which is
functioning reasonably satisfactorily, deterioration following complete
turnover has been considerable, requiring substantial NIA interventions. For
this reason, in the future NIA will limit this third stage of turnover to
systems of under about 1,000 ha, in which the beneficiaries are clearly
capable of shouldering such responsibility. Once handed over, the systems
will be classified as CISs. This stage is not envisaged under IOSP. At
negotiations an assurance was obtained that the Stage II agreements would be
modified to be implemented through two separate contracts between NIA and the
lAs-one for ISF collections and the other for O&M. Details would be
finalized during the first year of the project.
3.15      Under IOSP, 390 more IAs comprising 96,500 farmers and covering an
area of about 114,000 ha would be fully organized, registered and trained to
enable them to commence O&M responsibilities (Annex 3, Table 6). Of these,
IAs covering about two-thirds of the area would be contracted at Stage I and
the balance at Stage II. As part of NIA's ongoing program, some 407 IAs that
are already registered and contracted at Stage I would also be advanced to
Stage II by 1990. The related cost, which is insignificant, is not included
in the project. IA development would continue during subsequent phases of
VIA's nine-year Irrigation OM6 Improvement Program.
C.   Minor Rehabilitation
3.16      Studies prepared by NIA consultants on OLM needs of the MISs were
supplemented by an analysis of a sample of 14 representative national systems
selected to cover a large variety of climatological conditons, service areas,
average farm holding sizes, characteristics of water supply, OM costs, and
levels of ISF collection. Initial repair needs were derived from a 1984
inventory of 64 national systems, and equipment needs from information
obtained in the O&M study referred to above. The costs of initial repairs
were then extrapolated to all 127 NISs. The approach employed is similar to
that used in preparing the Bank-financed NIS improvement projects-NISIP I
(Ln 1414-PH) and NISIP II (Ln 1526-PH)--and is justified viewing the scope and
nature of works. It does, however, require an agreement on the criteria and
scope for specific capital investments in system restoration under the
project. Consequently an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
investments in system restoration would be limited to a regional average of
P 3,000/ha in end-1987 prices, and that these investments would be limited to
repairs essential for the supply of required irrigation deliveries.



- 18 -
3.17      Structural Repairs.  The project would provide for minor repair of
diversion works for all 127 systems, as needed. Structural repairs or changes
(repair of overflow sections, stilling basins, aprons, abutments, gates and
their supports) are required for 27 diversion structures, and minor repairs
are needed for diversion structures or headworks for most of the other NISs.
Also, almost all NISs require repair of canal structures including riprap
protection against erosion, replacement of broken gates, lifting devices,
provision of stabilized control sections for flow measurement and replacement
or provision of staff gauges.  Finally, several hundred km of main farm
ditches would be completed.
3.18      Initial Desilting of Canals.  To bring irrigation systems to
required delivery capacity, the project would provid¶ for mechanical removal
of silt accumulation aggregating about 1.4 million m (MCM,I from an estimated
2,900 km of main canals in the 127 NISs, and about 0.4 MCM from 2,200 km of
lateral canals. Silt aggregating about 0.5 MCM would be removed manually from
a total length of about 6,500 km of sublateraL and minor canals.
D.   Expanded Operations and Maintenance Program
3.19      Operations.  The project would increase the levels and improve the
quality of all system operations. Main intake gates, scour gates and spill-
way controls would be operated so as to provide adequate water, while ensuring
system safety and minimizing canal siltation. To ensure the desired water
distribution, watermasters, assistant watermasters and gatekeepers would be
trained and would devote more direct work time and supervision to proper
operation of canal control structures. They would regularly measure, record
and assess canal and river discharges, enabling appropriate adjustments of
gate and control structure settings. This would require recalibration of flow
measure sections to ensure adequate response to cropping stage and weather
conditions. Upstream water savings would permit improved service to tail-end
irrigators.
3.20      Maintenance.  The project would substantially increase the intensity
of regular canal desilting and weed control in each of the NISs, and would
also provide for increased preventive maintenance. For main canals the pro-
ject would provide for yearly mechanical removal of about 975,000 m3 of silt,
i.e., removing an average of 17 cm of accumulated silt from 1,520 km.  For
lateral canals there would be yearly mechanical removal of about 235,000 m3 of
accumulated silt, i.e., removing an average of 5.5 cm of silt from the entire
lgngth of 2,150 km of larger laterals, and manual desilting of about 413,000
m , i.e. removing an average of 8 cm from the entire length of 6,450 km of
smaller sublaterals. Desilting and clearing of farm ditches would be
undertaken by water users as needed to keep them operational, and without
charge to the project. The project would provide for monthly manual removal
of surface and aquatic vegetation for the entire network of main canals by
reassigning ditchtenders to this task and for manual weeding of the entire
network of lateral and sublateral canals ten times a year by IAs or contract
labor. Canal embankments and structures would be maintained and rep.ired in a
timely fashion (para. 4.3). Preventive maintenance of mechanical works and
equipment would include cleaning, greasing, painting, and periodic inspection
and replacement of defective parts of gates and of O& equipment.



- 19 -
3.21      Achievement of this expanded O&M program would require an increase
in O&M expenditures from the current level of US$16.40/ha p.a. (1983-87
average) to about US$24.80/ha in 1991. Improvements in billings and
collection efficiency under the project are expected to generate revenue
sufficient to recover 62% of these higher O&M expenditures by project
completion (paras. 2.18-2.19, 3.7). The project would provide for this O&M
spending level. Ultimately, the final target for the nine-year Irrigation O&M
Improvement Program would be about US$28/ha, to be achieved by 1997.
Project Costs and Financing
3.22      Cost Estimates.  Total project cost, including physical contingen-
cies and expected price increases, is estimated at about US$60.2 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$17.1 million (281).  The cost estimate is
based on end-1987 prices and includes taxes and duties of about U$2.0 mil-
lion. Civil works estimates were based on unli costs derived from cost esti-
mates prepared for 64 NISs for which feasibility-g-ade field inventories and
investigations have been completed. Incremenatal O'.M costs were estimated
based on detailed projections for 14 represen aLdie systems.  Unit (per ha)
costs of proposed staffing, vehicle and equipment overhead and use, and other
expenses estimated for these systems were then applied to all 127 NISs to be
supported under the O&M improvement component--assuming linear increases in
O&M to the projected 1991 level. The current level of O&H expenditures
covered by NIA's own budget (para. 2.23) were then subtracted to leave
incremental costs. Equipment and vehicle cost estimates for new units were
based on the price of comparable units recently or currently being procured.
Estimates for rehabilitation were based on current NIA experience. Costs of IA
development, training, studies and institutional support, including local
consultants at P 55,000 per month, were derived from current NIA unit costs.
Physical contingencies were assessed at 15% of the total base costs.  Price
contingency estimates assume foreign inflation of 1% in 1988 and 1989 and 2.2%
I     in 1990-91 and domestic inflation of 8.2% in 1988, 9.0% in 1989, and 8.5% in
1990-91.  Expected price increases are 3% of total project cost.  Project cost
estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 below and detailed in Annex 1, Tables 1
to 10 and Annex 2, Table 2.
3.23      Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$45.0 million would finance
about 75% of total project costs. The loan would cover 100% of the foreign
exchange requirement (US$17.1 million) and about 65% (US$27.9 million) of
local costs. Financing of local costs is justified by the current acute
shortage of counterpart funds in the Philippines. The remaining project cost
of about US$15.2 million would be provided by NIA and the Government. NIA's
current annual income of about US$6.1 million from ISF and US$2.6 million from
equipment rental and management fees would be supplemented by the additional
US$2.5 million in average annual ISF collections to be achieved under the
project, aggregating US$11.2 million p.a. It is estimated that after coverage
of current levels of O&M (US$7.8 million p.a.) NIA would have income of at
least US$3.4 million p.a. for project purposes. The remaining US$1.6 million
p.a. would be provided by NIA to the extent possible, or by the Government in
the event of shortfall in NIA revenues.  The projected project cash flow is
given in Annex 5, Table 2.



- 20 -
3.24      The loan would be channelled through the Government directly to
NIA. Prior to 1982, transfers of such financial resources were treated as
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
.
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  (Foreign)
--- (million pesos) ----  --- (million US$) --
Rehabilitation Works             217.2   144.8      362.0   10.5      7.0    17.5    (40)
O&M Program                      388.2    35.4      423.5   18.8      1.7    20.5      (8)
Equipment and Spares              38.4   111.5      149.9    1.8      5.4      7.2    (75)
IA Development Program            12.1      2.1      14.2    0.6      0.1      0.7    (14)
Technical Assistance              23.9      4.0      27.9    1.1      0.2      1.3    (15)
NIA Staff Training                 5.4      2.3       7.7    0.3      0.1      0.4    (25)
Engineering and Administration   69.0       0.0      69.0    3.3      0.0      3.3     (0)
Total Base Costs              754.1   300.1   1,054.2   36.4    14.5    50.9    (28)
Physical contingencies           113.1    45.0      158.1    5.5      2.2      7.7    (28)
Price contingencies              171.8    57.0      228.8    1.2      0.4      1.6    (25)
Total Project Cost /a       1,039.0   402.1   1,441.1   43.1    17.1    60.2    (28)
/a   Including duties and taxes of about US$2.0 million.
direct public works appropriations or as equity contributions to NIA, with no
onlending arrangemenit. Although the Government subsequently required NIA to
fund servicing of the foreign loans for irrigation contracted from 1982
onwards, it has agreed, in principle, that if NIA's ISF and other revenues are
inadequate, Government would provide budgetary support to NIA as needed to
ensure O&M funding at the levels agreed to under the project. The Govern-
ment's formal assurance of these arrangements was obtained at loan negotia-
tions.
3.25      NIA has already been channelling all of its ISF revenues and most of
its income derived from investment activity into O&M. To encourage this
practice, all of NIA's counterpart contribution would be used to finance the
O&M component of the project. With Government assistance as needed, NIS would
finance about 52% of project O&M expenditures, and the Bank loan funds would
be used to cover the full cost (minus taxes and duties) of all other
components, plus 48X of tne OM component.  To ensure that NIA continues to
allocate increasing amounts to O&M0, Bank reimbursement against project (i.e.,
incremental) OM expenditures would be on a declining basis, at 85X, 55Z, and
301 of these expenditures in the first, second and third years of the project,
respectively. The aggregate 1988/89-1990/91 O&M financing plan, including
both maintenance of ongoing OM and incremental expenditures is summarized in
Table 3.2 below.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: O&M FINANCING PLAN, 1988/89-1990/91 /a
(USs million)
Z of         X of
Source      Amount  total O&M  incremental O&M
Maintenance of ongoing O&M
expenditures                 NIA          23.5          47              -
Incremental O&M expenditures  NIA            10.3         21             40
NIA/Covern-
ment          3.1           6             12
Bank         12.6          25            48
Subtotal incremental                 26.0          53           100
Total                                49.5         100             -
/a   Only incremental O&M expenditures have been included in the project
costs.
3.26      To facilitate project start-up in mid-1988, equipment purchases,
surveys for civil works, parcellary mapping, and some training and other
institutional development activities would have to be undertaken in advance.
To provide for these pre-construction activities, expenditures of up to US$1.5
million, made after October 15, 1987, would be considered for retroactive
finanCing.
Procurement
3.27      Procurement (Table 3.3) would follow Bank guidelines.  Prior to
tendering and award, the Bank would review all bidding packages for goods over
US$200,000 equivalent, thus covering about 65X of the total value of goods.
All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost over US$3C0,000
equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documen-
tation, thus covering about 402 of the total value of works contracts. Other
contracts for goods and works would be reviewed by the Bank on a sample basis,
subsequent to their award. All consultant selection arrangements and
contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Bank staff have
reviewed local procurement procedures and confirm that they are acceptable.
Also NIA has a good record of performance in the preparation of procurement
documents. Specific procurement rules for the various project activities
would be as follows:
(a) Goods. O&M equipment, estimated at US$3.3 million, and replacement
parts for equipment and vehicle rehabilitation in NIA's workshops,
estimated at US$1.6 million, would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB), except that in situations when parts are



- 22 -
required in small batches at different times and locations, local
competitive bidding (LCB) or local prudent shopping procedures may
be used. Hand tools, implements and training equipment, estimated
at US$0.7 million, would be procured through LCB or local shopping
procedures. None of the individual LCB contracts would exceed
US$50,000, and the total of goods procured under LCB would not
exceed US$2.6 million. Individual items procured through local
shopping would not exceed US$2,500 in value and local shopping
purchases would not exceed US$300,000 in total.
(b) Works. (i) Since minor rehabilitation works, estimated at
US$20.6 million in total, are small, widely scattered over the
country and in several instances remotely located in difficult peace
and order situations, foreign contractors would not be interested
and in some cases even local bidders may not be attracted. For
these reasons about 50Z of the work will be procured under LCB, and
the remaining 50Z would be accomplished through force account, for
which NIA has the experience and capability. (ii) Individual system
maintenance activities, within the total estimated at US$24.3 mil-
lion, are small, seasonal and dispersed and often have to be
executed without interruption of water supply. As such maintenance
works are unsuitable for ICB or even sizeable LCB contracts. Their
implementation would be: US$14.5 million through force account,
US$4.9 million through local minor contracts under LCB (none of the
individual LCB contracts would exceed US$100,000), and US$4.9 mil-
lion through piece-work by farmers' groups. The last method is in
pursuance of the project objective of developing IAs that can assume
responsibility for maintenance of laterals and turnouts within their
areas. (iii) Parcellary mapping, comprising field surveys and
preparation of maps estimated at US$1.4 million, would be executed
as follows: US$0.8 million through LCB contracts and US$0.6 million
using NIA's survey staff who will also provide guidance regarding
the contract portion of this work. (iv) Work estimated at US$0.7
million for equipment and vehicle rehabilitation, for which spare
parts (US$1.6 million) are provided as described in para. 3.26(a)
above, would be done through force account. In addition, further
such work estimated at US$2.2 million, including supply of spare
parts would be accomplished through LCB contracts.
(c) Consultant Services. Consultant contracts, estimated at US$0.2
million, would be awarded in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT /a
(US$ million)
Not
Force     appli-       Total
Expenditure category                   ICB         LCB         account    cable         cost
Civil works - Minor restorative         -         10.3          10.3         -         20.6
work and equipment sheds                        (9.2)        (10.3)                 (19.5)
Irrigation system maintenance           -          4.9          14.5        4.9        24.3
(2.2)        (6.5)       (2.2)      (10.9)
O&M equipment, workshop tools          3.3          -             -          -          3.3
and hydrometric equipment           (3.0)                                            (3.0)
Reconditioning of O&M equipment        1.6         2.2           0.7         -          4.5
(1.5)      (2.0)         (0.7)                   (4.2)
Hand tools and implements, and          -          0.7            -          -          0.7
training equipment                              (0.6)                                (0.6)
Parcellary mapping and updating of    -            0.8           0.6         -          1.4
1SF registers                                   (0.8)         (0.6)                  (1.4)
IA development, training, studies       -           -                      -1.5         1.5
and O&M manuals, including 62                                            (1.5)       (1.5)
man-months local consultancy
support
Engineering and administration /b       -           -             -         3.9         3.9
(3.9)      (3.9)
Total                             4.9        18.9         26.0        10.4        60.2
MM    (-f)    (r ")    M)   (4")
/a   Includes physical and price contingencies.  Figures in parentheses are amounts to be
financed by the Bank.
/b   Includes system operations, which are minimal in cost relative to maintenance.
Disbursements
3.28      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against foreign
exchange expenditures for imported equipment and vehicles, 100% of the ex-
factory cost of such items manufactured locally and 85% of expenditures for
items procured locally. Disbursement for civil works would be on the basis of
95% of total expenditures. Disbursement for institutional development,
technical support, training, and engineering and administration would be 100%
of total costs. Disbursements for the O&M component would be made against 85%
of project O&M expenditures for the first US$5 million, 55% for the next US$8
million and 30% for the final US$13 million (equivalent to 33% of the first



- 24 -
US$13.2 million of total, ongoing and incremental, O&M expenditures, 28X of
the next US$16.0 million, and 21X of the final US$18.3 million). An estimated
schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 2, Table 3, which also includes a
comparison with regional and country disbursement profiles for the irrigation
subsector. The proposed allocation of the loan proceeds is given in Annex 2,
Table 1.
3.29      Disbursements for LCB civil works contracts would be through reim-
bursements to NIA on the basis of contractor payments and certification of
work completed. SOEs would be used for disbursements against expenditures on
civil works contracts less than US$100,000, civil works under force account,
OEM, institutional development, technical support, training, and engineering
and administration. In addition, SOEs would be used for minor local expen-
ditures on equipment and materials costing up to US$2,500 equivalent per
purchase, the direct purchase of which are justified by their small and
frequent nature. Since there is no provision for a Special Account, the
threshold for disbursement applications would be US$20,000 equivalent. NIA
has the institutional capability to maintain related records in a satisfactory
manner, and supporting documentation would be made available for review by
visiting Bank missions.
3.30      Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1991, six
months after loan closing, to allow adequate lag time for releasing
contractors' retentions and processing withdrawal applications. Although the
country and regional irrigation project disbursement profiles indicate about a
10-year period for full disbursements, it is expected that the proposed loan
would be disbursed in 3-1/2 years from project commencement for the following
reasons:
(a)  the proposed project is different from others on which the
disbursement profiles have been based, in that it would cover a
time-slice of ongoing activities in the irrigation subsector;
(b)  the project would cover a number of operating irrigation schemes,
the work involved is simple and does not entail any complicated
design or require any land acquisition or right-of-way proceedings
and would be executed under the authority of 11 NIA regional offices
and 4 special project offices (for the larger systems), which are
already in operation;
(c)  work in the different NISs would be implemented simultaneously; and
(d)  the status of preparation for initial work is sufficiently advanced
to permit an early start on project implementation. VIA would
submit for Bank review a detailed work program for the first year,
with summary preliminary engineering, cost estimates, consultant
work plans and contract bid documents before negotiations. An
assurance from the Government was obtained at negotiations that
similar work programs and funding proposals for each subsequent year
would be submitted for Bank review by June 1 of such year.



- 25 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
4.1       NIA would be responsible for management of the project through its
Systems Management Department (SMD), under the Assistant Administrator for
System Operations and Equipment Management (para. 2.5). NIA's 12 Regional
Offices would be responsible for project planning and the preparation of
designs and cost estimates.   SMD would then finalize and consolidate this
work with support from: the Project Development Department, for overall
preparation of work programs in accordance with the approved project proposal;
the Design and Specification Department, for engineering design; the Equipment
Management Department, for equipment specifications, supply and supervision of
equipment operation and maintenance; the Procurement and Physical Resource
Department, for procurement; the Institutional Development Department, for
issues concerning the IAs and the IMIS; and the Training and Development
Division of the Personnel and Records Management Department, for the training
component. SMD would introduce the IMIS with the help of the Regional
Irrigation Directors (RIDs), since the IMIS is intended to supply the RIDs
with information on the O&M of each NIS for evaluation and follow-up action.
The Regional Offices would also supervise the execution of civil works and
development of IAs, as well as conduct training of NIA personnel and
farmers.  Adequate staff is available for these activities.  The organization
of SMD and its relationships with the other departments involved in project
implementation are shown in Figures 1 and 2.
4.2       The SMD Director would be the Project Coordinator.  He would
(a) plan and  supervise day-to-day implementation of the project by the
Regional Offices, (b) coordinate the project-related functions of other
departments, and (c) be responsible for compiling and submitting to the Bank
Semi-annual progress reports covering all project activities. Supported by
the Treasury and Controllership Departments, he would arrange for release of
funds to the regions, maintain records of financing transactions and exercise
overall control of project funds. He would conduct inspections of project
works to ensure compliance with quality standards, examine progress of work in
all regions to ensure that civil works and institutional development are
carried out on schedule, coordinate with other departments to facilitate
extension of agricultural support services to project areas, and arrange for
training of NIA personnel and farmers.
4.3       The project work would be implemented by NIA's regional OUM teams,
supervised by regional managers. All surveys, plans and contract documents
for minor rehabilitation work would be prepared by the respective regions.
Recurrent O&M would be implemented by each respective region under the
supervision and direction of the regional manager. Recurrent mechanical
desilting will be executed by NIA's repaired or newly acquired equipment.
Manual weeding of main canals will be carried out by ditchtenders (DTs) who
would be reassigned from their present jobs on lateral canals, on the basis of
one DT per 3.5 km of canal length. One supervisor would be assigned for each
five DTs. Weeding of laterals would be assigned to IAs, for which they would
receive a payment of P 650/3.5 km for each of the ten annual treatments.



- 26 -
4.4       At the irrigation system-level, the IS would be responsible for
implementation of IMIS through system-level staff.  A Systems Management
Committee would assist him in data consolidation, analysis, resolution of any
problems identified, and the preparation of reports for submission to NIA
regional and central offices. Membership of this committee would include
watermasters, farmer representatives (particularly IA Presidents) and local
representatives of concerned agencies. The IS would serve as Chairman. At
the regional-level, the Regional Irrigation Director (RID) assisted by his
Operations Division (OD) will bear responsibility for IMIS. The OD would
review reports of the ISs and, in consultation with the region's Institutional
Development Division (IDD), formulate corrective measures. Any major problems
requiring NIA headquarter's attention would be referred to the Assistant
Administrator for Operations (AAO) who, assisted by the Systems Management
Department (SMD), has overall responsibility for the implementation of IMIS.
The SMD would regularly review and consolidate IMIS reports received from
field offices, highlight issues needing NIA management action, and ensure that
problems identified are resolved. SMD would closely coordinate with the
headquarter's IDD on matters involving IAs.  Responsibilities of NIA staff and
farmer leaders for the implementation of IMIS are indicated in Annex 3,
Table 7.
4.5       The headquarters IDD would be in overall charge of IA development.
IDD coordinates IA development programs, and provides planning and
implementation assistance to the RIOs which implement the IA development work
through individual ISOs. The IA organizing group, located at the irrigation
system level, consists of the institutional development worker (IDW),
watermaster (WM), and farmer nominees of farmer irrigator groups (FIGs),
designated as Farmer Irrigators' Organizers (FIOs). The WM acts as the field
organizer/supervisor of the FIOs. The IDW provides the necessary technical
supervision and periodic input to the WM and FIOs. Initial introductory work
includes regular interactions and dialogues with farmers aimed at encouraging
active farmer participation in OG&M activities, improving farmer awareness and
sense of responsibility - thus paving the way for the organization of FIGs,
followed by the consolidation of appropriate groups of FIGs into IAs. The
organization and training of IAs is carried out in four steps extending over a
period of about one year.
Project Implementation Schedule
4.6       Implementation of the project has been planned to take three yearr.
Relatively simple rehabilitation works, e.g. initial desilting of irrigation
canals and drains, which do not require elaborate engineering preparation, are
expected to start within the first year. Restoration of headworks and other
major structures requiring heavier engineering inputs in detailed design and
procurement are not expected to start before the second project year. All
activities related to formation of IAs, training and other institutional
support, are expected to commence during the project's first year and continue
for the duration of the project. The expanded 06M program would start during
the project's first year, but desilting would be phased in gradually to
supplement initial activities. An estimated schedule for project implementa-
tion is given in Figure 3 and the related schedule of expenditure is shown in
Annex 2, Table 2.



- 27 -
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
4.7       M6E for the project would be performed by the headquarters staff of
the SMD with assistance from the regional and NIS offices.  The IMIS (para.
3.8) would generate data from all NISs on a regular basis concerning system
improvements and O&M status, irrigated areas, production, incomes, cost
recovery and institutional development. This information would be
supplemented by specific data collection relative to implementation of the
IOSP (physical and financial progress of the project). On this basis analytic
project progress reports would be submitted to the Bank within one month after
the end of each semester. Within six months after loan closing, a
comprehensive Project Completion Report (PCR) would be sent to the Bank.
Accounts and Audits
4.8       NIA is a Government agency and its accounts are audited annually by
the Government's Commission on Audit (COA). Under the project, NIA would
cause all its regional offices to maintain separate accounts for the project
and would ensure that proper accounting and auditing procedures are
followed. The project accounts would be collated by the Assistant
Administrator for System Operations and Equipment Management, who would manage
the project (para. 4.1). After audit, the project accounts and NIA's annual
financial statements, together with the auditor's comments and his
certification that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had been
used for the purpose for which tbey were provided, would be sent to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.9       Since the project maintains, but does not expand, existing
irrigation systems, its direct environmental impact is essentially neutral.
However, the most serious environmental problems in the Philippines--resource
depletion and erosion in the uplands and degradation of near shore fisheries--
are attributable largely to out-migration of poor farmers from the lowlands to
the uplands and coastal areas. By raising incomes and creating employment in
the lowlands, the project would help to reduce this rate of out-migration, and
thereby provide indirect but important environmental benefits.  Under other
Bank-supported projects, watershed management and erosion control measures are
being undertaken, to help ameliorate siltation problems in irrigated areas.
The Bank is also preparing a study which addresses land degradation issues on
a country-wide basis. The relatively small incremental amounts of agro-
chemicals that might be used on rice as a result of the project would have no
adverse environmental effects. (In fact use of agrochemicals, such as
herbicides, would more likely be reduced due to improved natural controls
associated with better water management.) The project would not finance any
chemicals for weed or pest control in O&M work. Fertilizers would be applied
to forestall depletion of soil nutrients.
4.10      With respect to water borne diseases prevalent in some locations in
the Philippines, successful programs to reduce the incidence of schisto-
somiasis and malaria through drainage, chemical controls, health education and
curative medicine have been financed by previous and ongoing Bank-supported
projects. Through its focus on O&M in existing irrigated areas, the project



- 28 -
would improve drainage, reduce water logging and promote the development of
some otherwise unused swampy lands, thereby contributing further to reducing
such diseases.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Present and Future Cropping Patterns
5.1       Rice is the predominant crop in the farms serviced by the NISs, and
two crops per year are cultivated in most locations. Only about 21 of the
total irrigated area is planted to other crops. Despite the substantial
potential for cultivation of non-rice crops, crop diversification will
continue to be less attractive to farmers due to technology, marketing and
pricing problems. Of the 0.6 million ha area covered by the 127 NISs, about
721 is irrigated in the wet season and 601 in the dry season (Table 5.1).
Without the IOSP, some of the irrigated fields would revert to rainfed farming
with adverse effects on cropping intensity, production, and farm income. Such
effects can already be observed in the NISs suffering from deteriorating
infrastructure due to reduced OlM funding. Surveys in the sample 14 NISs
(whose intensive review provided important base information for IOSP
preparation) indicated declines in irrigated area of up to 41 p.a., with an
average of 1.5X p.a. With implementation of the project, total irrigated area
would be restored to original or modified design levels except for limited
areas where major rehabilitation is needed, and the rate of decline would be
reduced by at least half. Implementation of subsequent stages of the planned
nine-year Irrigation O0M Improvement Program would gradually reduce the rate
of decline to nil as systems are restored and OlM levels are increased. The
higher OlM under IOSP, would make irrigation water more widely available, and
the timing and reliability of irrigation supplies and water management at the
field level would improve. With implementation of the project, the cropping
intensity under irrigation would be restored to an average 1351 beginning 10
years after project iniciation, providing an increment over the without-ISOP
situation of about 71,000 ha irrigated p.a. at full development.



- 29 -
Table 5.1: CROPPING INTENSITY AND AREA, WITH IBIGATION
(127 Irrigation Systems) /a
Future withoufuture with
Present         IOSP /b  IOSP /b
Cropping Intensities (Z)
Wet season                       72           66  74
Dry season                       60           55  61
Total                  132         121 135
Crop Area ('000 ha)
Wet season                      430          394 442
Dry season                      358          329 364
Total                  788         723 806
/a    Total service area of 127 NISs:  597,664 ha.
!b    Average intensities and irrigated crop areas for years 10-30, after
project initiation.
Yields and Production
5.2       About 75X of all rice paddies in the NISs are planted with HYVs.
Most rice is transplanted from field nurseries onto previously puddled land.
Farmers use fertilizers and agrochemicals at below recomended levels, and
their use varies widely across the different areas of the NISs; so do
yields. Among the 14 representative systems, the present yield of irrigated
paddy ranges from a minimum of 2.5 and 2.6 tons per ha in the wet and dry
seasons, respectively, to a maximum of 4.0 and 4.1 tons per ha. These yields
are much lower than the yield potential under good water control and
management and optimal input use. Projected crop yield increases will take
place in the NIS areas due to normal trends in agricultural development with
more efficient use of agricultural inputs and improved agricultural
practices. The yield build-up will be achieved at rates varying from 4 to 10
years according to the size, present state and current agricultural practices
in the different systems. Based on the data from 14 sample systems, projected
average yields at full agricultural development are 4.2 tons/ha in the wet
season and 4.4 tons/ha in the dry season, respectively. For the IOSP analysis
future with and without project yields are assumed equal. Table 5.2 presents
the average annual (two season) yields and projected production for the entire
current service area of the 127 NISs. Taking into account both the projected
average yields and land use intensities, the incremental milled rice
production would be about 194,000 tons p.a. (652 conversion) at full
development.



- 30 -
Table 5.2: AVERAGE YIELDS AND PRODUCTION UNDER IRRIGATION
Future with-Future with
Annual Production              Presentout IOSP /a IOSP lhcremental
Total Annual Yield /c
(tons/ha, paddy weight)         4.5 5.2   5.8  0.6
Paddy Production
('000 tons)                   2,6903,1083,466 358 /d
/a   Assuming current annual rate of system deterioration until year 10, 121%
average intensity thereafter.
/b   Assuming one-half current rate of system deterioration until year 10,
135Z average cropping intensity thereafter.
/c   Sum of two seasons and weighted by cropping intensity.
71   233,000 tons of rice (at 65Z conversion)
Market Prospects
5.3       According to the rice supply/demand projections for 1985-2005
presented in the Agricultural Sector Strategy Review for the Philippines
(World Bank, October 1987), the country is just about self-sufficient in
production, and will remain so for virtually the rest of the century when,
according to the base-case estimates, a deficit of about 41,000 tons may
arise. These supply/demand projections take into account the physical targets
of NIAs' Irrigation Development Plan, which includes IOSP and the more exten-
sive infrastructural improvements of the NISs to be included in the later
Phases II and III of the nine-year Irrigation O&M Improvement Program
(para. 3.2). Since the Plan emphasizes early minor rehabilitation work and
the strengthening of O&M to stem further deterioration of the NISs-while de-
emphasizing the generation of new service area--the timely and effective
implementation of the IOSP would contribute to achieving the projected volume
of rice production, and to the long-run maintenance of rice self-sufficiency,
which is justified by the Philippines' comparative advantage based on physical
and human resource and climatic conditions.
5.4       A well-developed, but underutilized, private marketing system scaled
to the initial capacity of the NISs already exists. Restoration of capacity
production along with gradual increases in production would not overburden
this system. Most of the marketable surplus of rice in the NISs is sold by
farmers to private traders or millers. The numerous private traders operating
in the villages provide competition and offer services such as credit for
inputs, and collection and drying of produce. Most farmers have little on-
farm storage, must repay short-term loans, and have to sell some of their
produce soon after harvest. However, a part of the increased production due
to IOSP would be consumed by the farm households. No difficulties are
expected to arise in marketing the incremental output, which would be only
about 4% of the current total rice output. For the same reasons (established



-31 -
and underutilized markets and minor incremental volumes), the farmgate prices
of agricultural inputs and outputs will not be seriously affected. Financial
prices to farmers are expected to follow projected trends of international
prices for tradeables.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.1       The proposed project would contribute to government objectives of an
employment oriented and small-farmer focussed agricultural development
pattern. The main benefit would be the improved operation and maintenance of
the 127 NISs which would in turn expand agricultural production, increase and
stabilize farm incomes, and generate employment, while making a substantial
contribution to the food self-sufficiency objective of the country. The
incremental annual irrigated paddy rice production due to IOSP is estimated at
358,000 tons, valued at about US$64 million at end-1987 market prices. Since
the project is national in scope, its benefits would have a positive impact
nationwide. In addition, through the projected increased irrigated land use
intensity and the constant need for the systems' O&, the employment impact
would be year-round, helping to prevent outward migration from the rural
areas.
6.2       The IOSP would, through increased rice production and consequent
employment, directly benefit about 430,000 farm families or 2.6 million
persons in the approximate 0.6 million ha of the NIS service area. Most are
smallholders; 88% cultivate farms of less than 3.0 ha size; and 40% of tne
total cultivate farms of 1 ha or less. An estimated 90Z of the farmers live
below the poverty line. Estimates of incremental incomes due to the project
are presented below. The project is expected to generate employment
opportunities during the initial improvement of the systems, and throughout
their steady maintenance. Direct employment as a result of crop intensifi-
cation has been estimated at an average of 11 mandays of hired labor per ha,
or a total of about 22,000 salaried manyears, at full project development.
The project would also foster employment in rice milling, commercialization
and distribution, and other agribusiness activities.
Farmers' Incomes and Payment Capacity
6.3       To evaluate the impact of the IOSP from the point of view of
individual farmer beneficiaries, detailed financial analyses of crop and farm
budgets were conducted on typical models based on data from the 14 sample
irrigation systems. These systems--comprising about 10Z of the total NIS
area--were selected as representative of the entire service area in terms of



-32 -
soil characteristics, climate, system size, cropping intensity, etc.*J
Seasonal crop budgets (rainfed, wet season-irrigated and dry season-irrigated)
were prepared for paddy only, the dominant crop in the NISs. Annex 4, Table 3
presents a summary of the crop budget analysis. Data on yields, physical
inputs, unit prices and crop labor requirements are available in the IOSP
project preparation file. Two indicative farm-unit models--I ha and 3 ha--
were constructed to assess the financial impact of the project on individual
units. The farm models include two crops per year: a rainfed/wet season-
irrigated and a dry season-irrigated crop. At a given combined cropping
intensity for the wet and dry seasons, the budgets reflect the net cash
position of the farm at the end of the year, taking into account the financial
gross value of the farm's annual crop production, operational expenses
Lncluding hired labor, payments on short-term loans, water charges and land
tax. The results of the representative farm budgets show generally low on-
farm incomes, however estimates of present and projected net farm income (in
constant prices) show that farmers could realize higher net income with than
without the project. For a typical I ha farm, incremental annual income would
average P 700. A 3 ha farm would achieve incremental income averaging
P 2,400. Incomes of both sizes of farms would increase by about SX from the
average without-project situation. A summary of the results of the farm
analysis is presented in Annex 4, Table 4.
6.4       An estimation of the benefits that individual farmers receive from
irrigation-comparing the production of a rainfed farm with an irrigated one--
indicates an average increment of 14 cAvans (700 kg)/ha in the wet season
alone, and a total of 54 cavans (2.7 tons) of additional paddy from both
seasons. Net revenue from the additional production is estimated to be about
P 1,150. This illustrates the importance that irrigation service has to the
livelihood of the farmers and suggests adequate gains to justify increased ISF
levels above the average P 290 now being paid (at 55X collection
efficiency). However, the proportion of those gains that a farmer would be
willing to allocate for payment of ISF is limited.  From the results of the
farm models-and assuming that two-thirds of household income is derived from
farm activities and the rest from off-farm work--it appears that all farmers
holding a 1 ha farm currently receive yearly incomes below the estimated
poverty line for the rural areas of P 24,000, or less than US$200 per capita
for a family of six. Although net farm incomes would be increased due to the
project, this would not dramatically improve the overall income situation of
the farm families. 8ost families would be expected to pay ISF at curre.it fee
levels, but the scope for effective broad increases in the ISP rates before
substantial improvement in the overall national economy occurs is question-
able. Reliable and equitable irrigation service should increase the farmers'
willingness to pay for the water they receive, but any decision to increase
fees would have to be carefully weighed by the Government in the context of
its poverty alleviation objectives.
2/ The sample NISs are: 1. Laoag-Vintar, 2. Apayao-Abulog, 3. Camiling,
4. Sta. Cruz, 5. Baco-Bucayao, 6. Libmanan-Cabusao, 7. Inarihan, 8. Bago,
9. Bao, 10. Salug, 11. Pulangui, 12, Simulao, 13, Padada, and
14. Libungan.



- 33 -
Economic Analysis
6.5       Analysis of the economic viability of the IOSP was carried out by
relating the proposed investment and incremental O&M costs to the expected
increomental benefits (net of on-farm production costs) derived from projection
of the performance of the 14 representative systems used to evaluate the
project's impact on the farmers' incomes. The with-project costs consisted of
the investments incurred in the three years of implementation, and the
incremental recurrenc O&M costs during the projected 30 year life of the
prnject. Physical contingencies and engineering and administration expenses,
estimated at 151 and 71 of total costs, were included in the analysis. Price
contingencies and transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies were
excluded. All costs and estimated benefits are in constant end-1987 prices.
The without-project OM services are assumed to continue at the present
inadequate levels and estimated benefits are derived from the incremental
irrigated area resulting from the minor rehabilitation and improved 06M of the
NISs. Incremental area irrigated would reflect a projected increase in
cropping intensity from the current 1321 to 145Z by project end (mid-1991)
followed by a decline until year 10 of only 0.75X p.a., one-half the 1.5Z p.a.
rate projected to occur without the project. Crop yields were assumed to be
similar with and without project. All benefits and costs were adjusted to
reflect prevailing relative economic scarcities of factors of production in
the Philippines acccrding to the following assumptions:
(a) The opportunity cost of unskilled labor was estimated at 601 of the
official minimum wage, which is approximately equal to the
prevailing market rate;
(b) Project inputs that consist largely of imported components such as
equipment and spare parts were valued at their appropriate CIF
border prices. Prices of all nontraded goods and services were
adjusted to border prices by using the Standard Conversion Factor
(SCF) of 0.86;
(c) Present and projected (1995) farmgate prices for traded commodities,
namely rice and fertilizers were derived from the World Bank
Commodity Prices Forecast of September 1987, with adjustments for
quality, freight, insurance, handling, local transport and
processing. The price structures assumed are presented in Annex 4,
Tables 1 and 2.
With the above assumptions, and a project life of 30 years, the economic rate
of return was estimated to be 34Z (Annex 5, Table 1).
6.6       Sensitivity tests were carried out to determine how the project
would respond to changes for the value of key variables. The results,
summarized below, indicate that attractive economic returns would accrue even
with substantial adverse changes in project costs and benefits.



- 34 -
ERR
Base Cost                             34%
Total Cost up by 20%                  22X
Total benefits down by 20Z            201
Benefits delayed 1 year               21Z
Benefits delayed 2 years              16%
Benefits delayed 1 year and costs up 10%           18%
Switching values were calculated at a discount rate of 12Z which was assumed
to be the opportunity cost of capital in the Philippines.  The switching
values test shows that benefits would have to decrease by 31% or costs
increase by 451 for the net present value of the project, discounted at the
12X opportunity cost of capital, to fall to zero. These changes in benefits
and costs are unlikely to take place given NIA's capacity to execution of the
project in a timely manner and thus to fully achieve the projected increased
overall cropping intensity.
Project Risks
6.7       The main project risks would be possible adverse farmer reactions to
raising effective ISF levels through improved billing and collection
efficiency, and the fact that in some areas targets may not be reached because
of prevailing peace and order problems. These potential difficulties should
be eased by improved irrigation services and increased farmer participation
through IAs. The development of IAs would also mitigate the effects of
reduced Government funding of OUM, since farmers would be capable of handling
some works by themselves at lower costs. The measures proposed under the
project to improve ISF collections would increas. the availability of internal
NIA funds for O&M and make irrigation areas less vulnerable to Government
budgetary constraints. Since similar measures have already improved
collection efficiency in the past, their reinforcement can reasonably be
expected to result in further improvements. Other project risks can be
regarded as quite low, since NIA has proven managerial and technical
capabilities, and farmers have responded well to irrigation opportunities in
the past.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1       At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a) NIA's Viability Incentive Grants for its staff would be revised
prior to June 30, 1988, to provide separate incentive payments for
quality of O&M work and for ISF collections (para 3.6);
(b) NIA work and responsibility sharing agreements with IAs at the Stage
II IA development level would be modified so as to be implemented
through two separate contracts, one for ISF collection and one for
ObM (para. 3.14);



- 35 -
(c) NIA investments for system rehabilitation would be limited to a
P 3,000/ha average (valued at end-1987 prices/costs) in each Region
and would be for repairs essential to supply required irrigation
deliveries (para 3.16);
(d) if NIA revenues are inadequate, the Government would provide
budgetary support to NIA as needed to ensure O&M funding at the
levels agreed to under the project (para. 3.24); and
(e) for each calendar year, a detailed work program and funding
proposals would be submitted for Bank review by June 30 of the
preceding year (para. 3.30).
7.2       With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$45 million at the standard variable rate, with a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of fivc years.



- 36 -                                                      AN
PEILIPPS
IRRIATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost Sunerv
P0OOO                            USs000              Z foreign  t of total
Local      ForeigD      Total        Local   Forelgn      Total  exchange   base coats
Investment Costs
Restoration works
Irrigation canal                    90,000     60,000       150,000     4,347      2,898     7,246      40           14
Drains                               91,800     61,200       153,000     4,434      2,956     7,391       40          14
Diversion ad headworks               32,400     21,600        54,000     1,565      1,043     2,608      40            5
Equipment sheds                       3,000      2,000         5,000       144         96       241       40           0
Subtotal                           217.200    144.800       362.000    10.492      6.995    17.487      40           34
Equtpment
New equipment and tools               5,670     31,034        56,705       273      2,465     2,739      90            5
Equlpment to be reconditioned        29,101     49,551        78,652     1,405      2,393     3,7"       63            7
Hydrometric equipment                 1,527      4,581         6,109        73        221       295       75           0
Equipment for 06W training            2,125      6,375         8,500       102        308       410      75            1
Subtotal                            38.424    111542       149.967     1.856      5.388     7.244      74           14
Parcellary mapping                     20,281      3,579        23,861       979        172     1,152       15           2
Studies and preparation of OH
manuals,                              3,600        400         4,000        173        19       193       10           0
Staff training                          5,369      2,301         7,671       259        111       370      30            1
IA development                         12,056      2,127        14,184       582        102       685       15           1
Engineering and administration         39,317          -        39,317     1,899          -     1,899       -            4
Total Base IDWestment Costs        336.250    264.750       601.001    16.244    12.789    29.033       44           57
Physical contlngencies                 50,437     39,712        90,150     2,436      1,918     4,355      44            8
Price contingencies                    67,856     48,857       116,713       478        346       824       42           2
(Total Investment Costa
Including Contingencies)          (454,543)  (353,320)    (807,864)  (19,158)  (15,054)  (34,213)    (44)           (67)
Recurrent Coats
Desdlting                              85,075       3,885       88,960     4,110        188     4,298        4           8
Weeding                               172,575      7,880       180,455     8,337        381     8,718       4           17
Mlscellaneous maintenance             130,540      23,608      154,147     6,301      1,140     7,447       15          15
Engineering and administratton         29,649          -        29,649     1,432          -     1,432       -            3
Total Baes  Recurrent Costs        417.839     35.373       453.212    20.186      1.709    21.894       a           43
Physical contingencies                 62,676      5,306        67,982     3,028        256     3,284       8            6
Price contingencies                   103,934      8,124       112,058       729         57       786       7            2
(Total Recurrent Costa
Including Contingenctes)          (584,449)   (48,803)    (633,252)  (23,942)   (2,002)  (25,965)       (8)         (51)
Total Base Costa                   754.089    300.124    1.054.213    36.429    14.499    50.928        28          100
Physical contingencies                  113,113     45,019       158,132     5,464      2,175     7,639       28          15
Price contiAgencies                     171,790     56,982       228,771     1,208        404     1,611       25           3
Total Project Costs              1.038.992    402.124    1.441.116    43.101    17.077    60.178        28          118
note: Minor differences in totals due to roundlug.



-37 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Restoration Work Costs
Item                                           uantity    Unit cost     Cost
Mm  (km)       (Pesos)  ('000 pesos)
Irrigation canals
Mechanical desilting, main
and lateral                          1.79 (5,025)   26 per m3    46,000
Manual desilting, sublateral
and minor                            0.52 (6,450)   18 per m3       9,000
Bank and road repair                                      LS         15,000
Lining repair                                             LS         10,000
Structure repair                                          LS         70,000
Subtotal                                                         150.000
Drains
Reshaping                                                  LS       150,000
Structure repair                                          LS          3,000
Subtotal                                                         153,000
Diversion and headworks                                      LS        54,000
Equipment sheds                                              LS         5,000
Total                                                            362,000



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
O&M Equipment Costs
('000 Pesos)
Quantity
Item                    number    Unit cost   Cost
O&M equipment and tools
Backhoe wheel loader                 11        575.5      6,330
Motor grader, 60-75 hp                4        937.0       3,748
Compressor, 86-125 cfm               18        151.6      2,729
Welding machine                      28         54.2       1,518
Motorcycle                          200         13.8       2,760
Water pumps                          25         19.3         482
Hand tools and implements                         LS      4,024
System workshop tools                             LS     19,074
Regional depot tools                              LS      14,279
Spare parts                                       LS      1,761
Subtotal                                              56.705
Hydrometric equipment
Rain gauge                          402          1.7         683
Evaporation pan                     150          4.2         630
Staff gauge                       3,145          0.6       1,887
Current meter                        72         40.4       2,909
Subtotal                                               6,109
Total                                                 62,814



- 39 -                               ANNE I
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Training Equipment Costs
--Number of items -   -   Cost (P'000) -
Head-    Regional
Description                quarters   office   Total  Per unit   Total
Audiovisual slide equipment,
complete set                    2          22       24       65.0    1,560
Sound system                      2          22       24        8.0       192
Video tape recorder set,
complete with monitor           1           -         1     200.0      200
Copier machine                     1         11       12      105.0    1,260
Overhead projector                 2         22        24      82.5    1,980
Microcomputer                      2         88        90      20.0    1,800
Camera                            4          33       37       15.0       555
Programmable blackboard           3          22       25       18.0       450
Materials and supplies            -           -         -   lump sum      503
Total                                                             8.500



- 40 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Equipment Reconditioning Costs
Cost (P'OOO)
Item                              Quantity  per unit /a       Total
Cargo truck                        26         80.0            2,080
*        Dump truck                          107       198.0           21,186
i        Backhoe                             33        181.0            5,973
Crane                              12        807.0            9,684
Wheel loader                       25        234.0             5,850
Bulldozer                          33        323.0            10,659
Motor grader, 75 hp                9         295.0             2,655
Motor grader, 120 hp               35        316.0            11,060
Vibratory roller                   34        113.2             3,849
Compressor                         17         27.3               464
Welding machine                    87         12.2             1,061
Water pump                         87          4.3               374
Motorcycles                        1,212       3.1             3,757
Total                                                   78,652
/a Materials and labor.



- 41 -
ANNEM 1
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Parcellary Mapping and Irrigation Fee Register Costs
NIS Service Area With and Without Parcellary Mapping
and Area to be Mapped Under IOSP
('000 ha)
Area under
Total      Area with  Area without  NISIP mapping  Balance area
Region      serv-. 'e area   mapping    mapping         program       under IOSP
1          54.6         43.6        11.0            1.1             9.8
2         133.4        129.2         4.2            0.6             3.6
3         178.4        143.5        34.9           10.5            24.4
4          58.1         41.1        17.0            5.1            11.9
5          18.0         12.8         5.2            3.0             2.2
6          50.2         39.8        10.4            2.5             7.9
7 and 8          13.5         10.2          3.2           0.3             2.9
9          15.9          9.5         6.4            2.4             4.0
10          20.1          6.0        14.1            2.1            12.0
11          30.0         24.1         5.8            4.3             1.5
12          25.4         22.5         3.0            0.9             2.0
Total      597.7        482.4       115.2           32.9            82.4
Costs of Mapping, Updating Existing Maps and IFRs
Updating          Updating
Mapping       existing maps          IFRs           Total
Unit cost (P)              100                20               10
1988
Area ('000 ha)          22.4             82.4              97.7
Cost (P'000)           2,240            1,648               977           4,865
1989
Area ('000 ha)          30.0            200.0             250.0
Cost (P'000)           3,000            4,000             2,500           9,500
1990
Area ('000 ha)          30.0            200.0             250.0
Cost (P'000)          3,000             4,000             2,500           9,500
Total
Area ('000 ha)          82.4            482.4             597.7
Cost (F'OOO)          8,240             9,648             5,977          23,865



-42 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 7
PRILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
NIA Staff Training Costs
Cost per
Duration   Number of    participant   Total cost
Description                                 (days)   participants    (Pesos)    ('000 pesos)
Strengthening training capability of
headquarters and key regional office
staff (3 consultant months at
P 55,000 per month)                         5            46          3,587          165
Course development and packaging
(12 consultant months at P 55,000
per month)                                  -             -       lump sum          660
Trainers' training                            3            29            635           18
Water management                              6         1,847            920        1,699
Hydrology workshop                            3           159            625          101
Equipment maintenance                         5         1,201            825          991
Irrlgation system maintenance                 3           149            635           95
Accounting for nonaccountants                  3          274             635         174
Budgeting/accounting workshop                 3            88            635           56
Records management                            4           131             730          82
Cashiering                                    3            70            635           44
Basic supervisory management                  4           112            730           82
Personnel administration/management           4            95            730           69
Inventory management                          3           152            635           96
Project management                            7           196           1,015         199
Training for MIS                              3         1,847            310          573
Farmer institutional development train-
ing for regional staff and Irrigation
superindentents (4 separate courses)       30           276          5,400        1,490
Farmer institutional development train-
ing for IDWs and WMs (5 separate
courses)                                   26           186          2,290          426
Per diem and travel allowances                -             -       lump sum          350
Course administration                         -             -       lump sum          300
Total                                             6.858                        7,671



- 43-                              ANNEX-
Table 8
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Irrigator's Association Development Costs
Description                                     Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Total
Area to be covered ('000 ha)                    40.6      52.2     21.2    114.0
Unit cost               Total cost -
(P/ha)                 (F million)
Training of IA members                 26        1.0       1.4      0.5       2.9
Training of farmer leaders             10        0.4       0.5      0.2       1.1
Allowances for farmer leaders          72        2.9       3.8      1.5       8.2
Travelling                              9        0.4       0.4      0.2       1.0
Meetings                                6        0.2       0.3      0.1       0.7
Materials                               2       neg.      neg.     neg.       0.2
Total                           125         5.0      6.5       2.6     14.2



- 44,                                 - M  
- 44 ~                        Table 9
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Incremental O&M Costs
(Service area: 597,664 ha)
Item                                      Average cost/ha/yr              Total
(Pesos)                  (P'OO0)
Desilting                                        49.6                     88,960
Weeding                                         100.6                    180,455
Miscellaneous maintenance                        86.0                    154,147
Engineering and administration                   16.5                     29,649
Total                                      252.8                    453,212



- 45-                                 ANNEX 1
Table 10
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
O0M Unit Costs by Funding Source
(Pesos per ha) /a
Government's fiscal year/calendar year
Source of funds               1987     1988    e189       1990    1991 .  1997/b
Beneficiaries
Personnel                    215      215       215      215       225      263
Desilting - Manual             0        0        12       12        14       24
Desilting - Mechanical         0        0         7       12        20       53
Weeding - Mains               26       28        30       32        34       40
Weeding - Laterals             0         2       18       26        30       48
R&R gates, etc.                0        0         0        4         6       10
Service roads                  0        0         0       10        15       90
O6M service vehicles          11       11        11       11        11       11
06M buildings, grounds         0        0         0        6         6        6
Emergency repairs              0        0         0        0         0       20
Collection costs               7        5         0        0         0        0
Miscellaneous                 11        11       11       11        11       11
Subtotal                  270      272       304      339      372       576
Government
Weeding                       11        58       40       30        24        0
Emergency repairs,
restoration                 17/c     20        20       20       20         0
Desilting                     42        0        46       41        33        0
Service roads                  0        0         0       78       65         0
Subtotal                   70       78      107       169      142         0
Total                     340      350      411       509      514       576
/a  1978 constant prices.  Project service area is 597,664 ha.
/b End of NIA's nine-year irrigation OM improvement program, and target year
for full O&M cost recovery from beneficiaries.
/c Average for 1981-87; the emergency repair allocation in 1987 was P 54/ha,
substantially above previous years.



-46-                               ANNEX 2
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Financing Plan and Proposed IBRD Loan Allocation
(US$ million)
Total             Government/
Cost item                                  cost      Bank        NIA
Investment Costs
Civil works                              20.6      19.5          1.1
Equipment                                 8.5       7.8          0.7
Irrigators' Association development       0.8       0.8          0.0
Technical support                         1.6       1.6          0.0
Training                                  0.5       0.5          0.0
Engineerit, and administration            2.2       2.2          0.0
Total Investment Costs                34.2      32.4          1.8
Recurrent (OEM) Costs /a                   26.0      12.6         13.4
Total Project Cost                    60.2      45.0         15.2
/a Loan disbursements on incremental recurrent costs would average 48% over
the project period, but the disbursement rate would decline over time.
Actual loan disbursements would be 85% of the first US$5 million, 552 of
the next US$8 million and 30% of the final US$13 million of incremental
recurrent costs.



47 -                                                ANE  2
Teblea 2
PHILIPPIUNS
mRUGATxON OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Eatln ted Schedule of Prolect SEp.ndltures /
P'OOO                                US$'000
1988     1989     1990      Total       1988    1989    1990    Total
Inveatment Costs
Restoration works
Irrigation canals                   75,159   81,653   44,394    201,207       3,383   3,417   1,736   8,536
Drains                              57,497   83,286   67,923    208,706       2,588   3,485   2,656   8,730
Diversion and headworka              6,764   36,743   31,964      75,472        304   1,537   1,250   3,092
Equipment abeds                      5,010    1,360         -      6,371        225      57        -     282
Subtotal                          144.431  203.044  144.282    491.758       6.501   8.497   5.643  20.642
Equipment
New equipment and tools             38,490   34,554       868     73,913      1,732   1,446       34   3,212
Equipment to be reconditioned       52,612   49,879         -    102,491      2,368   2,087        -   4,455
Uydrometric equipment                3,826    4,156         -      7,983        172     174        -     346
Equipment for O&M training          10,647        -         -     10,647        479       -        -     479
Subtotal                          105,576   88.591       868    195.036     4.752   3.707       34   8.494
Parcellary mapplng                     6,089   12,928   14,058      33,0I5        274     541      549   1,365
Studies and preparation of 0&7
manuals                              1,-,0    11         *^        5,45?         $5      75       77     228
Staff training                         2,092    4,082    4,439      10,615         94     170      173     438
IA development                         6,327    8,837    3,905      19,070        284     369      152     807
Engineering and administratlon        18,633   22,350   11,866      52,850        838     935      464   2,238
Total Investment Costs            284.820  341.649  181.394    807.864    12.821  14.298   7.094  34.213
Recurrent Costs
Desilting                                  -   60,468   67,694    128,162           -   2,530   2,648   5,178
Weeding                               68,809   81,589   91,648    242,046       3,098   3,414   3,584  10,096
Miscellaneous aintenance              36,749   39,073  145,794    221,616       1,654   1,635   5,702   8,891
Engineering and administration         7,389   12,679   21,360      41,428        333     531     835   1,699
Total Recurrent Costs             112.947  193.808  326.496    633.252       5.084   8.111  12.770  25.965
Total Prolect Costs               397.768  535.458  507.890  1.441.116    17.906  22.409  19.864  60.178
/a Including contingencies. Minor differences in totals due to rounding.



- 48-                                 ANNEX 2
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements /a
IBRD fiscal          Cumulative               Standard irrigation project
year and           disbursements              disbursement profile (X)
semester        US$ million    (%.        Philippines             Regional
FY89
First                5.1     (12)          (0)                    (0)
Second              16.4     (38)          (4)                    (3)
FY90
First               25.0     (56)          (9)                    (7)
Second              34.4     (83)         (15)                   (12)
FY91
First               38.8     (91)         (22)                   (17)
Second             44.7      (99)         (29)                   (24)
FY92
First               45.0    (100)         (35)/b                 (31)/b
/a Assuming Loan Closing Date is June 30, 1991.
/b  Full disbursement in ten years.



~ 49 -                           ANNEX 3
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Current ISF Rates, by Type of NIS
(Cavans of paddy per ha) /a
Rice /b                         Annual and
Type of system    Wet season    Dry season    Third crop    perennial crops /c
Gravity                2             3              3                  5
Reservoir             2.5           3.5            3.5                 6
Pump                   3             5              5                  6
Special pump         3.5-8         5.5-12        5.5-12               -
Ia  50 kg of paddy per cavan.
/b Irrigation service fee rates for short-term crops other than rice (e.g.,
vegetables, tobacco, cotton, corn and sorghum, etc.) are 60X of the
irrigation fee rates for rice.
/c Including sugar and banana.
Source: Report on Strategies for the Improvement of Irrlgation Service Fee
Collection, NIA, December 1985.



- 50-                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Adequacy of ISF Rates /a
(P/ha of service arear
Available ISF revenue for O&M per hsa of service area
Increased ISF           Increased ISF
Collection         Current ISF         by 1 cavan dry-         by 2 cavans dry-
efficiency (X)          rate               season crop             season crop
100                 456                   534                     611
90                 412                   481                     549
80                 367                   428                     488
75/b               344                   401                     458
70                 320                   374                     428
60                 274                   320                     367
55/c               252                   294                     336
50                 229                   267                     305
a  Relative to planned annual O&M expenditure rates (i 514/ha by end of IOSP)
indicated in Annex 1, Table 10.
/b Target level of collection efficiency at end of IOSP.
/c Present level of collection efficiency.
Assumptions:  (1)  Projected long-term average with-project cropping intensity
of 135%, comprised of 74% wet-season crop and 61% dry-
season crop, with benefited area 95Z of service area.
(2)  ISF revenue is at 85% of the Government's P 3.50/kg support
price for paddy rice, net of 10% discounts reflecting NIA's
incentive policy for prompt paymente



- 51 -                                       3
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Service and Irrigated Area of NISs. 1982-86
Irrigated area
Service        Wet           Dry         Third        Annual
area        season        season       crop          crop
Hectares
1982             514,334      387,618       317,239           500        2,724
1983             549,930       357,246      287,551           684        5,094
1984             548,345      412,304       282,812        3,519         4,520
1985             568,203      427,492       343,361         2,667        3,396
1986             595,902      435,751       375,847        3,581         2,486
As % of
Service Area
1982                 100            94           77           0.1          0.5
1983                 100            65           52           0.1          0.9
1984                 100            75           52           0.6          0.8
1985                 100            75           60           0.5          0.6
1986                 100            73           63          0.6           0.4
Median  1982-86      100            75           60           0.5          0.6
Source:  Annual Report of Irrigated and Benefited Area, NIA.



- 52 -                              ANNME 3
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Benefited as Compared to Irrigated Area of NISs, 1982-86 /a
(X)
Wet season            Dry season            Third crop
1982                           97                    98                    95
1983                           96                    95                   100
1984                           93                    93                    92
1985                           93                    96                   100
1986                           96                    97                   100
Median 1982-86                 96                    96                   100
/a  Rice and other crops.  No data for annual crops, as the benefited area is
normally the same as the irrigated area (i.e., 100%).
Source: Annual Report of Irrigated and Benefited Area, NIA.



-53 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table 5
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Status of IA Development, June 1987
No. of lAs          '000 farmers                Area
('000 ha)
Target                      2,390                504.3                     653.5
Organized                   1,232                207.3                     335.9
Registered                    994                141.5                     234.9
Contracted                    570                 99.5                     167.5
stage I                    k44V)               (6.}                                        j
Stage II                    (86)               (25.8)                    (36.7)
Stage III                   (35)                (8.4)                     (9.8)



- 54 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 6
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
IA Development Schedule, 1988-90
1988     1989     1990      Total
Ongoing Work Not Funded Under Project
TAs already at Stage I to be
advanced to Stage II:
No. of lAs                                  -       203      204        407
Farmer members ('000)                       -      29.9     30.0       59.9
Area ('000 ha)                              -      54.4     54.7      109.1
Work Included Under Project
IAs already organized to be contracted
at Stage I:
No. of IAs                                 103      107        -        210
Farmer members ('000)                    25.4      26.2        -       51.7
Area ('000 ha)                           30.0      31.0        -       61.0
IAs to be reorganized/organized and
contracted at Stage I:
No. of IAs                                  36       72       72        io0
Farmer members ('000)                     9.0      18.0     18.0       44.9
Area ('000 ha)                            10.6     21.2     21.2       53.0
IAs at 2 and 3 above to be advanced
to Stage II:
No. of lAs                                  -         -       139       139
Farmer members ('000)                       -         -     34.4       34.4
Area ('000 ha)                              -         -     40.6       40.6
Cumulative Targets
No. of     Farmer members        Area
lAs           ('000)          ('000 ha)
IAs already at Stage I to be
advanced to Stage II (not funded
under project)                         407             59.9             109.1
IAs developed under IOSP to be
contracted at Stage I                  251             62.2              73.4
IAs developed under IOSP to be
contracted at Stage II                 139             34.4              40.6
IAs developed under IOSP to be
contracted at Stages I and II          390             96.6             114.0



Am= 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nr
2bte         bliltite fr  ! patettoo of the DStlU
pre-Irett.o Pwleid                     nitial Water ?dtwerJ                   Saalowaste dertem                         Start of ttUtml
Perseem                     (withit an    atb before Wtial            to ao  0.6k after coieto                tri etpitattn  to start Of             dialig. to co  "* after
rpsblo                               water delti,r)                         tcrmp tiag                             teredual drlt_o                        coqieto harwtet                          Po.t-triptioa  eriod
tirrtpti.  _qer-            1. 1et. CON personel to flash,          1. Italmtme mkl  report am Irri-   1. RhuL tLo,te mehy  reports oo              1. Svalatot weekly report. oo           1. Evlinte  eo e  perft      o     of
intendat          0         Om plai  (croppia  emitten.            Sated tad plated onet ad oo             diii t_rte  0   tol beedgtes.           dtebarge.                               ON
patten, of pltir. echdl ot              dipecare.
water d_fwerte) -1d wechd                                                    1. VN If ee report. am  r   dm  ge_  2. taee" that iLrripties bill. aer   2. .tbeto ee maee1 0O  re
tr_eao9e eelaste  mttep.            2. ktewe  thee Irriestloo  ills are        ali ra  t twrietim  bill. ar            dietrlbwted to eeb a  t it
pe"ed to eO. -  the lUt Of             nr  tiftd.                               am wek befor  taretml dpim           3. ttto rep"rt to *oratd
t. AFrr e  oorl_att  mtigp                 irriated ta  pted*  res ore                                                      rto  .o the     are.                   bomrtttad agee.
wtth c          orme  e                 ree i_ud.                            S. Rue LtatO.  ponrto -   e,scoeneec
cie  prosidig  ,gricalteo                                                       of Oda coo ewe   eeti.               3. twaustooreports.a  wistem .    *. _c4        ie pe _t-o m etnti
_ec        "rt  ee .                 S.   eleate repot a   ato cetit  awl" witth etr
of eat coewepeaco eems.              4. Ct Sect.  oordcltio m_tlqa           4. ctatoetat SP eo tlJo Is                    eolmSt qosmt_.
will6 otherP goem at gactlg.            started ioqdlttnal  after the
4. CetA  coordato  metlqaw                                                         first barc eetit  Is the U erov.    S.    _o pebt-e.  mtw1            ,
with qarialtar.l eapr service   S. CDe lete only ealuattion                                                             twelmetia witi soN peromeal.
dtbea t.                                mme 5ag.                             S. 01dcte muey eloa e _ de
mettag.                              6.  wdertalm peet-J   em 
S. Cete _2y *ei  oal _metm                                                                                                 I.-k.
Meetings  ithb CO  personnl.                                                 6. Prpe proom of poet-irrg-
tion repar 0.6k.                     7. terfOm el SI ntwteeg Prwimip
6 f. Ut r e l.toe of piotie,                                                                                              Mimed   I  pre-Irriestima
prepare  a wealp sehedale of                                                                                            period.
meter dahlserte for are" to be
itripted by a.
wat.mtor                    1. Cete metIds. with  tero no    1. prepares *ebi report as leri-    L. Sai alt. stbly rporte an                        1. Snbte meap repor  es die-            1. kbte _mem   r _epert -  Cr
thC  CsN ti1m  of the two epto          sated *ad plated  *re, Nd on           dii c largo of cowl  _eegato.            cb rpr.                                 pli..
em  of 0 are.                           di*cerge  ot Isttrlt heed '-te.      2
2. Pr; pae  asothi2  reports on         2. Submdt. reportn on mtinaea.          2. pdo0 oUl    Ielo pC witesl
2. tafore  1S of aatlcipated phpal-    2. leperes mwathly reports vo               mld atomace.                                                                    meotioned   I      derte pre-
cl and opertitel problem  to           "Inttense  of lSterrl.                                                       I. Detribetee irriation bill. to           itrigatto  period.
hlo ares.                                                                    S. Pri parie  repon  - crop d _ng.         tfrer at leet ae  _mk before
S. After co.letiao of pinttia  to                                                  herbet.
S. Sebdela-eaeaom evalatlo.                am fam  lot to his ore. ehelte   4. Ca dduet seby ewvluatiton
meti. with 32.                          * liet of plnted ore" to be             nm-tinp witb SVt ed IA leera.   4. Cout. waly oalootio
Irritated _bhh.                                                                eet.tp.
4. Codcto mekly .watlooa                                                        S. Submits  list of inetoary pot-
etlog  witb Die ad UA ltedre.                                                  lrriatitoepir woche.
Ditebtedr                   1.  taott  the M la inforaia  the      1. lee1r  cnaahilae  of spply           1. iures, cllaonlto"e   of sply         1. AM9iete 1t the distribeitat Of       1.  erform  fetit.a  prwiomip
frm    o1f the mertip eo the           cowls.                                  cull ala.                                Irrigetno blue to farmer at             mea"e _ader oth  pre-ri-
ON pem.                                                                                                                 least oM Wt beftore beret.              stad  period
2. Boeom  that cele  ore cleared                                                                                        2. Intfor  bill coll eton ebicb
of water flew oebtrortlo.                                                                                               frmwn are to pe  their bilL.
ftmrr toad1re               d. Iform felt fmeo t1t_t Ct 1. Borem  thet fa* d1theba are                      1. t-arst that fare dithe* are          I. dASgtd la the distribetim  of        L. Perform  famitnes preItSelt
pln e  to the _       .tm. M           mittled.                           _.rtatp. irr ti   btUi.                                                   _       C      tIe_   _r  pre-rrgatit
2. tItorm  bill collactors *iAcb
2. Iorm  U of  eictad CON                                                                                                  fare are to pey thetr bUh .
probiin emS Mt of crodit/lapet
S. I_e   that Ce_  to the IA
e  are cle"e  of Inm   roetb
eS  other eatctit".



- 56 -                             ANNEX 4
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Rice Price Structure. 1987-95
(Constant 1987 prices)
1987           1995
(US$ per Metric Ton)
Export price, 5X broken, FOB Bangkok                   212             265
Grade differential (less 20X)                          (42)            (53)
Ocean freight and insurance                             15              15
CIF Price, Manila                                   185             227
(Pesos per Metric Ton)
CIF Price, Manila                                 3,830           4,b0Y
Economic farm-gate price /a                            2,414           2,988
Financial farm-gate price a                            3,500           3,500
/a Paddy weight assuming 652 conversion.
Source: World Bank: Commodity Price Forecasts, September 1987.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECr
Summary of Fertilizer Prices, 1987-95
(Constant 1987 prices)
1987       1995
Urea
US$ per Metric Ton
Export priceba-gged, FOB, Indonesia                     118        204
Ocean freight and insurance                              24         24
CIF Price, Manila                                      142        228
Pesos per Metric Ton
CIF Price, Manila                                    2,939      4,720
Economic farm-gate price (P/kg nutrient) /a           8.4/8.9  12.2/12.8
Financial farm-gate price (P/kg nutrient)             9.0/9.5  12.8/13.5
Triple Superphosphate
us! per 1%tric Ton
sxport price-bulk, FOB, US Gulf                         131         178
Ocean freight and insurance                              37         37
CIF Pricb, Manila                                      168        215
F         Pesos per Metric Ton
CIF Price, Manila                                    3,478      4,451
Economic farm-gate price (P/kg nutrient) /a           9.4/9.9  11.5/12.0
Financial farm-gate price (P/kg nutrient)           10.0/10.5  12.0/12.7
Muriate of Potash
US$ per Metric Ton
Export price bulk, FOB, Vancouver                        65         102
Ocean freight and insurance                              23         23
CIF Price, Manila                                       88        125
Pesos per Metric Ton
CIF Price, Manila                                    1,822      2,588
Economic farm-gate price (P/kg nutrient) /a           4.4/4.9    5.6/6.2
Financial farm-gate price (P/kg nutrient)             4.8/5.2    6.0/6.5
/a Range of 14 representative irrigation systems.
Source: World Bank: Commodity Price Forecasts, September 1987.



.MNEX 4
Table 3
PHIL[PPINES
IRRIGATION OPERAT EONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Paddy Crop F..irnecial Budgets /a
(198,I Pesos)
Present                           Future (with and without IOSP) lb
Unit        Rainfed      Irrigated-wiat  Irrigated-dry      Rainfed      Irrigated-wet  Irrigated-dry
Yield                   Ton/ha          2.4             3.4             3.4             2.8             4.2             4.4
Farm-gate price          P/ton         3,500           3,500           3,500           3,500           3,500           3,500
Gross value of           P/ha          8,400          11,900          11,900           9,000          14,700           15,400
production
Production cost         P/ha /c        2,036           3,237           3,447           2,261           3,995           4,322
Net value of pro-        P/ha          6,364           8,663           8,453           7,539          10,705           11,078
duction (before
labor cost)
/a Average values for 14 representative Irrigation systemas.
/b At full agricultural development.
/c Includes all input costs, land tax and irrigation service fee, at current ISF rates and 1002 collection efficiency.



ANNEX 4
Table 4
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Farm Financial Budgets /a
(1987 F'0O0)
1-ha farm                                  3-ha farm
Future        Future                       Future         Future
Present    without IOSP   with IOSP        Present    without IOSP   with IOSP
Land use intensity (%) /b          160            155            161           160            155           161
Gross value of production          17.9          21.5           22.8          53.7           64.5           68.5
Production cost
Operating cost /c                5.4            6.2            6.7          16.2           28.8           20.0
Hired labor                      1.9            1.8            2.0           6.7           6.6            6.9
Net farm income                    10.6           13.5          14.2          30.8           39.1           41.5
/a Average values for 14 representative syetems.
/b Farm models comprise two paddy crops per year: a rainfed/irrigated crop in the wet season and an irri-
gated crop in the dry season.
/c Includes all input costs, land tax, financing charges on short-term loans for inputs, and irrigation
service fee-at current ISF rates and 100% collectior efficiency.



- 60-                                       ANNEX -
Table I
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Economic Beneflts and Costs
(P million)
IBRD fiscal year:  1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997-2018
Benefits                     110.1   215.9  296.2  425.3  464.9  462.3  484.2  450.6    447.4
Costs
Civil works                116.9   151.3   98.8      -      -       -      -       -        -
Equipment                   85.1    65.7    0.6      -      -       -      -      -         -
Technical support            6.3    11.0   11.0      -      -       -      -       -        -
Staff training               1.7     3.1    3.1      -      -       -      -      -         -
Irrigator's Assn. dev.       5.1     6.6    2.7      -      -       -      -      -         -
Recurrent OUM               84.9   133.5  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2  206.2    206.2
Engineering and admin.      21.0    26.0   22.6   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4   14.4        14.4
Total Costs             321.0   397.1  345.0  220.7  220.7  220.7  220.7  220.7    220.7
Project Net Benefits        -210.9  -181.2  -48.8  204.6  244.2  241.6  263.0  230.0    226.7
Internal rate of ret..rn - 34%
Net present value (1988) discounted at 12? - P 935 million



-61-                                    ANNEX 5
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cash Flow
(P million, constant end-1987 financial prices)
IBRD fiscal year:  1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  1997-2018
Cash Inflow
IBRD loan                  343.2   377.8  211.7    6.1      -       -      -      -         -
ISF collections /a           5.9    37.6   74.1  105.4  101.8   98.2   94.7   92.9        87.5
Total                   349.1   415.4  285.8  111.5  101.8   98.2   94.7   92.9        87.5
Cash Outflow
Civil works                132.6   171.6  112.1      -      -       -      -      -         -
Equipment                   96.9    74.9    0.7      -      -       -      -      -         -
Technical support            7.1    12.4   12.4      -      -       -      -       -        -
Staff training               1.9     3.4    3-4      -      -       -      -      -         -
Irrigator's Assn. dev.       5.8     7.5    3.0      -      -       -      -      -         -
Recurrent O&M               96.9   153.1  237.1  237.1  237.1  237.1  237.1  237.1    237.1
Engineering and admin.      23.9    29.6   25.8   16.6   16.6   16.6   16.6   16.6        16.6
Total                   365.2   452.5  394.7  253.7  253.7  253.7  253.7  253.7    253.7
Financing from Other NIA
Sources or from Government   16.1    37.1  108.9  142.2  151.9  155.5  159.0  160.8    166.2
/a   Total collections minus funds to finance ongoing O&M, which would be covered before funds
would be allocated to the 0&M incremental expenditure provided by the project.  The total
collection estimates assume current ISF rates with a linear increase in collection
efficiency to 752 by 1992 and linear expansion of irrigated cropping intensity to 1452
over the same period. Subsequently collection efficiency remains constant at 75Z but
cropping intensity falls by 0.752 p.a. until 1997, than averages 1352 through 2018.



-62 -                              ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A. Project Preparation Reports and Related Documents
1. Irrigation Operations Support Project Main Report (preparation
report), NIA, May 1987.
2. Preparation Mission Consultant Report, Rolando Dy, November 1985.
3. An Evaluation of NIA's Cost of Water and Farmer's Capacity to Pay in
National Irrigation Systems, NIA, December 1985.
4. Strategies for the Improvement of Irrigation Service Fee Collection,
NIA, December 1985.
5. In-Depth Management and Operations Review of the National Irrigation
Administraticn, Center for Research and Communications (Philippines),
March 1987.
6. Guidelines on Operationalization of Irrigation Management Information
Systems (IMIS), NIA, no date.
B. Working Papers
1. Detailed crop and farm budgets
2. Financing and economic price/cost data for project inputs
3. Unit and overall project cost tables
4. Tables related to financial and economic analysis



PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
NIA Organization Chart
M UA BOARO OF OLRECrtORS 
CENTRAL~~ OFlC - --- - - - -- 
CENTRAL OFFICE                    L    Exaccutiv-0o Cumvtu-u  -   ... .          ADMHSTRATOR               ... L         ummawiwjlix       LJh
CCwpotate Ptattmunq Statl    _ _ Pti   lesStllaw   tl
Assistant Aamiinstrator                     Assistant Aormstralor                         i                                        Assistant Aonvoustrstoi
& tniptumrnvilitjtoi                     Equtipmont Mana  flzuit                    Fmiiancu & ManaUgli,uiit                    Aasiustatsuirvicts
Infu_e l              Constiuctiun          Institutional          Systems            Controuliesthp          Tieasumy        PL-rsonnet &Recuoa _    Pocuvime*it b Phrs-
DevU..pmneiit Dept      ManagemenSt Dept      Dawtopment Dept       Management Dept            Oept              ODepaemnent       Management DePt          *al Resources Dept 
I DPlotuct tllvonha    Planning a            Farmer s             Maintenance            Teneala  .                                                    PcomrŽe.t D.visio,|
ScLItWa(ul  Division    Assistance                                  Accoontig           Cash Division           Division              P.opeity Division
Ube & ELon4ui eS            Contract                                    Repair S           Foroign Loans           R%vun.m Pulsonnul DBviblur Aioldtig Facititios |
| Dvis-on            Aamrnistialion         truigator s           Irnprovement          Accounting           Genutiaton                                Mduteiitwiaie ODiVsiusi
D.Visloil          Orgamzalson             OivisWioI            Divistoli        Services Division        Recoa5s
Plull fulinalb     Protect Momtorfing                             Research            Bugout Dlvisiud                            MD,esn                  Guuii.it Sivicus |
a EvaluattonDeveoprnentRarotaam
| W.ile RetioitLeb           D=vic wo            DDviswviiI
Utlbzat,uwt Dv,b.o#Lj
Speslul Pro~Speifisr pcal tions Oept  | Management Dept    I                         SC" 1uervces D mepet      P  Leeal Oetilt_
I   I IEqwiprmnt Ptamwiftl                  l Otgaruzation S & OI
|Design Div O|FC                                                 I   Management
I                 ]   I OperatIon    l                           I  Pro5parean9 I                        t                   I 
I  Division s              Divaston                           I
I  Regional       h
t rnualion OSo       |
FtELD OFFtCES   I  I                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _                     _I                        I                              I
Eniern                                                                         waililwl                                   L ,Awbeavj g         g.. -       
D"vistotta~~  ~~~      M1: .1 tJana   I  Dwi"ttsM||                t      Ovus1     vp tDmrn                          Dtvowts        0I
fuioign Assisted    i                              ratiot Syst          | I
L_   Pe.ts   -  j                   t        W                 , _



PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Administrator
Assistant Administrator |        Assistant Administrator          Assistant Administrator |        Assistant Administrator
for Project Development   __        for Operations &     _                  for             __               for
& Imple.nentation             Equipment Management             Finance & Management    _     Administrative Services
Institutional                           Director                              Equipment
Development                 Systems Management Department                    Management
Department                        (Project Coordinator)                      Department
Operation & Maintenance Division
Repair & Improvement Division
Research & Development Division
Regional Irrigation
Offices
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|   Offices                                                                1
ker/rw4 1 30t>



PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                     YEAR 1         YEAR XQ       YEAR 3
1 Minor Restoration Work
2. Improved O&M
3. Procurement of Equipment:
a. For O&M
b Hydromet. & Hydrological
c. Training
D. Spares for Reconditioning Equipment & Vehicles
4. Farmer Orgarizing & Training
5. Staff Training
6. Mapping. Updating IFRs, & Improving ISF
Billmg/Recording/Colection
7 Studies & O&M Manuals
itsrw4 1130a



REGION I
6                                                                                  IRRIGATION       PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
REGIONAL LOCATION OF NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
IS 56A6166IAN                                                                                                         A    Notionol Irrigation Systems
I1 IOW6676SO                                                                                                                Railroads
REGION 11                                                                                                                 Roads
Region Bo-ndaries
Coos                                                                      A
;2 C655006  5'                                                                    Ap-o
REGION IIIAO
6- C6666605                                                                     ~~~~                  ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 too  200  300
A                                                  I5I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOMETERS
asIasIsO                                                   4' AUNAI  %       A' AbA
REGION IV                                                                        4'
-I   A ANA_
aia,wis u60                                     A'    A        NnS           4 0      A  .4'
OSs 555 N                                                  4''-<               4
REGION IVManrIa
751955                                                                      A.:J^Fjf  '6 ,/ F \
O 666000                                                        A,I
.6 5607055                                                  ,         'II 1
660                                                              "N; |~P    ' -    .A
REGION Vt                RE4ON Xi
5. 6460.56 601. 6- &. ,t
REGION 'Rl               REGON Xl                            S-                                   , 
REGIIUN VII                                                                                                                                   0-
12  ;                                                                                                                                                                         12'-eaU/     W,,X^ 9  71<
REGINON I
REGION EtI X             5660006
06066006N5                  a msaba oa
REGION EXl                                                                                   2      <I                     \     
REGO@NX 0)                                                                                                                       
106                                                                                                                                  Ia.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
A,,
oC                                                                                                                                         X  0Ia 
1sso~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - '. ~ ~ ~ ~          ~            ~           ~           ~          ~         ~         D 
6~~  45906666  ,.    PHILIPPINES                                       E,boa
I-  -0  -                                                                 asa0
-    -MALAYSIAs...4sV>...
]  ~~ __#w                    w                                                      /                       I    /    R  Ja1a                                         0
-a_ ~           ~             .\                                         .                                       :        <
>                            INDONESIA



