Doumnt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13826
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2948-PH)
DECEMBER 29, 1994
Agriculture and Natural Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CMiRdRfl$I't ERQl VALEMITS
I eo (C    )
C1n1-rexiicr ' 'chl og ii Rates
-r   n:            .    L9a;J P    r 0    F iP.l.
4-'i',''  ('4I -'ti''' L5 '1Sr   t'!/' r       -          P2;jl0 t391
A  1T -':''a    j 'Pa  e'I!   ' ii       - eJ.;    'ht' .   a')   0  99- 1  ,
GsveZrnment  ;t  the  Philippines
Fiscal Year
11   gt Est atnd  l.easures
rPft::   a  2- c : ,,r.cm
Abbbreviari t  i. is
CDI~~~~~~~~~~~~- :01' rSO -si t t           t 1'   11001   ty
DA             l) rmn i-,I Ie-iIt  of   ,gl- i n I InIJ:t' Ž ]
ERP                           "A it a' of  Pieull II
IA              11 1gB 01 AI,sot"'tio:i
I DE-          T.j'3t I tLt1 4       De"elopment  Department
Il-if t "        LI I      S -ion  Mlavagement  Informat.ion  System
IOSP           I   if gationl  Operationai  Support  Project
IRC            1n n(J3lt 1nn  Peapor:sibilit>   Cent:re
ISI'                 9 -Iit ion  ServnJice  Fee
LBL!             ;i2 i Bank>  of  the  Phi lippines
NFS"           NT 1: I 4i1,i  FPoel  Au t haotity
NIA            Nat: ona'  Irri1gation  Ardminist uation
1115           I:ati- eraS   <ii tinjat iGll 'System
OECF           O ''- 2:-s s Fv onomi r  0ooperation    UTiod  (Japanll)
0011            ,:-  a ti p  I c I and  Ma ti i it  00a n C
Pcs            1    IL;        u  I  mp Lit ' or  !'?(porf
RIO            }-c.'r t i   tn I   h u u -i'j,i t  i  Cea  -<ft
SAP              t o- IAra'ii' ii  Pt >1ort:
51            '        . ' lit " Drtt-' t  'Jep I' tt
T TS1,01I      Tf,  tR I      it 4       -pt    fi- I: L  national  Devne.lopment
N^:P            Wi t: 1' :t ') j"et't Sit eat i'o 1n
NC>            NI 'lin-hc,lzt'  Po jec-:   Si: at I  j (')II



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                          December 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on the Philippines
Irrigation Operations Support Project (Loan 2948-PH)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Philippines-Irrigation Operations
Support Project (Loan 2948-PH) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part n
contributed by the Borrower. A year after effectiveness, US$21.5 million of the US$45 million loan
was canceled when the borrower obtained lower cost refinancing, with Bank assistance, from OECF
(Japan) and USAID.
As planned, the project strengthened the National Irrigation Administration and
cooperating irrigators' associations, and rehabilitated and improved the operation of irrigation
systems. Despite public funding shortages and natural calamities, most construction targets were met
or exceeded. Cost recovery and funds for operation and maintenance increased. As intended, a
majority of the irrigators' associations agreed to pay charges and to take responsibility for operation
and maintenance of secondary canals. Water distribution improved, but canal silting remains a
serious problem as erosion of degraded catchments continues. The project design did not include
agricultural services to complement irrigation improvements (but some irrigators' associations stepped
in), and poor planning criteria resulted in some low priority construction.
The PCR gives a detailed account of project implementation, although the re-estimated
economic rate of return, which is very satisfactory, is not well documented. The outcome of the
project is rated as satisfactory, sustainability as likely (although continued investments are required),
and institutional development as substantial. A follow-up project is under implementation.
The main lessons should be of value where similar strategies are appropriate: cost
recovery and improved operation and maintenance of rehabilitated irrigation systems were achieved
by turning over these responsibilities to irrigators' associations, which may also provide
complementary support services; systematic monitoring of irrigation operations can help improve
performance; and cofinancing on suitable terms should be confirmed before committing Bank funds.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(Loan 2948-PH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface     .    .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .     .   .     .   .   .   .     .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  i
Evaluation  Summary    .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . . .  . .  .   iii
PART  I:      PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE                   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
1.   Project  Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . .  .                               1
2.   Background       .       .    .    .     .    .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .     .    .    .    .     .    .    .     .    .     .    .     .  1
3.   Project  Objectives  and Description  . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . . .                               2
4.   Project  Design  and Organization    . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . . .  . .                            2
5.   Project  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . .  . .  . . .                               3
6.   Results       .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  10
7.   Project  Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . .    11
8.   Bank  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
9.   Borrower  Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .  . .  . .    12
10.   Project  Relationship  . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . .    13
11.   Consulting  Services    .  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .  . . . .    13
12.   Project  Documentation  and Data  . . . . .  . . .  . . . . . . .  . .    14
PART  II:   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE                          .  . . . .  .  . . .15
A.   The  Project  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . .  .  .  .   15
B.   Implementation  Review  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  .  .  .   15
PART  III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . .   17
1.   Related  Bank  Loans  . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  .  . . 17
2.   Project  Timetable    .  . .  . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  . .    18
3.   Loan  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .    18
4.   Project  Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  . .    19
5.   Project  Costs  and  Financing    . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .    21
6.   Project  Results    . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  . . . . . .  . . . .    23
7. Status of Covenants .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
8.   Use  of  Bank  Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .    26
ANNEXES
1.   Annex  1,  Table  1:   Economic Rate of Return  (ERR)  Calculation  . . .    28
2.   Annex  1,  Table  2:   ERR at SAR  Rice  Price  Projections   . . . . . . .  29
MAP: IBRD 20485
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(Ln. 2948-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Irrigation
Operations Support Project (IOSP) in the Philippines, for which Bank Loan 2948-PH
in the amount of US$45 million was approved on June 2, 1988. The Loan amount was
reduced to US$23.5 million when co-financing under USAID Grant No. 492-9385 of
US$1.5 million, which was later increased to US$2.7 million, to fund the
institutional strengthening and IA development components, and OECF (Japan) Loan
No. PH-P 96 of Yen 2.5 billion (then equivalent to about US$20.0 million) to
finance the irrigation system and rehabilitation work, became available in April
and May 1989, respectively. After two extensions for a total period of 14 years,
the Bank Loan closed on June 30, 1993. The last disbursement from the Bank Loan
was made  on July  15,  1993  with the  reduced Loan amount  fully utilized.
Disbursements under the USAID Grant and OECF Loan, which closed in December 1991
and September 1992, respectively, were about 76% and 100% of the respective Grant
and Loan amounts.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Offfice based on a draft by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
mission which visited the Philippines in May 1993. They are based on a review
of all relevant project documents, field visits to selected project areas and
discussions with the Borrower's project staff and associated Bank staff. Part
II was prepared by the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), the implementing
agency for the project.
The Bank wishes to thank the management and staff of NIA for their
cooperation and assistance in preparing this PCR.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(Ln. 2948-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        This was the first Bank-financed irrigation project in the Philippines
designed to support and improve the operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing
national irrigation systems (NIS). Its main objectives were to: (a) strengthen
the institutional and technical capability of the National Irrigation
Administration (NIA) and cooperating Irrigators' Associations (IAs) to improve
and maintain the efficiency of existing NIS infrastructure; and (b) improve the
operating performance of the NIS through minor rehabilitation works and through
increases in the annual funding required to improve the level of O&M service.
The project was planned and formulated as the first three-year phase of NIA's
nine-year irrigation O&M improvement program that would cover all existing NIS,
with a total service area of about 600,000 ha.   Along with the physical
improvement of NIS, the project provided for a wider participation of water users
in decisions and activities related to NIS by supporting the organization and
formation of IAs and by providing for their training. The project also provided
for the reconditioning and procurement of essential O&M equipment, and for
technical assistance, various training programs and improvement in irrigation
service fee (ISF) collection efficiency.
Implementation Experience
2.        Overall, project implementation was satisfactory although it took 1lW
years longer than originally planned. Project implementation was slower than
expected at the outset, mainly because of delays in arranging and firming up co-
financing from OECF and USAID; a change in NIA's top management in mid-1989; and
cumbersome procurement evaluation and approval procedures. Other major problems
encountered during implementation were a serious shortage of local counterpart
funds and unforeseen natural calamities (earthquake, volcanic eruption, typhoons
and floods). The former hampered the progress of the project in 1991 and 1992,
while the latter resulted in the need for substantial additional repair work of
an urgent nature. Also, the inadequacy of support services such as farm inputs,
credit and post-harvest facilities caused difficulties for the farmers.
3.        The Bank loan was reduced from US$45 million to US$23.5 million in
1989 when co-financing of US$1.5 million (later increased to US$2.7 million)
under a USAID Grant to fund NIA staff training and IA development components, and
an OECF (Japan) Loan of Yen 2.5 billion (then equivalent to about US$20.0
million) to finance the irrigation system rehabilitation work, became available



- iv -
in April and May 1989 respectively.   The Bank loan was reallocated on two
occasions and the loan closing date was extended by 1 1/2 years from December
1991 to June 1993.
4.        At project completion in December 1992, most of the repair works were
completed as planned, benefitting 165 NIS covering a total service area of
621,100 ha,  some 3.5% higher than the appraisal  target.   However,  further
rehabilitation work is required on a selective basis. The adoption of an average
allocation on a per ha basis for system rehabilitation resulted in some works of
less priority and viability being carried out.  This could have been avoided if
a selective strategy of cost-effective rehabilitation works had been adopted. All
field works in respect of the cadastral surveys were completed. However, there
was a shortfall in mapping due to shortage of local funds. Initial desilting of
canals has been effective although the achievement of the appraisal targets has
ranged between 84% and 941 due to apparent overestimation at appraisal.   The
improved O&M and annual desilting have proved effective in improving water
distribution resulting in the consequent improvement in ISF payment. However,
silting is still the biggest single physical factor affecting system operation,
and annual removal is a major expense.
5.         Provision  of  training  and  support  to  IAs  proved  useful.    The
organization of IAs and the transfer of O&M responsibilities from NIA to IAs have
exceeded appraisal expectations. Some 836 IAs covering a service area of about
274,000 ha were organized under the project and about 1285 IAs, including 584 IAs
organized under the project, have entered into O&M contracts with NIA. System
operation and ISF collection with IA participation have been more satisfactory
than in the case of NIS without IA participation. Although delayed, the project
components for procurement of equipment, improved O&M training, studies and the
preparation of general and specific O&M manuals were satisfactorily completed.
The computerized Irrigation Management Information system (IMIS) was only
partially implemented, due mainly to inadequate local funds.
6.        Actual total cost of the project amounts to US$69.1 million  (Peso
1,714 million), about 15t higher than the appraisal estimate of US$60.2 million.
The increase is due mainly to the additional O&M expenditures over the extended
implementation period.
Results
7.        Overall,   the  project  was  successful  and  had  a  significant
institutional impact. It largely achieved its main objectives of strengthening
the capability of NIA and IAs in system O&M, assisting the development of IAs and
their  participation  in  O&M  and  ISF  collection,  improving  the  operating
performance of NIS, and increasing the ISF collection efficiency.
8.        Due to the improved O&M during 1987-1992,  the irrigation intensity
increased from 134% to 139%, compared to the appraisal estimate of 135% at full
development.   During this period, the ISF collection rate, which is greatly
influenced by the availability of improved irrigation services, increased from
about 48% to 619 of current billings, a significant improvement though lower than
the SAR target of 75%.   The lower than anticipated ISF collection rate is
attributed mainly to natural calamities which occurred throughout the project



v -
implementation period.   Given the ISF collection level and high personnel
expenses (55% of the total annual O&M costs), the gap between NIA's O&M
expenditures (excluding the incremental O&M costs financed under the Bank loan)
and income during 1988-1992 was about 10%-30%.  This gap is expected to be closed
over the next five years under the follow-on Second IOSP (Ln. 3207-PH), which has
a target ISF collection rate of 70%.
9.        Annual  incremental  paddy  production  under  the  project  at  full
development in 1997 is estimated at about 581,000 tons. This would be 62% higher
than the appraisal estimate of 358,000 tons, due mainly to the higher irrigation
intensity (para. 8) resulting from the improved water distribution and, to a
lesser extent, water use efficiency, under the project. Yields of paddy at 4.2
and 4.4 tons per ha for irrigated wet and dry seasons, respectively, for both
future with project and without project situations, are the same as expected at
appraisal.
10.       The re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of the project is about
28%. This is an excellent ERR, although normal for successful improvement and
rehabilitation projects. The ERR is somewhat lower than the appraisal estimate
of 34% due mainly to project cost overrun, longer implementation period resulting
in delayed accrual of project benefits and a lower ratio of output to input
prices than anticipated at appraisal. These factors are not fully offset by
higher service areas and irrigation intensity. Using the paddy prices projected
at appraisal, which were 10-25% higher than the current projections, the re-
estimated ERR would be 35%.
11.       The net annual farm income in NIS has been raised by about 10% in real
terms over the pre-project level.   In 1992 constant prices, incremental net
annual incomes would be about Peso 1870 for a 1-ha farm and Peso 5,610 for a 3-ha
farm at full development, which are about 58% and 38% higher, respectively, than
the appraisal  estimates.   With a family size of six persons,  per  capita
incremental annual farm income would be US$12 for a 1-ha farm and US$37 for a 3-
ha farm.   The project has directly benefitted some 430,000 farm families, as
expected at appraisal. However, the benefits from the improved performance of
NIS achieved under the project could have been higher if adequate agricultural
support services such as farm inputs, credit, drying and storage facilities, etc.
were available. In an effort to address this inadequacy, NIA assisted several
IAs to organize themselves into multi-purpose cooperatives trained to handle some
of these activities.
Sustainability
12.       The sustainability of the project is likely.  However, it depends on
the extent to which NIA can maintain or improve the irrigation intensity,
increase ISF collection rate and/or reduce personnel expenses.   Because of
decreasing river flows and increasing siltation resulting from the deteriorating
catchment areas, and because several NIS still require major improvements and
repairs, it will be difficult for NIA to maintain the present irrigation
intensity in the long run. Since ISF collection is closely correlated with the
quality of irrigation services, the possibility of improving ISF collection will
be limited, unless satisfactory irrigation services continue to be provided. The
follow-on Second IOSP (Ln. 3207-PH) addresses this need by continuing to



- vi -
consolidate and expand the starts made under the first project, including
improved billing and monitoring procedures for ISF collection and reduction in
personnel expenses by transferring O&M responsibilities to IAs.
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.       The main lessons learned in order of importance for the project are
the following:
(a) Early identification and confirmation of co-financiers, at least
prior to loan negotiation, is important to avoid delays in
implementation which occurred in this project (PCR, paras. 5.1 and
5.2);
(b) Government should realistically assess its capacity to provide the
required counterpart-funding before starting a new project. In this
case, inadequate counterpart funding was the main reason for delayed
project completion (PCR, paras. 5.2 and 9.1);
(c) Development of water user groups and provision of training to them are
beneficial: the transfer of O&M responsibilities to IAs reduced NIA's
costs and, in several instances, system O&M and ISF collection by IAs
have been more satisfactory than in those without IA participation.
Moreover, several IAs, organized into multi-purpose cooperatives,
handled some agricultural support services (PCR, paras. 5.5, 5.18 and
5.19);
(d) Beneficiaries are more likely to pay ISF, if they actually benefit
from O&M and other NIS-related work (PCR, para. 5.21);
(e) Early agreement on procurement procedures and bidding documents is
necessary to avoid implementation delays (PCR, paras. 5.2, 5.23 and
9.1);
(f) Adequate agricultural support services are needed for realizing the
full potential of irrigation investments. If these services cannot
be effectively provided country-wide, a partial solution is to
organize farmers into suitably-trained groups, such as multipurpose
cooperatives, capable of dealing with needs of this nature (PCR,
paras. 4.3 and 5.19);
(g) The adoption of an average budget allocation on a per ha basis for
system restoration and rehabilitation resulted in some works of less
priority and viability being carried out under the project.   This
could have been avoided if a selective strategy of cost-effective
rehabilitation works had been adopted (PCR, paras. 5.9 and 8.1); and
(h) The lack of a good data base is a constraint to optimum system
operation.   Systematic monitoring and recording of canal flow data
needs attention (PCR, para. 5.16).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
(Ln. 2948-PH)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Proiect Identity
Project Name         Irrigation Operations Support Project
Loan No.             Ln. 2948-PH
RVP Unit             East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              Philippines
Sector               Agriculture
Subsector            Irrigation
2. Background
2.1       The Bank's agricultural sector strategy for the Philippines in the
early 1970s included supporting the Government's objectives of increasing cereal
production, particularly rice and corn, and strengthening the sector's supporting
institutions. Increase in cereal production was considered important to raise
rural incomes as well as to strengthen the balance of payments position.   In
support of this strategy, the Bank approved a series of irrigation development
projects from 1969 to 1980 as expansion of the irrigated area was considered a
major factor contributing to increased domestic production. Towards the late
1970s, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) recognized that, because of
budgetary constraints and decreasing opportunities and needs for large national
irrigation projects, its operations must inevitably shift from large new
construction towards the operation, maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
irrigation systems which would require less investment and yield quicker returns.
The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Study, completed in 1985 under the Bank-
financed Medium Scale Irrigation Project (Ln. 1809-PH), showed that the systems
rehabilitated under the Bank-financed National Irrigation System Improvement
Projects I&II (Ln. 1414-PH and Ln. 1526-PH) were not performing as designed or
as intended,  but were actually deteriorating.   The O&M was inadequate and
insufficient amounts of water were reaching the tailends of the systems. Based
on the above study, which identified a series of physical improvements and
institutional strengthening activities, NIA formulated a nine-year Irrigation O&M
Improvement Program, and requested the Bank to assist in financing the first
three-year phase of the program. This led to the Bank's first lending to the



- 2 -
Philippines to primarily address the O&M of irrigation systems. The Irrigation
Operations Support Project (IOSP, Ln. 2948-PH) was approved on June 2, 1988.
Subsequent related Bank-funded projects are the Second Communal Irrigation
Development Project (Ln. 3261-PH), approved in October 1990, and the recent
Second IOSP (Ln. 3607-PH), approved in May 1993.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The project was designed to:  (a) strengthen the institutional and
technical capability of NIA and cooperating Irrigators' Associations (IAs) to
improve and maintain the efficiency of existing national irrigation system (NIS)
infrastructure; and (b) improve the operating performance of the NIS through
minor rehabilitation works and through increases in the annual funding required
to improve the level of O&M service.  It was to finance the first three-year
phase of NIA's nine-year irrigation O&M improvement program incorporating the
following elements: (a) execution of minor rehabilitation works to restore and
sustain the operational capability of all NIS covering a total service area of
about 600,000 ha; (b) implementation of an expanded O&M program in all NIS; (c)
strengthening NIA's capability to provide improved O&M services through
improvements in irrigation service fee (ISF) collection process, including
cadastral surveys in all NIS service areas, and in the actual level of
collections, training for NIA staff and IAs in improved O&M, reconditioning of
equipment and procurement of limited O&M equipment, implementation of the
Irrigation Management Information System (IMIS) and provision of funds for
studies and preparation of O&M manuals; and (d) acceleration of NIA's IA
development program by organizing and training farmers in a service area of about
114,000 ha to assume responsibilities for O&M of laterals and sublaterals.
3.2       Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, were
estimated at US$60.2 million  (Peso 1,441 million) .  The Bank Loan of US$45
million was to finance all the foreign exchange costs and about 65% of local
costs.  The balance of the project costs was to be met by NIA and Government
annual budget allocations. Overall responsibility for project implementation was
with the Systems Management Department (SMD) of NIA. Its Regional Irrigation
Offices (RIOs), with close participation of the Irrigators' Associations (IAs),
were to be the principal functionaries of the project.
4. Proiect Desian and Organization
4.1       The project had a clear conceptual foundation which fitted well with
the Government's development goals of increasing food production and improving
farm incomes of the rural poor.  In order to contain NIA's dependence on the
supplemental annual budget allocations from Government, which had fluctuated
widely, the approach of the project was to balance O&M expenditure with NIA's
income from ISF to the extent possible.   In order to achieve this goal, the
project included provision for an initial level of improved O&M; essential minor
repairs required to enable the NIS to respond effectively to improved O&M; IA
organization including the gradual transfer of O&M responsibilities to them; and
institutional strengthening of NIA which included measures to improve ISF
collection, performance monitoring, O&M and farmer organization training, system



- 3 -
improvement studies and the preparation of O&M manuals, and equipment procurement
and reconditioning.
4.2       The project was prepared, pre-appraised and appraised during 1985-
1987.   The project design took full account of the constrained financial
situation within which NIA would have to operate. For this reason, a deliberate
effort was made to keep the project's scope modest.   The project  focused
primarily on introducing an initial affordable level of improved O&M and other
basic components essential for the project's effectiveness. Subsequent phases
of the program were to progressively provide support for major rehabilitation,
system modernization, continued O&M improvement and expansion of the IA network.
4.3       The proposed organization for project implementation was appropriate.
It served well in coordination at field level between NIA and IAs for system O&M.
Being essentially an O&M improvement project, it did not include specific
provision for agricultural extension, credit, etc. The general inadequacy of
prevailing agricultural support services was noted at appraisal; however, it was
intended at the time that this would be addressed through a separate nation-wide
project designed specifically for this purpose.
5. Project Implementation
5.1       Critical Variances in Project Implementation.   The Bank Loan, which
became effective on September 19, 1988, was reduced effective August 18, 1989 to
US$23.5 million as a grant facility of US$1.5 million (later increased to US$2.7
million) from USAID Grant No. 492-0385 to fund the staff training and IA
development components and an OECF (Japan) Loan No.PH-P 96 of Yen 2.5 billion
(then  equivalent  to  about  US$20.0  million)  to  finance  irrigation  system
rehabilitation work, both of which had not been envisaged earlier, became
available in April and May 1989, respectively. The move to obtain co-financing
from these sources arose from a subsequent decision by Government to seek softer
financing for these activities. The modified loan amount was reallocated in May
1991, increasing Bank financing for O&M work, in an effort to assist Government
to overcome the effects of the Middle East crisis, and again in March 1992 in
line with updated project needs. The Loan Closing Date was extended by 1 1/2
years from December 1991 to June 1993.
5.2       General.  Overall, project implementation was satisfactory although
it took 1iS years longer than originally planned.   Project implementation was
slower than expected at the outset, mainly because of: (i) delays in arranging
and firming up co-financing from OECF and USAID (para. 5.1); (ii) a change in
NIA's top management in mid-1989; and (iii) cumbersome procurement evaluation and
approval procedures. Other major problems encountered during implementation were
the serious shortage of local counterpart funds and unforeseen natural calamities
(volcanic eruption, earthquake, typhoons and floods). The former hampered the
progress of the project in 1991 and 1992, while the latter necessitated
substantial urgent additional structural repairs.
5.3       At project completion in December 1992, most of the physical targets
were completed as planned (Part III/Table 4), benefitting 165 NIS covering a



-4-
total service area of about 621,100 ha, some 3.5% higher than the SAR target.
All field works in respect of the cadastral surveys were completed. However,
there was a shortfall in mapping due to shortage of local funds.
5.4       Initial  desilting  of  canals  has  been  effective,  although  the
achievement of the SAR targets ranged between 841 and 94% due to apparent
overestimation at appraisal. The improved O&M and annual desilting have proved
effective  in  improving  water  distribution,  resulting  in  the  consequent
improvement in the ISF payment.  However, silting is still the biggest single
physical factor affecting system operation and annual removal is a major expense.
5.5       The development of IAs and the transfer of O&M responsibilities from
NIA to IAs have exceeded the SAR expectations. The performance of IAs in general
has  been  satisfactory.    Systems  operation  and  ISF  collection  with  IA
participation have been more satisfactory than in the case of NIS without IA
participation.
5.6       Although delayed,  the project components covering procurement of
equipment, improved O&M training, studies and preparation of general and specific
O&M manuals were  satisfactorily implemented.   The computerized  Irrigation
Management Information System (IMIS) was only partially implemented, due mainly
to inadequate local funds.
5.7       Due to the improved O&M during 1987-1992, the irrigation intensity
increased from 1341 to 139*. This was higher than the appraisal target of 135%.
During this period the ISF collection rate also increased (see para. 5.21).
5.8       Minor Rehabilitation Works.   This component was estimated to cost
US$20.7 million, or 34% of the total project costs, and was mainly financed by
the OECF Loan. The work was divided into two categories: structural repair of
27 diversion works and minor repairs of all 127 NIS, which were later
reclassified into 165 NISII; and (ii) initial desilting of main and lateral
canals to bring the irrigation systems to the required delivery capacity.
5.9       The SAR estimate of repair needs was based on a 1984 inventory of 64
NIS extrapolated to cover all NIS.   This estimate was adequate to cover all
essential works judged necessary. However, the adoption of an average allocation
on a per ha basis resulted in some works of less priority and viability being
carried out.
5.10      As of December 1992, minor repairs were completed for 165 NIS and
diversion works repairs for 64 NIS, or 100% and 237% of the SAR targets,
respectively. Main river diversion structure repairs were just sufficient to
assure adequate water intake.   Many of these require further improvement,
particularly in respect of silt handling. Small and isolated works were done by
1/ Using source of water and contiguous service area as criteria, the original
127 NIS covering a total service area of 600,000 ha were re-classified into
165 NIS covering a total service area of 621,100 ha.  This includes some
additional area developed under these NIS.



NIA on force account. Other repair works were carried out by local contractors
but some contract works were taken over and completed by NIA because of either
contractors' financial difficulties or NIA's inability to meet progress payments
due  to  late  or non-disbursement  of Government  funding.    The  quality  of
workmanship on structural repairs is acceptable, although the concrete finish
on some leaves much to be desired.
5.11      Initial desilting was completed mechanically for a total of 4,290 km
of canals (2,440 km main and 1,850 km laterals) and manually for 6,120 km of
tertiary canals, or 84% and 94% of the SAR targets of 5,100 km and 6,500 km,
respectively. Because of the SAR's overestimation of the total length of canals
and the substantial appreciation of Japanese Yen against the Peso (30%), there
was no financial constraint in the funding of this component. The quality of
workmanship in desilting is moderate.
5.12      Expanded O&M Program.  The improvement in water management was to be
achieved by a program to: (i) train watermasters and gatekeepers to operate
control structures to optimum effect; (ii) monitor and record river and canal
discharges regularly; and (iii) improve regular system maintenance by annual
desilting and weeding of canals and by regular servicing of control structures
and repair and maintenance of service roads, buildings, equipment and vehicles.
Moreover, the pre-project annual O&M expenditure level of Peso 375/ha
(US$18/ha)2/ was to be increased to Peso 513/ha (US$24.8/ha) by project
completion in 1991.
5.13      Items (i) and (iii) above were accomplished during the project with
reasonable effectiveness, but item (ii) has not been accomplished so far due to
the fact that the procurement of current meters required for this purpose was
done only at the very end of the project.
5.14      The improvement in the level of annual O&M costs was significant.
Expressed in 1987 prices, the annual O&M expenditures have increased
substantially by almost 28% from US$18/ha in 1987 to US$23 at project completion
in 1992, or 93% of the SAR estimate. About 60% of this annual cost was for silt
removal.
5.15      Due  to overestimation  at appraisal,  annual  desilting undertaken
amounted to about 91% and 60% of the total canal length and excavation volumes,
respectively, estimated at appraisal. In the desilting works, excavated material
was often deposited close to the edge of the canal banks. This increases the
likelihood of continued siltation and side-slope failure.
5.16      The desilting of canals was the most effective single action of the
project,  contributing to improved water distribution.   The improvement  is
demonstrated by the increases in the irrigation intensity and the ISF collection
rate during the implementation period (para. 5.22). The improvement in water
distribution is, however,  less than expected at appraisal due to:   (i) an
earthquake and a volcanic eruption on the island of Luzon and severe typhoons and
2/ Confirmed figure (SAR mentions US$16.4/ha).



-6-
drought on several islands; (ii) slow impact of training; and (iii) lack of canal
discharge monitoring.
5.17      Irricators' Associations (IAs) Development.   At appraisal,  390 IAs
comprising 96,000 farmers covering a service area of 114,000 ha, were to be
organized, registered and trained to enable them to assume responsibilities for
O&M of laterals and turnouts in their NIS. Of these, IAs covering about two-
thirds of the area were to be contracted at Stage I3/, and the balance at Stage
II.4/   A total of 407 IAs covering a service area of 109,100 ha that were
already registered and contracted at Stage I under NIA's ongoing program, were
to be advanced to Stage II.
5.18      The development of IAs and the transfer of O&M responsibilities from
NIA to IAs have exceeded the SAR expectations.   As of December 1992, NIA has
organized a total of 1,724 IAs with a membership of about 390,000 farm families
covering a service area of 546,000 ha (88% of the total service area), of which
836 IAs with about 183,000 farm families covering a service area of 274,000 ha
have been organized under the project. A total of 1,285 IAs, including 584 IAs
organized under the project (161% of the SAR target of 797 IAs), have entered
into agreements with NIA for O&M of laterals and turnouts and for system
operation and ISF collection under different contract types.
5.19      The performance of IAs was in general satisfactory.  System operation
and ISF collection with IA participation have been more satisfactory than in the
case of NIS without IA participation. However, due to inadequate agricultural
support services, IAs encountered substantial difficulties of access to farm
inputs, agricultural credit and post-harvest facilities. To solve this problem,
many IAs, with NIA assistance, have been organized into 118 multipurpose
cooperatives in order to provide credit, farm inputs, post-harvest facilities and
marketing services to farmers.
5.20      Improvements in ISF Collection Rate and Procedures.   To improve ISF
collections, NIA was to ensure improved O&M services to farmers, develop IAs to
participate in O&M works and ISF collection, provide financial inducements to
farmers for prompt ISF payment and bonuses to NIA staff for good collection
performance. The cadastral surveys and mapping were expected to provide accurate
records of service areas and individual irrigated holdings and facilitate up-
dating of ISF registers for timely ISF billing, whereas data from IMIS was to
allow effective monitoring and verification of seasonal ISF billing and enhance
3/   Stage I contract: IA contracts with NIA to maintain laterals and turnouts
within the area of its jurisdiction.   In return,  IA is paid an agreed
remuneration, currently Peso 1,100 for each cleaning (one per month) of up
to 3.5 km of earth canals or 7 km of lined canals.   On average,  this
amounts to a cost of about Peso 13,200 per year as against Peso 24,000 p.a.
if a ditchtender was employed.
4/   Stage II Contract:   IA participates in the operation of part of NIS and
undertakes collection of ISF from members, for which IA is paid an
incentive allowance.



- 7 -
NIA's ability to detect and remedy any discrepancies. With the above measures,
it was expected that the ISF billing efficiency would improve from 80% to 100%
of the benefitted areas and that the ISF collection rate would increase to 75%
by the end of the second and third years of the project, respectively.
5.21      Under the project, the billing efficiency has improved to about 100%
in most of the benefitted areas and the ISF collection rate to 61% from the pre-
project level to about 48%.   This achievement in ISF collection is quite
significant, especially in view of the fact that 1992 was affected by a fairly
widespread drought.   It is clear that the ISF collection rate is greatly
influenced by the availability of improved irrigation services: the increase in
irrigation intensity from 134% in 1987 to 139% in 1992 helped increase the ISF
collection rate. The rate was, however, lower than the appraisal target of 75%
due to natural calamities which occurred throughout the project implementation
period.
5.22      Reconditioning and Procurement of Eauipment.   The project provided
US$4.5 million for reconditioning of a number of run-down trucks and construction
equipment and US$4 million for procurement of a limited number of heavy O&M
equipment, hydrology and meteorological equipment, handtools, equipment sheds,
micro-computers and audio-visual and other classroom equipment for training and
implementation of IMIS.
5.23      During implementation, reconditioning proved to be difficult to manage
and very costly. For this reason, some new items were procured instead. All
major items programmed at appraisal were procured but arrived only in the final
year of the project. The delays were mainly because: (i) NIA was slow to submit
the initial documents for review by the Bank; (ii) there was a further delay in
making Government's procurement procedures consistent with the Bank's guidelines;
and (iii) Government's procurement processes were cumbersome. The lesson is that
it is essential to agree on procurement procedures and prepare relevant documents
early in the project cycle.   Increased devolution of responsibility to the
regions would help but NIA's central office is reluctant to relinquish control.
5.24      Cadastral Surveys and Mapping.  In order to improve the ISF billing
efficiency, the project provided funds for detailed cadastral surveys and mapping
in all NIS to replace incomplete and outdated records on service areas,
individual irrigated holdings and ISF registers.  All cadastral surveys were
completed for 165 NIS covering a service area of 621,100 ha. However, in respect
of drawing office mapping work, only 70% of the NIS with about 60% of the total
service area were covered. Map production continues and will soon be completed.
5.25      NIA Staff and IA Training.  The project provided funds for training
of about 6,800 NIA staff in techniques of improved irrigation system O&M, IA
development, financial planning and management, records management, personnel
administration and system performance monitoring and data compilation.   In
addition, about 836 IAs to be organized under the project were to be trained in
basic leadership development, system management and financial management. This
component was funded by USAID grant facility.   The training program of NIA
personnel and of IAs' Boards of Directors and members was delayed by 18 months
due to delays in firming up the USAID grant and discussions to align the training



- 8 -
activities with project objectives. This was a direct consequence of the late
entry of USAID whose participation had not been envisaged earlier.
5.26      The technical training for NIA staff was the responsibility of SMD,
whereas training of IAs was the responsibility of the Institutional Development
Department (IDD).  Some thirteen courses and one workshop involving 3,700 NIA
personnel were organized by SMD, 541 of the appraisal target of 6,800 staff.
Shortfall was due to shortage of local funds and late arrival of equipment
(computers and current meters). About 8,400 members of IAs and Board members
were trained by IDD.   In addition, about 14,300 others, particularly Farmer
Irrigator Organizers, Institutional Development Officers and Water Resources
Facilities Technicians, were also trained in aspects relevant to IAs.  Study
tours for NIA personnel were arranged for 43 persons to Korea and 58 to Thailand,
101 staff members in all. These visits to observe the techniques operating in
neighbouring countries were appreciated by the participants who considered that
their perspective on system operation and maintenance was widened by the contact.
Five  irrigation  superintendents,  two  senior  staff  members,  one  training
specialist and one engineer, were given a one-month course at Colorado State
University.
5.27      In total, the training program exceeded that foreseen at appraisal and
was satisfactorily carried out. The IA training and that part of the NIA staff
training which concentrated on close cooperation between field staff and IA, has
been effective.   It is too early to assess the training effect on water
management where improvement is a slow process and influenced by many factors.
5.28      Studies and Preparation of O&M Manuals.  The project was to finance
47 man-months of local consultancy services to assist NIA in: (i) carrying out
studies of all NIS under the project to identify modifications and improvements
needed and develop a comprehensive implementation plan; (ii) preparing individual
O&M manuals for all NIS for guidance of system-level O&M staff; and (iii)
undertaking studies to identify measures to further improve the ISF collection
system, handling of in-kind payments, and a scheme for improved irrigation water
pricing. This component was funded by the USAID grant, except for the study on
irrigation water pricing, which was financed by NIA.  Foreign consultants (26
staff-months) and local consultants (54.5 staff-months) were employed for
preparation of O&M and training manuals (including one general O&M manual, 22
samples of specific system O&M manuals, and five simple training manuals) and
three studies (improvement of ISF billing and collection, water pricing for pump
irrigation, and sediment control).
5.29      The preparation of a general O&M manual was slow at the outset due to
late approval of USAID grant, and the final version was produced only in 1991.
The manual is in 5 volumes and covers areas of system operation (including
guidance on actions required in the event of heavy floods), maintenance of system
facilities, maintenance of electro-mechanical facilities, system organization and
IMIS. It is well produced and deals competently and completely with both theory
and practice of system management. Copies of the manuals were distributed to
field engineers in 1991.



-9-
5.30      The silt extraction trials were developed in 1990 on a site just
downstream of the main intake on the Agno River Irrigation System in Region I.
The Agno River carries a high silt load due to a degraded catchment. The results
of the trials are very promising.   By using 10% of the canal discharge for
flushing, about 65% of the silt was removed by the vortex extractors and
discharged back to the river.  Under favorable conditions, about 3,000 m3 of silt
can be extracted in 24 hours.
5.31      Five simple training manuals were produced and distributed for the use
of training personnel. They covered management of inventories, records, finance,
water distribution and system operation. These manuals have been well prepared
and were successfully used to conduct training courses under the project.
5.32      Studies on improvements of ISF collection procedures and water pricing
for pump irrigation were useful. The former identified constraints affecting the
ISF collection efficiency and provided measures to minimize these constraints,
whereas the latter helped identify the minimum level of ISF needed to cover the
full O&M cost of pump irrigation. Regarding the former study, actions have been
taken to implement most of the recommended measures.
5.33      Irrigation ManaQement Information System (IMIS).  IMIS was designed
to monitor the status of system performance, O&M, and land and crop development,
and to improve ISF billing and collection. Prior to the project, a pilot IMIS
was introduced in 1987 but its implementation was limited to only 32,000 ha due
to the limitation of  funds.   The project was  to support all  Irrigation
Responsibility Centers (IRCs) to implement IMIS through staff training and
provision of 90 micro-computers. The computers were also to be used for staff
training and ISF billing and recording activities.
5.34      Some 90 micro-computers were procured, of which 84 were distributed
to 25 IRCs and the remaining six have ben allocated at Headquarters for overall
project management. Due to lack of local funds, IMIS has been introduced only
in 36 NIS covering about 160,000 ha or 26% of the total service area. The system
is useful and provides information on progress and problems of operation of NIS,
areas irrigated, crop yields and benefitted area for ISF billing. However, the
use of IMIS as a quick management tool has so far been limited and its impact on
improving ISF collection efficiency has, therefore, been nominal. In addition,
a large amount of information has to be collected and data collection is too
frequent  (weekly).   Also,  information  on  institutional  aspects  currently
collected by IDD, has not yet been covered under IMIS.   NIA has identified
improvements needed and is refining the system further.
5.35      Prolect Cost.  Actual total cost of the project amounted to US$69.1
million (Peso 1,714 million), 15% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$ 60.2
million. In local currency terms, the cost overrun amounts to 19%. The cost
overrun was mainly due to the additional O&M expenditures over the extended
implementation period.



- 10 -
6.   Results
6.1       Prolect Obiectives.   Overall, the project was successful and had a
substantial institutional impact. It largely achieved its main objectives of
strengthening the capability of NIA and IAs in system O&M and improving the
operating performance of NIS. This resulted in increased irrigation intensities,
good income benefits for farmers and an excellent ERR.
6.2       Institutional Impact.  The project had a significant positive impact
on NIA's institutional and technical capability and assisted the developemnt of
water user groups and their participation in O&M and ISF collection. Through
cadastral surveys, mapping and consequent updating of service areas, individual
irrigated holdings and ISF registers, NIA has substantially improved its ISF
billing and collection capability and its ability to monitor the process and
address problems  in a timely manner.   In areas where this work has been
completed, NIA now bills almost all irrigated farm lots compared to only about
80t billed prior to the project. In addition, the development and training of
IAs to participate in O&M and ISF collection, together with enhanced O&M, enabled
NIA to improve its ISF collection rate from about 48t to 61% under the project
(para. 5.21) . NIA's technical capability has been strengthened through training
and study tours provided to NIA staff, preparation of relevant O&M manuals, and
provision of offfice and O&M equipment.  Although the increased ISF collection
improved NIA's revenue base, net income from ISF supplemented by equipment rental
during 1988-1992 covered about 70%-90% of the annual regular O&M costs, excluding
the incremental O&M expenditures financed by the Bank loan. The gap between ISF
collection and O&M costs is expected to be closed over the next five years under
the follow-on Second IOSP (Ln. 3207-PH), which has a target ISF collection rate
of 70%.
6.3       Agricultural Production.  Annual incremental paddy production under
the project is estimated at about 581,000 tons, about 62% higher than the SAR
estimate of 358,000 tons. The higher paddy production is due to a larger service
area (3.5% higher than the SAR estimate) and higher irrigation intensity (139%
compared to the SAR estimate of 135%). Yields of paddy at 4.2 and 4.4 tons/ha,
for irrigated wet and dry seasons, respectively, for both with and without
project situations, are expected to be the same as projected at appraisal.
6.4       Economic Rate of Return.   The re-estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) of the project is about 28% (Annex 1, Table 1) . This is an excellent ERR,
normal for successful improvement and rehabilitation projects.   The ERR is
somewhat lower than the SAR estimate of 34% due mainly to project cost overrun,
longer implementation period resulting in delayed accrual of project benefits and
a lower ratio of output to input prices than anticipated at appraisal. These
factors are not fully offset by higher service areas and irrigation intensity.
Using the paddy prices projected at appraisal, which are 10-25% higher than the
current projections, the re-estimated ERR would be 35% (Annex 1, Table 2).
6.5       Income Effects.  The net annual farm income in NIS service areas has
been raised by about 10% in real terms over the pre-project level.   The net
incremental farm income, expressed in 1992 constant prices, would be about Peso
1,870 for a 1-ha farm and Peso 5,610 for a 3-ha farm at full development, about



- 11 -
58% and 38% higher, respectively, than the appraisal estimates. With a family
size of six persons, per capita incremental annual farm income would be US$12 for
a 1-ha farm and US$37 for a 3-ha farm. The project has directly benefitted some
430,000 farm families, as expected at appraisal.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1       The sustainability of the project is likely.  However, it depends on
the extent to which NIA can maintain or improve the irrigation intensity,
increase  ISF  collection  rate  or  reduce  personnel  expenses.    Because  of
decreasing river flows and increasing siltation resulting from deteriorating
catchment areas, and because many NIS still require substantial repairs, it will
be difficult for NIA to maintain the present irrigation intensity in the long-
run. Since ISF collection will largely depend on improved irrigation services,
the possibility of increasing ISF collection rate substantially is somewhat
limited, although more effective billing and monitoring procedures should help
NIA to increase the ISF collection rate to some extent. Reduction in personnel
expenses by transferring O&M responsibilities to IAs, as NIA is currently
practicing, would be the best option for NIA to achieve financial viability and
sustain a satisfactory irrigation service.   The follow-on Second Irrigation
Operations Support Project (Ln. 3207-PH), which has just commenced, supports this
effort.
8. Bank Performance
8.1       The   Bank's   performance   during   preparation,   appraisal   and
implementation was generally satisfactory. The concept and design of the project
were appropriate and have yielded good results. However, there were some design
deficiencies. The project implementation schedule of only three years was over-
optimistic and finally required 4% years  to complete.   The  institutional
strengthening and IA development component suffered serious delays since the
USAID grant, which eventually financed this work, became available only in April
1989 (PCR para. 5.1). The adoption of an average per ha allocation for system
rehabilitation resulted in some work of less priority and viability being
executed. This could have been avoided if a selective cost-effective strategy
was adopted. Although system performance improved due to the project, recurrent
siltation is a continuing costly problem. This might have been addressed to some
extent through support for suitable watershed protection and silt extraction
devices. Even though existing agricultural support and credit services were
weak, an effort to improve the situation, through measures to strengthen the
linkages   between   the   concerned   agencies   and   clearly   define   their
responsibilities, was unfortunately not built into the project.
8.2       Nine supervision missions were mounted over the implementation period
of 4% years,  including a mid-term review mission.   At least one engineer
participated in each mission and there was continuity of Bank staff; when the
task manager changed in 1991, there was an appropriate overlap. The practical
technical support given by the supervision missions was noteworthy. The Bank was
helpful in assisting NIA to obtain a concessional loan from OECF to finance the
rehabilitation work and a grant from USAID to fund the institutional



- 12 -
strengthening component. The Bank showed flexibility in reallocating the loan
proceeds to assist NIA to overcome the effects of natural calamities and the
difficult financial situation arising partially from the Middle-East crisis.  The
expanded training and support to IAs was useful. This was indicated by the large
number of IAs organized under the project and the transfer of O&M and ISF
collection responsibilities from NIA to IAs.
8.3       The most important lessons of experience for the Bank are:
(a)  Early identification and confirmation of co-financiers, at least prior
to loan negotiation, is important so that agreements could be signed
and relevant project actions started. In this case, disruption due
to the delay in signing the OECF Loan was avoided because the Bank
provided the necessary finance under its own terms until the co-
financing became effective. In contrast, the delay in signing the
USAID grant agreement, added to the discussion time to align the
training program with project objectives, delayed this component by
18 months;
(b)  A large number of IAs were organized under the project and several of
them undertook the O&M of the irrigation infrastructure serving them.
In many instances, system O&M and ISF collection by IAs has been
better than in those without IA participation. Moreover, several IAs
organized into multipurpose cooperatives handled some agricultural
support services;
(c)  Increased ISF payment indicated that beneficiaries of the project are
prepared to pay for ISF if they are able to actually benefit from
works executed. Participation of beneficiaries, through IAs, in O&M
and ISF collection enhances their sense of ownership of the system and
awareness of the services they receive, and stimulates their sense of
responsibility to pay their dues;
(d)  Adequate agricultural support services are important for realizing the
full potential of irrigation investments.   However, where they are
lacking, farmers organized into suitably trained multipurpose
cooperatives could address such needs fairly effectively; and
(e)  Adoption of an average per ha allocation for system rehabilitation
resulted in some works of less priority and viability being carried
out under the project. This would have been avoided if a selective,
cost-effective strategy had been adopted.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1       In general, the Borrower performed well with certain weaknesses in
performance being balanced by strengths in others.  The weakest area was the
continual late and inadequate release of Government's budget allocations to NIA.
This led to virtual stoppage of project actions on more than one occasion and was
the main factor contributing to the lengthening of the project implementation
period. Procurement was slow mainly due to delays in the preparation of bidding



- 13 -
documents and Government's cumbersome procurement evaluation and approval
procedures. Another weakness was the failure to regularly measure and record
canal discharges in each irrigation system.   Systematic data collection and
recording appears to be weak in the NIA organization and merits close attention.
9.2       In respect of the training component, a particularly good performance
was evident in the transfer to IAs of appropriate management and organization
techniques and in the success in promotion of a close and effective collaboration
between NIA field staff and IAs.
9.3       Also noteworthy were NIA's continued efforts to keep project actions
moving despite the Government's continually delayed releases of counterpart
funding by making priority allocations from its own resources.
9.4       The Borrower complied substantially with loan covenants except in
respect of the timely and adequate release of Government's budget allocations to
supplement NIA's resources.
9.5       The main lessons to be learned from the Borrower's performance are:
(a)  Once  the  priority  of  a project  has  been  established  and  its
implementation commenced, the provision of counterpart funding
earmarked for it should be strictly adhered to;
(b)  Early agreement on procurement procedures and bidding documents is
necessary to avoid implementation delays; and
(c)  The lack of a good data base is a constraint to optimum system
operation.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1      The relationship between the Bank and Borrower was satisfactory
throughout the project period. This was particularly important for successfully
manoeuvering the project through times of severe budget constraints and damage
caused by unforeseen natural calamities. The Bank/Borrower relationship with
OECF and USAID was also satisfactory.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      The performance of the consultants entrusted with studies and the
preparation of O&M and training manuals (paras. 5.28-5.32) was satisfactory.
There were delays in awarding local civil works contracts mainly due to the
Government's cumbersome bidding procedures, and some contracts were abandoned due
to financial difficulties of contractors arising from cost overruns, which, in
turn, were due to frequent natural calamities and late payments from NIA.



- 14 -
12.  Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The SAR provided a satisfactory implementation framework for the
Borrower. Project accounts were properly maintained. The IMIS has generated a
good data base which facilitated the preparation of the PCR.



- 15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. The Project
1.        The Government of the Philippines (GOP) embarked on massive irrigation
investment to help increase agricultural production (mainly rice) , expand the
income of small farmers, generate rural employment opportunities, and contribute
to rural poverty alleviation.
2.        IOSP I was a departure from traditional project designs that were
adopted by many government agencies in recent years.   The project was to
contribute to government objectives of an employment oriented and small farmer
focussed agricultural development.
3.        What benefited most was the improved operation and maintenance of the
systems which expanded the agricultural production, increased and stabilized farm
income and generated employment, thus making a substantial contribution to the
food self-sufficiency objective of the country.
B. Implementation Review
4.        The information outlined in Part III of the PCR is adequate and
considered accurate.   The statistics on loan disbursement, project cost and
financing, project implementation results, and other relevant facts, are
consistent with records and reports that are kept at the NIA office.
5.        The analysis contained in Part I presents a comprehensive review of
the whole project cycle from conceptual stage to preparation and appraisal to
implementation and finally to its closing date.   The project performance
strengths   and  weaknesses,   implementation  problems,   potential   project
sustainability, and performance of the lender and borrower are well explained in
the report.
6.        Project implementation was satisfactory, as discussed below, although
it took 1 1/2 years longer than originally planned:
(a) By the completion of the project, most of the physical work program
was completed as planned, benefiting 165 NIS with a service area 3.5%
higher than the SAR target.
(b)  The increased 0 & M expenditures and annual desilting have been
undertaken and been effective in improving water distribution, thus
helping improve ISF collection efficiency.
(c)  The organization of IAs and the transfer of O&M responsibilities from
NIA  to  IAs  have  been  very  useful  and  have  exceeded  the  SAR
expectations.



- 16 -
7.        The most serious constraints in project implementation were:  (i)
delays in arranging and firming up co-financing from OECF and USAID; (ii) change
in NIA's management in mid - 1989; (iii) shortage of local counterpart funds; and
(iv) unforeseen calamities (earthquake, volcanic eruption, typhoons, drought (El
Nino) and floods).
8.        The Bank's participation was splendid during project preparation and
implementation. It acted on the request for loan closing date extension by the
Government due to a tight financial situation.



- 17 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan No.          Title/purpose              Approval        Status
Loan 637-PH         Upper Pampanga River         Dec. 1969   Completed
Loan 984-PH         Upper Pampanga River         1974         Completed
Loan 1080-PH        Tarlac Irrigation System   Dec. 1974   Completed
Improvement
Loan 1227-PH        Chico River Irrigation       March 1976  Completed
Loan 1367-PH        Jalaur Irrigation            Jan. 1977   Completed
Loan 1154-PH        Magat River - Stage I        1976         Completed
Loan 1567-PH        Magat River - Stage II       May 1978    Completed
Loan 1639-PH        Magat River - Stage          Dec. 1978   Completed
II/Irrigation
Loan 1414-PH        National Irrigation          May 1977    Completed
System Improvement I
Loan 1526-PH        National Irrigation          Feb. 1978   Completed
System Improvement II
Loan 1809-PH        Medium Scale Irrigation    March 1980  Completed
Loan 2173-PH        First Communal Irrigation  June 1982   Completed
Development
Loan 3261-PH        Second Communal              Oct. 1990   Ongoing
Irrigation Development
Loan 3207-PH        Second Irrigation            May 1993    Ongoing
Operations Support



- 18 -
2.           Project Timetable
Item                      Date Planned         Date Revised          Date Actual
Preparation                    N/A                  N/A              October/November 1985
Pre-Appraisal                  N/A                  N/A              April/October 1986
Appraisal                      N/A                  N/A              October/November 1987
Negotiations                   N/A                  N/A              April 1988
Board Approval                 N/A                  N/A              June 2, 1988
Loan Signature                 N/A                  N/A              June 13, 1988
Loan Effectiveness             N/A                  N/A              September 19, 1988
Project Completion           June 1991           June 1992           December 31, 1992
Loan Closing               Dec. 31, 1991        Dec. 31, 1992        June 30, 1993
1/          Two missions were mounted in April and October 1986 due to a change of Government.
3.           Disbursements (US$ Million)
FY
1989              1990       1991        1992       1993
Appraisal Estimate                  16.4               34.4       44.7       45.0         -
Revised Estimate                     -                 9.5        18.0       23.0        23.5
Actual                               1.4               6.3        14.4       20.9        23.5
Actual as % of Appraisal             8.5               -           -          -           -
Actual as % of Revised Estimates      -                 74         80          91         100
Date of Final Disbursement       July 15, 1993
1/          Cancellation of US$21.5 million when OECF Loan and USAID grant facility became available.



- 19 -
4.          Project Implementation
Key Indicators (Dec. 1992)
SAR         Actual      Actual as
% of SAR
A. Rehabilitation Works:
- Structural repairs to diversions structures                   27           64           237
- Minor repairs of control works                               165           165          100
- Initial Desilting of Canals:
- Main Canals, Mechanical (km)                                2,900         2,440         84
(MCM)                                  1.4          1.2          86
- Lateral Canals, Mechanical (km)                             2,200         1,850         84
(MCM)                                0.5          0.47          94
-Sublateral Canals, Manual (km)                               6,500         6,120         94
(MCM)                                 0.5          0.47          94
B. Cadastral Surveys and Mapping:
No. of NIS    - Surveyed                                      165          165          100
Mapped                                        165          117          71
Service Area '' - Surveyed - (ha)                           600,000      621,100       103.5
- Mapped - (ha)                              600,000      370,000        62
C. Expanded O&M Programme:
Annual Desilting:
- Main Canals, Mechanical (km)                                1,520         735           48
(MCM)                                0.975         0.360         37
-Lateral Canals, Mechanical (km)                              2,150        2,093          97
(MCM)                                  0.235        0.250         106
- Manual (km)                                6,450        6,340          98
(MCM)                                  0.413        0.400          97
Total Desilting -      (km)                                   10,120        9,168         91
(MCM)                                 1.623         1.010         62
O&M Cost (Peso/ha) 2'                                          513          476           93
(US$/ha)                                            24.8          23           93



- 20 -
D. Total IAs Forned:
- No. of lAs                                                     -          1,724
- Service Area (ha)                                              -         546,000
E. IAs Forned under IOSP:
- No. of lAs                                                   390           836          214
- Service Area (ha)                                           114,100      274,000        240
F. IAs with NIA Contracts:
- No. of lAs                                                  797 3/        1,285         161
- Service Area (ha)                                         223,100 2'    383,300         172
G. No. of Cooperatives                                           -            118           -
H. IMIS:
- No. of NIS                                                    165         36 4'         22
- Service Area (ha)                                          600,000      160,000 4'       26
1. Service Area (ha)                                          600,000      621,000        103.5
J. Irrigation Intensity (%)                                    135 5'         139          103
K. ISF Collection Rate (%) 6'                                    75           61           81
1/         Originally 127 NIS covering a total service area of 600,000 ha. These 127 NIS were re-classified
using source of water and the contiguous service area as criteria, into 165 NIS covering a total
service area of 621,100 ha according to the cadastral surveys and mapping. This includes some
additional area developed under these NIS.
2/          In 1987 constant prices.
3/          Including 407 existing lAs covering 109,100 ha.
4/           IMIS has been implemented in 36 NIS covering a service area of about 160,000 ha.
5/          Appraisal estimate at full development in Year 10 of the project.
6/          Original appraisal project completion year in 1991.
Note:       MCM - Million cubic meters.



- 2. -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate -'              Actual 3'
P million      US$ million      P million    US$ million
Investment Costs:
Rehabilitation Works                   491.8             20.7           440.8           17.8
Equipment 2'                            195.0             8.5           222.1           9.0
Cadastral Surveys and Mapping           33.1              1.4            48.2           1.9
Studies                                  5.5              0.2            11.0           0.4
Staff Training                          10.6              0.4            11.6           0.5
IA Development                          19.0              0.8            50.4           2.0
Engineering & Administration            52.9              2.2           54.90           2.2
Sub-Total                              807.9             34.2           839.0           33.8
Recurrent Costs:
Incremental O&M Costs                  633.2             26.0           874.9          35.3
Total Cost                            1,441.1            60.2          1,713.9          69.1
Exchange Rate (Peso/US$1)                                23.9                          24.8
1/         Including physical and price contingencies.
2/         Including Peso 102.5 million for reconditioning of existing equipment.
3/         In peso terms, the total cost overrun was 19% due to the increases in the procurement of new
equipment, cadastral surveys and mapping, additional studies, and expanded IA development
programme and the increased O&M expenses (from 3 1/2 years to 4 1/2 years). In US dollar terms,
the total cost overrun was lower at 15%.



- 22 -
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Planned                  Revised                 Actual
IBRD                             45.0                     23.5                     23.5
OECF/USAID                        -                        20.31'                  19.6-
GOP/NIA                          15.2                      17.6                    26.0
Total                            60.2                      61.4                    69.1
1/         Including OECF Loan of US$17.6 million equivalent (Yen 2.5 billion) and USAID grant fund of
US$1.5 million later increased to US$2.7 million.
2/          Total disbursements amounted to US$17.6 million for OECF Loan and US$1.97 for USAID grant
fund.



- 23 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                Actual/PCR Estimate
Incremental Paddy Production               358,000                             581,000
(t/year)
No. of Farm Families                       430,000                             430,000
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate       ActuallPCR Estimate
ERR %                                      34                            28
Assumptions:
- Project Life (years)                     30                            30
- Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)        0.86                          0.83
- Farm Labor Conversion Factor           0.60                          0.60
C. Financial Impact
(Not Applicable)



- 24 -
D. Studies
Title/Purpose                      Status                       Impact of Study
1. Determination of Appropriate Irrigation    Completed in April 1993   Case study to determine ISF for
Service Fee (Pump Irrigation)                                    pump irrigation. No action has so
far been taken to implement the
study's recommendations.
2. ISF Billing and Collection Improvements   Completed in September   Identified constraints in ISF billing
1990                     and collection and recommend
measures for improvements. Some
recommendations were adopted to
improve ISF billing and collection
under the project.
3. General O&M Manual                    Completed in March        Used to some extent.
1991
4. 165 specific system O&M manuals, 22   Completed in March        Used for individual system O&M.
sample manuals                         1991
5. Five Training Manuals                 Completed in 1990/1991    Used as manual to conduct training
in and to undertake irrigation system
operation, inventory and records
management, financial management,
water management and IMIS under
the project.
6. Sediment Control at Agno River System    Preliminary findings   Trials on silt extraction using the silt
completed in December    excluder. Preliminary findings
1992.                   showed effective silt extraction in the
main intake of the Agno River
System.



- 25 -
7. Status of Covenants
Loan             Subject               Action             Due          Status
Agreement                              Required/Taken
Sch. 5 (1)      Incentive grants for         -             06/30/88    In
NIA staff to be                                       compliance.
revised.
Sch. 5 (3)       NIA/IA responsibility       -                -        On-going.
sharing at IA stage 2
level to be through
two separate
contracts.
Section 3.01 (a)  Government to        Bank's letters to      -        In
supplement NIA's      DOF, DBM,                       compliance
resources as required   DPWH & NIA                    although
to ensure agreed      3/26/91 &                       delayed and
O&M level.            6/30/92.                        inadequate.
Sch. 5 (4)       Detailed work and           -            June 30 of   In
funding program for                      preceding    compliance.
each year to be                          year.
submitted for Bank
review by June 30 of
preceding year.
Section 4.01     Project audit reports        -           June 30 of   In
for each fiscal year to                 following    compliance
be furnished to the                      year.        with some
Bank.                                                 delay.



- 26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
FY             LENP              LENA               LENN             SPN          PCR    Total
1985            35.4                                                                       35.4
1986            42.1                                 -                -                    42.1
1987            25.1               -                 -                -                    25.6
1988            20.7              49.9              6.3              1.2                   78.1
1989            -                  -                 -              20.9                   20.9
1990            -                  -                 -               13.3                  13.3
1991            -                  -                 -              28.1                   28.1
1992            -                  -                 -               4.8                   4.8
1993            -                  -                 -               2.8 1'       8.1      10.9
1994            -                  -                 -                 -          3.7      3.7
Total          123.8              49.9              6.3              71.1         11.8    262.9
LENP        Activities prior to appraisal.
LENA        Activities related to appraisal.
LENN        Negotiation activities.
SPN         Supervision time.
1/          Supervision was done concurrently with preparation of follow-up project.



B. Missions
Stage of             Date        Sent By      No of      Man-days       Specialization "'     Performance Rating "      Trend A'       Type of
Project Cycle       Mon/Yr                   Persons                                                                                  Problems F
in field
A      B     C      D
Preparation"        10-11/85      IBRD         7           110           2A,EB,C,F,E
Pre-Appraisal'      4, 10/86                    5           25            B,C,F,2E
Appraisal           10-11/87                    5          130             2B,2E,F
Supervision
1                    6/88                      1            6                 E               I      I     I   ,1I         I
11                   11/88                     1            17                E               I      I     I      I        I
]II                  2/89                      2           28                B,E              I      I     I      I        I              F
IV                  10-11/89                   3           39               B,2E              I      1     2     2         2             PF
V                    8-9/90                    4           80              A,D,2E             I      1     2     2         2              P
VI                   2/92                      2            12               2E               3      1     2     2         2             PF
VIl                  11/91                     3            9               B,2E             3       1     2     2         2              F
Vill                 4/92                       1           9                 E              2       1     2     2         2              F
IX                   12/92                      1           3                 E            .1I       I     I     I         I
1/ Including participation from FAO/CP.
2/ Including two follow-up missions in April 1986 and October 1986.
3/ A - Agriculture; B - Economics; C - Institution; D - Socio-Economics; E - Engineering; F - Finance.
4/ Performance Rating: A = availability of funds; B = project management; C = development impact;
D = overall status.
I = problem= free or minor problems;
2 = moderate problems;
3 = major problems
5/ Trend: I = improving; 2 = stationary; 3 = deteriorating.
6/ Type of problems: F = Financial; T = Technical; P = Procurement



- 28 -
Project Completion Report                                Annex 1
PHILIPPINES                                         Table I
Irrigation Operation Support Project
Ln 2948-PH
Economic Analysis (Pesos Million, 1992 Constant Values)
FY               Project           Inc. 0 & M         WP                WOP              Net
Cost               Cost           Benefits           Benefits         Benefits
(a)               (b)
1988               80.7              63.8             6,604.4           6,604.4           -144.5
1989              171.9             82.8              8,381.8           8,306.3           -178.5
1990              264.5             251.4             6,755.7           6,629.3           -389.5
1991              216.0             244.1             8,552.9           8,324.2           -231.4
1992              118.5             280.6             7,133.8           6,583.9            150.8
1993               -                280.6             6,326.6           5,678.2            367.9
1994               -                280.6             6,543.1           5,829.8            432.7
1995              15.6              208.6             6,810.1           6,034.8            479.2
1996              65.9              208.6             6,569.2           5,786.3            436.5
1997              97.0              208.6             6,647.5           5,807.4            462.5
1998               -                208.6             6,471.1           5,651.3            539.2
2999              117.7             208.6             6,295.1           5,495.6            401.3
2000               14.0             208.6             6,061.0            5,288.4           478.0
2001              59.3              208.6             5,986.9            5,222.9           424.2
2002              87.3              208.6             5,918.0            5,162.0           388.1
2003               -                208.6             5,848.6            5,100.7           467.3
2004               -                208.6             5,774.9            5,035.5           458.8
2005               12.5             208.6             5,677.5            4,949.5           435.0
2006              170.4             280.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            277.1
2007              77.6              208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            369.9
2008               -                208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            447.5
2009               -                208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            447.5
2010               10.9             208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            436.6
2011              46.1              208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            401.4
2012              67.9              208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            379.6
2013              117.7             208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            329.8
2014               -                208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            447.5
2015               9.4              208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            438.1
2016              39.5              208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            408.0
2017              58.2              208.6             5,677.5           4,949.5            389.3
Economic Rate of Retumn = 27.97%
(a)           Restoration Works at P563/ha WP and P373/ha WOP (economic costs).
(b)           Incremental O&M at P491/ha, adjusted by CF of 0.92 (80% skilled and 20% unskilled labor).



- 29 -
Project Completion Report                                        Annex I
PHILIPPNES                                                  Table 2
Irrigation Operation Support Project
Ln 2948-PH
Economk Analysis (Pesos MIllion, 1992 Constant Values)
(At SAR Rice Price Projections)
FY                Project            Inc. O & M              WP                   WOP                   Net
Cost               Cost                  Benefits             Benefits           Benefits
(a)                 (b)
1988                  80.7                63.8                3,698.4              3,698.4             -144.5
1989                171.9                 82.8                4,597.4              4,553.2             -209.8
1990                264.5                251.4                5,537.5              5,431.4             -409.8
1991                216.0                244.1                6,489.5              6,310.9             -281.5
1992                118.5                280.6                7,498.0              6,912.9              177.0
1993                  -                  280.6                8,031.6              7,216.9              534.2
1994                  -                  280.6                8,704.5              7,769.9              654.0
1995                 15.6                208.6                9,016.5              8,006.4              714.0
1996                 65.9                208.6                8,925.2              7,881.8              696.9
1997                 97.0                208.6                9,210.2              8,073.8              758.9
1998                 -                   208.6                9,194.0              8,059.3              854.1
2999                 117.7               208.6                9,178.2              8,045.3              734.7
2000                 14.0                208.6                9,157.7              8,027.0              836.1
2001                 59.3                208.6                9,163.7              8,032.3              791.5
2002                 87.3                208.6                9,174.8              8,042.2              764.7
2003                  -                  208.6                9,185.5              8,051.7              853.2
2004                  -                  208.6                9,191.9              8,057.4              853.9
2005                 12.5                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              842.5
2006                 170.4               280.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              684.6
2007                 77.6                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              777.4
2008                  -                  208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              855.0
2009                  -                  208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              855.0
2010                 10.9                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              844.1
2011                 46.1                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8               808.9
2012                 67.9                208.6                9,201 3              8,065.8              787.1
2013                 117.7               208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              737.3
2014                  -                  208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              855.0
2015                  9.4                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8              845.6
2016                 39.5                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8               815.5
2017                 58.2                208.6                9,201.3              8,065.8               796.8
Economic Rate of Return = 34.9%
(a)             Restoration Works at P563/ha WP and P373/ha WOP (economic costs).
(b)             Incremental O&M at P491/ha, adjusted by CF of 0.92 (80% skilled and 20% unskilled labor).






NAi,A IN RIOAIkON    .11
PHILIPPINES
IRRIGATION OPERATIONS SUPPORT PROJECT
REGIONAL LOCATION OF NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS
78X'  ut sGawz             ~~~~~S Gut /?                                                                                                                                   x
9r0r                           Chto AAOI   Eil                                                                               Nalionol Irr.goflon Systems
0,                          ~~~~~~~~~Rollrood,
9901094(              ~~~Sea                                                                                         Rood,
REGION "                                                                      tRo
Isoocfl.                                            RegPon BohnIorpes
i iuw uA                            t; |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  _~~-                         Internolionol Boondo,ini
94~~~~~~9~S                                      
}7 (KO Cl _11                                                i =              '   +tl . t 9
9(04094M            KEC0N                                 . .4
REGION '111
EGON.  ,.
* c0.0                                                                                                l9'l n   ; * A,KlOTR 
14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hW
0E09094~S  F_n 1(0909 
REGION                                                                                  VI I  /
, Au  nS                                     I   u
i I lAJnO   '                                  ''+A'           1,120
s \ -^AC   '                                      l           t      XPACiFIC
9  Ir^- w0 ~9,9              sOCEAN                                                                                                   xi
. 'r -'C * 
RIND      OEAR- N Vl24                                                                                                                                    'u X>
7w~~~~~W^~~C                                                                   jf'                                                                                         V iy; 17  \ '  



