Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21397-KE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9 MILLION
(US$ 15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 6, 2001
AFTI2
Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Country Department 5
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 6, 2001)
Currency UJnit   = Kenya Shilling (KES)
KES I          = US$0.013
US$1           = KES 79.02
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      African Development Bank
AO        Authorized Officer
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
BP        Bank Procedures
C&AG    Controller and Auditor-General
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDF       Comprehensive Development Frarnework
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CSRP      Civil Service Reform Programme
DFID      Department for International Development
DPM       Directorate of Personnel Management
EU        European Union
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GOK       Government of Kenya
GP        Good Practices
GPN       General Procurement Notice
HFS       High Fliers' Scheme
IAPSO    Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP
IC        Individual Consultants
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICPAK    Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya
IDA       International Development Association
IDCRP    Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project
IDF       Institutional Development Fund
IFMIS    Integrated Financial Management Information System
IP        Implementation Progress
IPPD      Integrated Payroll and Personnel Data Base
IPRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IT        Information Technology
KACA    Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority
KES       Kenya Shillings
KIA       Kenya Institutite of Administration
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LCS       Least-Cost Selection
LSRCC    Legal Sector Reform Coordinating Committee
LSRP      Legal Sector Reform Program
MOFP    Ministry of Finance and Planning



MTPBP   Medium-Term Pay and Benefits Policy
MTEF    Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NAO       National Audit Office
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
OD        Operational Directive
OMS       Operational Manual Statement
OP        Operational Policy
OPN       Operations Policy Note
OAG       Office of the Attorney General
PBP       Pay and Benefits Policy
PCD       Project Concept Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PE:OM    Pay and Emoluments: Operations and Maintenance
PMR       Project Management Reports
PPD       Public Procurement Directorate
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PS        Permanent Secretary
PS/SC     Permanent Secretary, Secretary to the Cabinet
PSC       Public Service Commission
PSD       Public Sector Development
PSM-TAP Public Sector Reform-Technical Assistance Project
PSRCU    Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit
QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
RFP       Request for Proposal
SA        Special Account
SASES    Selected Accelerated Salary Enhancement Scheme
SEPS      Senior Executive and Professional Service
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
SOE       Statement of Expenditure
SWG       Sectoral Working Group
TA        Technical Assistance
TOR       Terms of Reference
TTL       Task Team Leader
UK        United Kingdom
UNDB    United Nations Development Business
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
VERS      Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme
Vice President     Callisto Madavo
Country Director     Harold Wackman
Sector Manager      Brian Levy
Task Team Leader       Harry Garnett






KENYA
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
CONTENTS
A.       Project Development Objective ............................................................3
1.    Project Development Objective .........................................................3
2.   Key Performance Indicators .........................................................3
B.       Strategic Context ...........................................................5
1.    Sector Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ..................................6
2.    Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ...............                     ..........................................7
3.    Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices .................................................9
C.      Project Description Scmmary ...........................................................9
1.   Project components ........................................................9
2.   Key Policy and Institutional Reforms to be Sought .......................1.................................   1
3.   Benefits and Target Population ........................................................ 12
4.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ...................                   ..................................... 12
5.   Financial Management ........................................................                                         13
6.   Procurement ........................................................ 14
D.       Project Rationale ...........................................................                                        15
1.   Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ........................................................  15
2.   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies ..............                 ............... 15
3.   Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design ........................................................  16
4.   Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ...............................                ......................... 17
5.    Value Added of Bank Support in this Project ...............                ..................................I . .... 18
E                                          ..................  . Summary Project Analysis.18
1. Economic ......................                                                                                          18
2. Financial ......................                                                                                         19
3. Technical ...................... 19
. Institutional ......................                                                                                      19
5. Environmental ...................... 20
6. Social ...................... 21
7. Safeguard Policies ......................                                                                               21
8. Business Policies ...................... 21
F.   Sustainability and Risks ...................... 21
1. Sustainability ...................... 21
2. Critical Risks ......................                                                                                    22
3. Possible Controversial Aspects ...................... 23
G.  Main Loan Conditions ......................                                                                               23
1. Effectiveness Conditions ......................                                                                         23
H.  Readiness for Implementation ......................                                                                       24
1. Compliance with Bank Policies .24
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                               ..25
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                            ..30
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                             ..42
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                               ..43



Annex 5a: Financial Summary ..................................................                                                                             44
Annex 5b: Financial Assessment ..................................................                                                                           45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ..................................................                                                      52
Table A:  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..................                                         ................................ 54
Table Al:  Consultants Selection Arrangements .................................................. 55
Table B:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ..................................................   56
Table C: Allocation  of Credit Proceeds ............................................................. 57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule ..................................................                                                                    58
Annex 8: Documents in Project File ..................................................                                                                       59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits ..................................................                                                                 60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ..................................................                                                                           62
Annex  11:  Letter of Sector Policy  from   the Government of Kenya ..................................................  64
Annex 12: Lessons Learned From the Predecessor Institutional Development and Civil Service
Reform Project ..................................................                                                                                          70
MAP(S)
IBRD 26150R



KENYA
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTI2
Date: July 6, 2001                         Team Leader: Harry Garnett
Country Manager/Director: Harold Wackman  Sector Manager/Director: Brian Levy
Project ID: P066490                        Sector: Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: TA                     Theme(s): Capacity Building for Public Service Reform
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   N
i 1. 
IDA         GOK        Total   Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %     US$m    US$m            Date          Date
Loan/        15.0  73%        5.5       20.5       2002          2004      The Republic of
Credit                              .                                     Kenya
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [x ] Credit      [] Grant    [] Guarantee       [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 15.0 million
Proposed terms:  Standard Credit          [  ] Multicurrency  [    3 Single currency
Grace period (years):    10
Years to maturity:       40
Commitment fee:          0.5%
Service charge:          0.75%
$ope                        .             _ _           1-            Fordo         T-T
Government                                               5.5               -             5.5
IDA                                                      5.2               9.8          15.0-
Total:                                                  10.7               9.8         20.5
Borrower: The Republic of Kenya
Responsible agency(ies): Directorate of Personnel Management



-2 -
Estimated disbursements TBank FY/US$M):
Annual                                           5.0        7.3         2.7
Cumulative                                        5.0       12.3        15.0
Project implementation period: 2002-2004
Expected effectiveness date: October 31, 2001   Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
Implementing agency: Directorate of Personnel Management
Contact person: Mr. James E.O. Ongwae, Permanent Secretary, Directorate of Personnel Management
Address: Office of the President, DPM, Harambee House, Nairobi
Tel: (254-2) 230653   Fax: (254-2) 210192            E-mail: agpsd@africaonline.co.ke



- 3 -
A.   Project Development Objective
1.    Project Development Objective
The principal objective of the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Credit
(PSM-TAP) is to improve governance by putting in place systems and human resources
capacity that are the necessary conditions for achieving greater fiduciary responsibility and
reducing corruption in the public service.
1. The project focuses on improving accountability by introducing more effective
institutions and systems of accountability, and building the capacity to implement those
systems. Project activities include:
* implementing the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
* strengthening government finance and accounting
* improving internal auditing
* strengthening the Auditor-General's Department
* reforming and capacity development in procurement
As a result of these systems reforms and the capacity building, a revived Kenya Anti-
corruption Authority (KACA), the Auditor General and the Public Accounts Committee will
find it easier to track the money in their investigations and to hold responsible parties
accountable.
2. By helping to link pay to performance, and, over time, laying the basis for improving
pay in a sustainable way, and making recruitment and advancement more transparent, the
project will help to limit patronage and reduce the incentives and opportunities for rent-
seeking.
3. The project is also "keeping a foot in the door" for legal and judicial reform, facilitating
a continuing dialogue with the Chief Justice and the Attorney-General.
4. Finally, the project will continue to support the Change Team. However, the project
will also take steps to create a much larger cadre of reformers, paid for by the national
budget, through the creation of a senior executive and professionals service.
This three-year project supports the second phase of a long term reform process. It will
build upon progress made under the recently completed Institutional Development and Civil
Service Reform Project.
2.    Key Performance Indicators
These indicators have been designed to be realistic and within the manageable interest of the
project, as well as relevant measures of the achievement of the development objective.



-4 -
Public Service reform
*  Studies to be completed on services to be privatized, contracted out or
commercialized and sound exit plans prepared following completion of these
studies by December, 2003.
*  Size of civil service reduced in accordance with such exit plans by June 2004.
*  Develop and begin to implement an affordable pay and benefits policy within the
Medium Term Expenditure Framework by June 2004.
* Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database to be fully operational in all ministries
and Teaching Service by 2004.
Public Financial Management
*  Core staff in ministries/departments trained to operate the MTEF in respective
ministerial budget processes by 2004.
*  MTEF computer information system linked to IPPD and Integrated Financial
Management Information System by 2004.
*  75% of professional positions in Controller and Auditor General's (C&AG) office
filled with staff trained to post-graduate level or a minimum of part lI of CPA (K)
professional standards by 2004.
*  60% of professional accounting positions (Chief Accountant and above) across
Government trained to professional standards by 2004.
* Develop Internal Audit Manual by June 2003.
* 30% of Internal Audit Staff to be trained on the application of Computer Assisted
Audit Techniques (CAATs) by December 2004.
Procurement Reform
*  Operations of PPD  enhanced through the completion of procurement of
equipment financed by the project by December 2002.
*  Procurement capacity of public procurement entities assessed and appropriate
training programs developed by June 2002 and training programs implemented by
June 2003.
*  Public entities to have established tender committees as per the procurement
regulations by June 2003.
*  Procurement Regulations applied by all public entities by June 2002.
*  Public Procurement Complaints, Review and Appeals Board established and
operational by December 2001.
Legal Sector Reform
* Pilot program on case management established; incidence of established number
of lost files in pilot program reduced by 60% by December 2004.



-D5-
*  Average time taken from filing to disposal of commercial cases reduced from 5
years in 2000 to 2 years in the pilot program.
*  Revised chapters of the Laws of Kenya (those that affect public management)
available on CD-ROM and in print by December 2004.
*  Pilot program on Recording of Court Proceedings completed by December 2004
and ready for replication throughout the country.
Project Coordination and Change Management
*  Quarterly project reports on progress, plans, issues, finance and accounting, and
procurement are submitted on time and of high quality from 2001 to end of
project.
*  70% of contracts signed on time, in accordance with procurement plans for whole
of 2003 to end of project.
B.   Strategic Context
Public sector reform is not new to Kenya. The country first embarked on administrative
reformn following independence in 1963. The first wave of reform efforts focused on
"Kenyanization" of staff of the inherited colonial administrative system. Kenyanization
involved "crash" training programs for middle and senior-level managers. The Kenya
Institute of Administration (KIA) played a major role in the delivery of the training
activities. The subsequent waves of administrative reform in the 1970s and 1980s focused
on structural reorganization, improvement of pay and conditions of service, adoption of
improved management systems and procedures, and public expenditure management. Two
of these reform efforts have had long lasting influence on the evolution of public sector
management in the country. First, the 1971 Ndegwa Reform Commission's recommendation
that allowed civil servants to also participate in business (without adequate enforcement of
rules guarding against conflict of interest). This is now commonly cited as a major cause of
corruption in the public service. Second, the 1982 Commission on Public Expenditure
Management exposed waste and mismanagement that were the consequences of lax
expenditure control systems and procedures.
In the 1990s two key reform initiatives were launched - one on institutional development
and civil service reform and the other on parastatal reform and privatization. Both efforts
were supported by World Bank credits: Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform
Project for US$ 25 million, approved in 1994 (Credit 2671-KE); and Parastatal Reform and
Privatization Project for US$ 23 million, approved in 1992 (Credit 2440-KE). Both efforts
achieved only modest results.
As part of the Institutional and Civil Service Reform Project, Government produced a
strategy document, Civil Service Reform Medium Term Strategy 1998-2001 (CSRP 11), in
April 1998. The distinguishing feature of the strategy is that it situated civil service reform
within a broader and comprehensive public sector reform agenda that would include a
medium term expenditure framework, public financial management, Teachers' Service
reform, parastatal reform and privatization, and local government reform.



- 6 -
In July 1999, the Government announced a major public sector reform initiative, with
particular emphasis on addressing declining productivity in the civil service. The President
appointed six technocrats drawn from the country's parastatal and private sectors and
international organizations to leadership positions in the civil service. The position of
Permanent Secretaries as accounting officers of their respective ministries was clarified.
While they would work closely with ministers who are the political heads of ministries and
departments, as accounting officers they would be directly responsible for the management
of the resources of their respective ministries and departments to:
(i) the President through the Head of the Public Service; and
(ii) Parliament through the established parliamentary committees that are responsible
for holding the Executive accountable.
The full dimensions of the public sector reforn that was announced in July 1999 emerged at
two successive workshops in October, 1999 and February, 2000 and a Consultative Forum
in March 2000.
A new "Strategic Plan for Public Sector Reform" was prepared by Government in January,
2000 as the background paper for the workshop of February, 2000. The Plan was updated in
November, 2000. The strategic plan shows that Government is determined to take a holistic
view of public sector reform. It spells out a vision of reform as well as the purpose and
goals of the reform effort. The following four main elements of public sector reform are
highlighted in the strategic plan:
* Public Sector Management Reform
* Legal Sector and Judicial Reform
* Enhanced Integrity and Accountability
* Interaction with Civil Society.
1.    Sector Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Report No. IDA/R98-137
Date of Discussion: September 24, 1998.
The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy notes (para ii) that, "In Kenya, poor
governance has systematically undermined the independence, capacity and accountability of
the public sector. This has resulted in the poor management of public resources, corruption,
the weakened rule of law, and uneven implementation of policy reforms, which are all
inimical to economic growth, equity and sustained development."
Upon approval of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Bank expected (para 31) that
reforms "will involve reducing the number and functions of ministries, commercialization,
divestiture or closure of non-core functions, rationalizing staffing levels in the public sector,
public sector pay reforms, aggressive and transparent privatization of major parastatal firms,
and establishing appropriate regulatory structures." At about the same time, Government



- 7 -
was expressing interest in follow-on projects to be supported by the Bank in respect of both
civil service reform and privatization of selected public enterprises.
This project will contribute to the Bank's country assistance goal for public sector
management by addressing:
* public sector restructuring (component 1);
* public expenditure management (component 2); and
* strengthening accountability (components 2, and 3).
A new CAS covering the first three years of this project is under preparation.
2.    Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
An interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (IPRSP [Report No. IDA/SecM2000-399])
was discussed by the Board on August 1, 2000. The IPRSP for 2000-2003 has five basic
components and policy objectives:
* to facilitate sustained economic growth
* to improve governance and security
* to increase the ability of the poor to raise their incomes
* to improve the quality of life of the poor
* to improve equity and participation
The IPRSP noted that the country's macroeconomic strategy aims at progressively
increasing real per capita GDP growth, while keeping inflation below five percent, gradually
increasing foreign exchange reserves, and maintaining the current account deficits at
sustainable levels.
Government made good governance a cornerstone of the IPRSP, with a particular focus on
the overall public sector reform program. Government is also committed to taking the steps
necessary to improve accountability and combat corruption. These include increasing the
transparency of procurement procedures and increasing the effectiveness of accounting and
auditing procedures through the introduction of an Integrated Financial Management
Information System (IFMIS). There is currently a much better focus in the Ministry on the
supervision of public financial management than in the past. Furthermore, two bills aimed
at enhancing integrity and honesty in the public service are scheduled for presentation to
Parliament in July 2001: the Public Service Code of Conduct and Ethics Bill, 2001, and the
Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Bill, 2001. A constitutional amendment to give the
Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority (KACA) prosecutorial powers and effective independence
will also be presented. In addition, the reform program seeks to strengthen the Office of the
Controller and Auditor General by rationalizing its functions and increasing its capacity.
Public sector reform has been spear-headed over the last two years by the "Change Team," a
small group of senior technocrats engaged on contract from the private sector and
international organizations. Some members of the Team have returned recently to their



- 8 -
parent organizations, but Government remains committed to reforming the public service.
This is clear from the Letter of Sectoral Policy in Annex 11, which was signed by the
Ministry of Finance. In addition, the new Head of Public Service has prepared a Cabinet
Paper on "A Strategy for Performance Improvement in the Public Service." This paper
embraces several key reform measures including rationalization, pay reform, results-
oriented management, service charters, improving the management of the recurrent budget,
and the improvements in public financial management to be supported by PSM-TAP. Three
members of the current Change Team supported by the Bank are in the Ministry of Finance,
where most of the accountability improvements supported by PSM-TAP will be centered.
In addition, the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry is a member of the Change Team
supported by a Trust Fund. He has been responsible for this year's budget, and has led the
preparation of the June 2001 PRSP, both of which are regarded by many as improvements
over earlier versions.
Reform of the public administration sector figures as one of the priorities in the new PRSP.
Objectives include a leaner, efficient and more productive public sector, strengthening the
audit of public finances, improved budgeting and public finance, and prompt accounting of
Government finances. PSM-TAP will support the achievement of all of these objectives.
The Government has undertaken a functional rationalization of ministries, departments and
other public agencies in accordance with national and sectoral objectives. The expected
staff reduction as a result of ministerial rationalization is 32,000 civil servants over the
period 2000 to 2003 (This number includes both retrenchment and natural attrition). To
date, over 23,000 have been retrenched. While Government intends to restore merit-based
recruitment and promotion of public servants and to set service delivery targets against
which good or poor performance will be linked for rewards and sanctions respectively,
Government also intends to establish and implement a comprehensive, viable and
motivating pay and benefits policy for its staff. Capacity building and training of public
servants will be undertaken through a medium to long-term programme to re-equip the
public service with knowledge and skills to fulfill its new mandates.
In a bid to improve law and order and public safety, the government will undertake a
number of reform actions that should lead to increased transparency in and accessibility to
dispensing justice. This will include the finalization of the on-going comprehensive review
of the legal sector, the Office of the Attorney-General, the Judiciary and legal education
institutions. The scope of court divisions will be expanded to include well functioning civil,
commercial and family divisions in key towns throughout the country. Further, Govermment
will undertake legal review of those enabling acts identified during the Ministerial
Rationalization Exercise as adversely affecting efficient delivery of public services. The
legal review process is therefore expected to help move the rationalization process forward.
A number of ministries have already initiated preliminary work towards reviewing their
enabling acts.



- 9 -
3.    Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices
The project focuses on those areas of Government's overall strategy identified in
Government's Strategic Plan for Public Sector Reform and in the IPRSP. Refined through
consultative processes, these priorities have been identified as:
* Reform of the Public Service
* Public Financial Management, including consolidation of the MTEF process
* Legal Sector Reform
* Enhancing Integrity and Accountability
By undertaking to support the above priorities, as defined by government, the Bank will be
determining strategically to support some activities under the project in full (such as the
public service reform); to share the costs of some aspects with other donors (such as the
public financial management component); and in some cases not to support aspects of the
reform process such as support to local government. The Bank will also support the
development of a decentralization and intergovernmental relations strategy and policy
framework. (A separate Technical Assistance Project to support local government reform is
tentatively scheduled for FY02).
The components of the Bank project follow the Africa Region's public sector reform
strategy by being selective and ensuring a strong technical focus on public sector
management as part of an overall development agenda.
C.   Project Description Summary
1.    Project components
Component            Sector         Indiative  % of Total  Bank-    % of
Costs              fancing   Bank-
__________ ____    ____ _________ (US"M             (US$M)   11nanclng
Public Service Reform  Civil Service Reform  8.4      41%       6.3       42%
Public Financial   Public Financial        7.0        34%       5.1       34%
Management         Management
Legal Sector Reformn  Judicial Reform      1.7        8%         1.2      8%
PSR Coordinating Unit Other Public Sector  3.4        17%       2.4       16%
,Management            2                 I  1
Tota            20.5      100%       15.0     100%.



- 10-
Component 1: Public Service Reform (US$ 8.4 million)'
Objective: To create a leaner and highly motivated public service, better equipped to deliver
services to the public.
The Project will support: the preparation of exit plans for functions to be abolished,
privatized or contracted out; the establishment of benchmarks against which to measure
service delivery and public service performance; the development and implementation of
service delivery surveys to monitor and report on performance; the implementation of an
Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database system (IPPD) in the Civil Service and the
Teachers' Service; the development of a comprehensive performance based pay scheme; the
preparation and initial implementation of plans to improve pay and benefits; the preparation
of options for a senior executive and professional service, and a related High Flyers'
Scheme; the development of a contributory pension scheme; the preparation of medical
insurance options; a training needs assessment; and, the development of a national policy
framework and strategy on information technology.
Component 2: Public Financial Management (US$ 7.0 million)2
Objective: To achieve more effective and efficient utilization of public resources with
enhanced accountability and transparency and to improve transparency and efficiency in
the procurement of goods and services.
The Project will support: the implementation in full of the Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF); the linking of MTEF to IPPD and the Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS); the development and implementation of a
comprehensive budget management system encompassing the Treasury, all line ministries
and districts; the adoption of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and
adherence to International Accounting Standards (IAS) and value-for-money principles;
capacity building and training in the offices of the Accountant General and the Controller &
Auditor General (to be renamed the National Audit Office, NAO) and the Department of
Internal Audit; and the development of Computer-Aided Auditing (CAA) in the NAO.
The Project will support: the creation and staffing of a Public Procurement Directorate; the
enactment of a new public procurement law; the development of measures to help enforce
public procurement regulations; and, the preparation of enabling instruments to legalize the
appointment and operationalization of the Procurement Appeals Board.
The project directly supports recommendations contained in the Kenya Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA). The CFAA is pending clearance from Government,
but addresses government financial planning and budgeting, accounting and financial
reporting, internal control, records management and auditing.
' Includes PPF and Government contributions.
2 Includes PPF and Government contributions.



- 11 -
Component 3: Legal Sector Reform (US$ 1.7 million)3
Objective: To establish a foundation for the achievement of timely, accessible, and
responsive legal and judicial systems.
The project will support: the establishment of an improved records management system for
the registration and retrieval of case documents; the development and application of a better
system for recording court proceedings; the development of an Improved Court
Management system; the revision of all chapters of the Laws of Kenya and making the same
available in CD-Roms; assistance to the Legal Sector Reform Secretariat and the regular
collection and dissemination of information relating to the reforms in the legal sector.
Component 4: Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (US$ 3.4 million)4
Objective. To provide an efficient and effective coordinating body and process that support
the reform programme across the Public Sector.
The Project will support the establishment and operation of a Public Sector Reform
Coordinating Unit (PSRCU) in the Directorate of Personnel Management in the Office of
the President. This support will comprise: the means to continue engaging for one year key
members of the Change Team who are leading Kenya's broader public sector reform
exercise; and, the means to hire consultants for the duration of the Project to head the
PSRCU and to strengthen it through the provision of expertise in public procurement,
financial management, monitoring and evaluation, as well as the development and
implementation of an Information, Education and Communications strategy and action plan.
2.    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms to be Sought
The project itself is seeking to support institutional reforms through restructuring the public
service, providing better incentives to staff, and introducing performance management.
These reforms are aiming to create a service oriented public service under which the very
behavior of public servants will be transformed. That said, certain policy reforms will need
to be implemented for the project to achieve its objectives. These reforms are outlined in
the assumptions column of the project design summary in Annex 1: financial and accounting
regulations approved by Parliament, alternative dispute and small claims mechanisms
agreed to by Parliament, and the passage of the Procurement Law.
3Includes Government contributions.
4 Includes PPF and Government contributions.



- 12 -
3.    Benefits and Target Population
The program is targeted at different levels of central government which it intends to
reorganize, strengthen and streamline. It will address the needs and expectations of public
sector customers and society by improving both the quantity and quality of public services,
while increasing the standards of transparency and supporting the fight against corruption.
The project responds to the direct request for donor assistance.  The benefits of the
programme are:
*  An improved quality of life of the Kenyan people through the cost effective
provision of public services;
*  A  reduction in poverty through better targeting of services and effective
implementation of policies that will promote transparency and professionalism;
*  Public servants in Ministries/Departments motivated to perform well based on
meritocracy, equity and gradually increasing salaries and benefits;
*  Public servants who can be held accountable for their decisions and actions;
*  Policy decision making and service provision that is transparent and demand-driven;
4.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The implementation structure and responsibilities will be as follows:
Cabinet Subcommittee: A Cabinet Subcommittee will oversee the reform process. The
Government will provide regular briefings to Parliament. Individual Ministers will be
responsible for providing policy guidance on the public sector reform programs that fall
within their Ministerial purview.
Permanent Secretaries/Authorized Officers Coordinating Committee (PS/AOCC):
This committee, chaired by the Head of the Public Service, will be responsible for the
overall development and coordination of the public sector reform programme. All
Authorized Officers (AOs) will be members. The Committee will submit quarterly reports
to the Cabinet. All other reform committees will report to this committee.
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project (PSM-TAP) Subcommittee:
This subcommittee of PS/AOCC will provide guidance and coordination for the project. It
will be chaired by the PS/DPM and will consist of the AOs responsible for project
components.
PS/SC & Head of Public Service (HoPS): The PS/SC & HoPS will maintain oversight
responsibility for the implementation of the project. This oversight will be exercised
through the PS/AOCC, direct reporting by the Accounting Officer responsible for the
Project (PS/DPM), and direct briefings by the Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit
within which the Project Coordinating Unit will operate.



- 13 -
PS/D, DPM: The PS/D, DPM will be the accounting officer for the project. As such, he
will assume the responsibilities and obligations set out in Chapter 5 of the Government
Financial Regulations and Procedures of the Government of Kenya (GFRP). Accordingly,
he will be accountable to Parliament. He will be responsible for the project achieving the
objectives set forth in the logical framework. He will issue all Authorizations to Incur
Expenditure (AIEs) to other Government Ministries or departments and will thereby assume
the responsibilities set out in Paragraph 5.7.3 of the GFRP. He will submit all requests for
no objection to the Bank. He will have overall responsibility for all project financial,
procurement and progress reporting, and will bring to the attention of the Bank in his reports
any issues that might prevent any component of the Project from delivering its planned
outputs on time and within budget.
Project Coordination Unit: The PS/D, DPM will be supported by a small team drawn
from the Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit. The team will consist of a coordinator
and financial, procurement and monitoring and evaluation managers. The unit will help the
PS/D, DPM to meet his responsibilities as the AO for the project, and will assist the task
managers in the implementation agencies with procurement, financial management,
reporting, and communications.
PS/AOs: The PS/AOs in each of the implementing agencies will be responsible for
supporting the PS/D, DPM in achieving the results for their respective components as laid
out in the logical framework. As members of the PS/AOCC and PSM-TAP Subcommittee,
they will also be responsible for assisting in providing guidance and coordination.
Coordinators: Coordinators in each of the implementing ministries, departments or
agencies will be responsible for managing the resources provided to produce the outputs
required for the project to achieve its objectives. These resources are defined in the logical
framework and the project implementation plan. Each implementing agency will appoint
the necessary staff to support the Coordinators.
Each component of the project would be implemented according to terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. These would generally provide the basis for time-bound action
plans. Training and capacity building activities will be carried out according to agreed
timetables either with government training institutions or through contracts awarded through
competitive bidding. A detailed implementation plan will be agreed upon between the
Government and the Bank before project effectiveness. The implementation plan will be
regularly updated and discussed with the Bank during project implementation.
S.    Fnancial Management
Project records and accounts will be maintained by qualified financial officers to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures for each project activity in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The accounts will be consolidated annually into financial statements
for the whole project. Supporting documentation will be made available to the Bank's Task
Team Leader (TTL). For expenditures incurred on the basis of a Statement of Expenditure
(SOE), all records providing evidence for such expenditures will be retained by the
implementing organization for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report



- 14 -
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Special Account (SA) was made.
The control environment of implementing agencies will be assessed and appropriate
accounting and reporting systems will be developed according to Operational Policy
requirements through separate technical assistance (see Annex 5b on "Financial
Assessment" for more details).
The implementation arrangements will be revisited on a regular basis to take into account
technical and political changes as well as progress within the overall public sector reform
effort. Each World Bank supervision mission will review the implementation arrangements
with the Government and other contributing donors to suggest improvements or changes as
necessary.
6.    Procurement
Procurement will be carried out through the respective Government Departments and units
that are directly responsible for the components and sub-components of the Project under
the coordination and supervision of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the
Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM). The Implementing Departments and Units
will be responsible for, but not limited to, the following aspects of the procurement
activities and processes of their respective components and sub-components:
(1) preparation of annual work plans and procurement plans;
(2) development of Terms of Reference (TOR), short-lists, and Requests for Proposals
(RFP) for consulting assignments, and the preparation of bidding documents,
including technical specifications for goods contracts;
(3) setting up a good procurement filing system, and maintaining procurement
documentation; and
(4) preparation of plans for annual training programs that set out the objective of the
training, areas of training, and the number of trainees, cost estimate, timing and
venue (e.g. local or overseas) for each training activity.
The Implementing Departments and Units will clear their plans and procurement
documentation with the PCU which will play a central role in:
(1) consolidating the annual plans of all components and sub-components of the
Project into annual plans of the whole project;
(2) vetting procurement documents prepared by the Implementing Departments and
Units, and providing technical advice (when necessary) to procurement staff of
Implementing Departments and Units;
(3) advertising contracts (where appropriate);
(4) participating in the evaluation of bids and proposals submitted by invited suppliers
and consultants;
(5) preparing no objection letters for the PS/Director, DPM for onward transmittal to
the Bank for approval;
(6) advising the PS/Director, DPM on matters pertaining to the implementation of the
Project; and



- 15-
(7) maintaining a good procurement record-keeping system.
D.   Project Rationale
I.    Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
The Country Team considered both an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) program and a
traditional Technical Assistance Credit. While acknowledging the usefulness of APL as an
instrument in public sector reform efforts (references were made to the examples of Ghana
and Tanzania in the Africa Region and several others elsewhere), it was agreed that the
proposed three-year technical assistance (TA) was more appropriate for the Kenyan
situation. The attraction of the APL is that it takes a long-term perspective of institutional
reform (between 8 and 15 years) and is to be implemented over successive two to four
phases. Successful implementation of the activities scheduled for the first phase is a
precondition for proceeding to the subsequent phases. It was decided that such long term
APL-type commitment was not appropriate in Kenya's current political and economic
context. The project focuses on a small number of key systems and capacity building that
are needed to improve accountability and transparency in the public service. Depending on
the success of this project, an APL could be considered for a successor project.
The Country Team reviewed the scope of the project and judged it to be technically feasible
based on their assessment of Government's current capacity for execution.
2.    Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Development Agencies
While most donors have not been actively initiating major new interventions in Kenya for
the past three years, donor programs in support of public sector reform are emerging.
Recent World Bank projects have focused on infrastructure, early childhood development,
the environment, energy, rural development and health. While some of these projects have
capacity building components, most did not have significant public sector reform or
governance components.
RELATED PROJECTS                    RATING    DONOR/AGENCY
Public financial management; Public service                DFID
reform (remuneration support of technocrats on
contract appointments and possible financing of
other TAs);
Legal sector reform (commercial law reform,
strengthening office of Attorney-General notably
legislative drafting, legal aid);
Capacity building and training; Analytical studies
Public financial management; Legal sector reform;          SIDA
Public service reform (remuneration support of
technocrats on contract appointments and other



- 16-
TAs); Capacity building and training; Analytical
studies
Public service reform (TAs); Legal sector reform;              European Union
Public Financial Management (Strengthening the
Office of Controller and Auditor-General and the
MTEF process);
Capacity building and training; Analytical studies
Public service reform (remuneration support of                 Netherlands
technocrats on contract appointments) and support
for the Office of the Controller and Auditor-
General
Public service reform (remuneration support of                 UNDP
technocrats on contract appointments);
Public financial management (modest provision of
IT equipment and capacity building in the Ministry
of Finance and Planning); and legal sector reform
(computerization of records management and
training)
Strengthening parliament and its committees                    CIDA, USAID, WBI
Economic and Public Sector Reform                  U*, S       IDA
Local Governmnent Fiscal Restructuring (Proposed)              IDA
U=Unsatisfactory; S=Satisfactory
*This project was rated unsatisfactory because of poor procurement and financial management
performance. The proposed project has, therefore, included a Project Coordination Unit in the
Office of the President which will be staffed with procurement and financial managers trained in
Bank procedures.
3.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in Proposed Project Design
Important lessons have been learned from the past several years of Bank-financed public
sector reform in Kenya and elsewhere. These lessons highlight the need to:
* continue to identify and further refine the core functions of government
*  implement recommendations on the rationalization of ministerial structures
*  improve the capacity of managers and professionals in the public service
*  ensure there is political support for reforms at the highest level.
*  Emphasize a participatory approach and broad-gauged ownership of the reform
process. (Attention to this lesson in the preparation of this project is reflected in
Government's active role in project preparation).
Other lessons point to the need to establish linkages and ensure the appropriate phasing of
reforms. One of the most important lessons has been the importance of having an effective
senior management structure and clearly defined roles of Permanent Secretaries in guiding
the implementation of reforms.



- 17 -
The lessons learned from the Implementation Completion Report for the predecessor
Institutional Development and Civil Service Reforn Project were of particular value. They
include:
*  Government commitment during project design and implementation is essential. The
Bank team worked very closely with GOK in the design of the project.
* Appropriate institutional arrangements are crucialfor managing the reform process.
The arrangements agreed with GOK follow those recommended in a 1998 IDCRP
supervision mission and reflected in the ICR
* The importance of a coherent policy design should be underscored. The project
design links personnel and pay policy (a linkage not present in the past project) and
both with MTEF. Many of the project's components have transparency and
accountability themes: MTEF, government accounting, legal and judicial, and even
the integrated pay and personnel database system.
*  Proper sequencing is essential. Under this project, restructuring and retrenchment
will go hand-in-hand. An MTEF process will be in place to guide pay policy and
restructuring. For the legal and judicial sector, the project will focus on putting
some basic systems in place before concentrating on major, strategic reform.
*  Public procurement practices are essential to projects being executed on schedule.
The project will support the establishment of a Public Procurement Directorate and
will introduce a streamlined procurement process for its own operations.
-  A long term, strategic approach to technical assistance, which is not donor-driven, is
needed to achieve sustainable results. Previous projects were predominantly focused
on achieving macroeconomic targets. In most cases, these efforts failed to provide
enough room or sufficient time to implement a complex reformn agenda based on
institutional development and capacity building.
D  Strong discipline for the implementation process needs to be established to ensure
progress towards achieving long term objectives and a constant re-assessment of all
significant project elements. Previous public sector reforn projects have failed
because of insufficient control mechanisms and weak project implementation.
*  More attention needs to be paid to assuring frequent monitoring of technical
assistance outputs to assure their quality and to measure the overall performance of a
project. Performance indicators that focus more on quality, process and behavior are
needed.
*  Local champions who know what they want and know how to operate in the given
environment are important success factors.
4.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
Borrower commitment has been very high at the level of the President and the top
technocrats, notably the Head of Public Service, the Permanent Secretary, Treasury, and the
Permanent Secretary/Director, Directorate of Personnel Management.  This has been
reinforced by the President making public his views on the urgent need for public service
reform, with an emphasis on tackling the problems of inefficiency and corruption.
Governent has shown its willingness to undertake tough measures, as the public service



- 18 -
has been reduced from 274,000 in 1993 to 215,000 by 2000. A retrenchment plan has been
developed and adopted by Government (June 2000) that involves additional removal of over
32,000 civil servants from the payroll. By the end of September 2000, over 23,000 civil
servants had been removed. Safety nets are provided for the retrenchees. Furthermore,
Government has articulated a quality-enhancing reform program for the leaner civil service,
including pay reform and capacity building. Government has also been engaging the private
sector and civil society in the discussion of public sector reform. Some workshops and
public consultations on public sector reform were organized with the participation of high
level government officials and representatives of private sector and civil society
organizations.
5.    Value Added of Bank Support in this Project
IDA staff have played a catalytic role in the preparation of this program through their
involvement with the Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Credit that closed
in June 2000. The Bank has, in addition to financial support, drawn attention to good
African and international practices and lessons learned, and provided technical expertise.
The Bank also plays a facilitating role with donors in support of the public sector reform
process. Likewise, Bank experience with public sector reform projects in other countries
will add substantial value to the reform process in Kenya. This applies particularly to the
conceptual design of different components of the program. The proposed design herewith
reflects lessons learnt from other projects, in particular the need to:
3  Take a strategic, integrated approach based on a clear vision of the role, mandate and
operational objectives of the reformed public sector;
*  Assure the appropriate timing and sequencing of the various components of the
reform agenda;
* Build strong stakeholder commitment during project preparation; and to
?  Integrate effectively the ongoing PSM activities of other donors.
E.   Summary Project Analysis
1.    Economic
The economic issues to be addressed during project preparation relate mainly to the fiscal
situation, the improvements expected through the utilization of MTEF principles and the
effect of retrenchment, including the payment of retrenchment packages. Both issues were
addressed under the previous project. The MTEF process is to be consolidated and the
retrenchment plan needs to be faithfully implemented. The savings from retrenchment need
to be allocated judiciously towards improving pay and benefits, improving the ratio of pay
and emoluments to operations and maintenance (PE:OM ratio) and supporting other key,
high priority government concerns.



- 19 -
2.    Financial
A key theme of the project is the cost-effective provision of high-priority public services.
Improved and more efficient delivery of public services, as well as the closing of low-
priority activities should improve the overall financial position of government.
Furthermnore, improved financial control and accountability will ensure better value for
money, improved service delivery, and less waste, theft and corruption. The budgetary
impact of the public sector reform is also being addressed during project preparation with
the active involvement of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
3.    Technical
The PSM-TAP will utilize lessons learned in implementing other reform programs, but the
overall public sector reform program incorporates some of the trends seen in other parts of
the world. These include an increased emphasis on performance management, greater
professionalization of the workforce, and a focus on enhancing transparency and reducing
corruption across the public service.
4.    Institutional
4.1   Project Management
Effective project management is essential to assure the achievement of project inputs,
outputs and impact, as well as providing financial accountability with due diligence, and to
conduct transparent procurement procedures in the award of contracts. The institutional
arrangements for managing the project and for ensuring the sustainability of results build
upon experiences gained in the previous project and from earlier stages of reform. The key
executing agencies have been fully involved in the design of the current reform programme
and will participate in execution and management through ministerial and departmental
committees and via component-specific secretariats.  Project management will be
coordinated by a Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit reporting to the PS/Director of
DPM who, in turn, reports to the Head of Public Service. The new Head of Public Service
is committed to the reform of the public service. She played a key role in the initial
establishment of the Change Team two years ago when she was Permanent Secretary of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, recently, at her instruction, a paper has been prepared on
"A Structure for Performance Improvement in the Public Service."
4.2   Financial Management
The Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (PSRCU) will be responsible for ensuring
that the design and administration of financial management and reporting procedures for
the project will be acceptable to the Bank. Under the Coordinator, the PSRCU will be
responsible for the entire financial management, accounting, and disbursement functions
of the project, including the management of the Project Account, processing contracts



- 20 -
and payments for goods and services. A suitably qualified and experienced project
financial officer will be recruited to participate in the development of the financial
management system, including a comprehensive manual of financial procedures, chart of
accounts, and fully integrated project accounting structure, using an appropriate
accounting software. He will also guide and direct the financial management operations
of the project.
The financial management system will produce project financial statements including a
summary of sources and uses of funds, special account reconciliation statement, cash
withdrawal statement, and cash forecast. The chart of accounts will facilitate the
presentation of summary expenditures by component, activity and disbursement category.
The PRSCU will maintain accounts, make payments for eligible expenditures, manage
the project account to be opened for the project, and ensure high quality preparation of
project financial statements and timely submission of audit reports to IDA.
Overall, the project will satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
There are also organizational risks associated with adapting and elucidating existing
standards and procedures to guide internal control and accounting, with clear delegation
and segregation of duties. These risks may result in unintentional errors, omissions,
miscalculations, late submission of financial statements, and delays in the flow of funds.
Successful implementation of the financial management action plan (Annex 5b) will,
however, allow the project to satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under
OP/BP 0. 02.
Since the designated project accounting system has not been developed, there is not yet in
place a financial management system that can provide the information required by the
Bank for the project management report (PMR) based disbursements as stipulated in the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Handbook. Thus, in the short-term,
existing disbursement procedures, outlined in the Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will
be followed (i.e., direct payment, reimbursement and special commitment, if
appropriate).
The appointment of a reasonably qualified and experienced project financial officer, as
well as the successful implementation of the financial management action plan should
facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within eighteen months of
effectiveness. Actions required for attaining LACI compliance have been developed and
were agreed with the borrower at appraisal. A financial management review of the
program should be undertaken by a Bank financial management specialist within twelve
months of effectiveness to assess progress and initiate the process of conversion to PMR-
based disbursement procedures.
5.    Environmental
Not applicable.



-21 -
6.    Social
As with most civil service reform programmes, there will be offsetting social effects from
some aspects of the project, especially retrenchment. While a number of civil servants will
leave the service, a retrenchment package has been developed to minimize instances of dire
poverty as a direct consequence. Likewise, the positive impact of improved service
delivery, and savings from increased effectiveness and efficiency should be felt nation-wide.
The reform programme includes a review of pension schemes, medical care, housing and
other social benefits to ensure civil servants receive adequate remuneration, healthcare, and
old-age retirement benefits. Government has involved civil society organizations and the
private sector in the discussion of its public sector strategic plan at the National Consultative
Forum on the IPRSP in March 2000. The retrenchment program developed by government
has included strong components to ensure equity on the basis of gender and disability.
7.    Safeguard Policies
SAFEGUARD POLICY                               RISK OF NON-COMPLIANCE
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                          N/A
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            N/A
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                          N/A
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   N/A
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               N/A
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                N/A
Involuntary Resettlements (OP 4.30)                         N/A
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                    N/A
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)               N/A
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                        N/A
8.    Business Policies
BUSINESS POLICY                          APPLICABLE
Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)                YES
Cost sharing above country three-year average           NO
(OP/GP/BP 12.10)
Retroactive financing above normal limits               NO
(OP/GB/BP 12.10)
Financial Management (OP/B 10.02)                       YES
Involvement of NGOs (GP 14.70)                          NO
Other                                                   NO
F.    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability
The Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project (Credit 2671-KE) that
closed on June 30, 2000 was extended for a final nine months in September 1999 because
Government was evincing a strong commitment to tackling the problems of inefficiency and
corruption in its public sector institutions. Some of the actions already implemented include



-22 -
the reduction in the number of ministries from 27 to 15; clarifying the respective roles of
Ministers and of Permanent Secretaries as Accounting Officers and making Accounting
Officers in ministries and departments accountable to Parliament and fully responsible for
managing the finance and personnel functions in their ministries; and the removal of corrupt
and/or inefficient managers from leadership positions in several ministries and parastatals. A
Medium Term Expenditure Framework has been introduced to ensure that government
budgets are effectively related to policy priorities over a rolling three-year time frame.
Government also prepared a retrenchment plan to be implemented during FY2000/2001 and
2002/2003.
Sustainability of the reform program will depend upon the continued commitment of the
political and technocratic leadership teams and the cascading of support to middle
management officers and throughout the entire public service. Likewise, sustainability over
the longer term will be predicated on ownership of long term reforms at all levels of the
machinery of government and building adequate local capacities for improved service
delivery.
2.    Critical Risks
The project carries high risk in some areas, especially those that are closely linked to
political circumstances and related to the capacity to implement a comprehensive reform
prograrn.  The design of the reform  program  reflects this overall risk assessment,
particularly in the implementation arrangements, sequencing, and accountability
mechanisms.  In addition, the project takes account of the current uncertain policy
environment by focusing on improving basic systems of accountability rather than major
policy reforms.
RISK          RISK        ~~~~RIS  MIIIATION
Change in Government (or key           H       Ensure broad ownership and "buy
government officials)                          in" from all levels of government
and civil service.
Personalization of reforn program, or  M       Ensure meritocratic appointments
components thereof                             and professional capacity of
administrative and technical
leaders.
Poor capacity and failure of training   H      Provide sufficient support to
programs                                       public institutions involved in
training and ensure access to
private training.
Too complex and difficult to manage    M       Focus on high priority
components. Ensure adequate
financial management and
implementation arrangements.



- 23 -
Donor funding requirements will not be  L      On-going discussions with donors.
met                                            Reassurances as to effectiveness
and implementation capacity.
Good understanding of donor
priorities.
Fiscal/budgetary constraints restrict  H       Full implementation of MTEF and
Government ability to "follow through"         recognition of constraints,
especially created by other factors
such as drought, power shortages,
_______________________________________etc.
Key reforms blocked by political action  H     Inclusion of Cabinet and
Parliament in the reform process.
Commitment from highest
political levels.
Adverse social impact                  M       Ensure socially responsible and
affordable retrenchment packages
and social safety nets for
retrenchees.
HIV/AIDS could undermine gains from    H       Faithful implementation of GOK's
capacity building and training efforts         national strategy on fighting
HIV/AIDS could help control the
spread of the pandemic.
Resistance to further reforms, especially  H   Political support especially in the
retrenchment                                   context of forthcoming elections,
staff sensitization and well
managed implementation.
High=High; M=Medium; L=Low
3.    Possible ControversialAspects
The project will be implemented in a very politically sensitive environment. There will be
elections in the project's second year and a new government will be formed. Most of the
project focuses on technical matters: strengthening or putting the basic systems in place for
a more effective delivery of public services to all Kenyans. The majority of the policy
reforms supported by the project will be introduced towards the end of the project.
G.   Main Loan Conditions
1.    Effectiveness Conditions
1. Project coordination team in place in the Office of the Permanent Secretary/Director,
Directorate of Personnel Management. These include: Coordinator, Procurement
and Financial Specialist, Economist/Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and IEC
Specialist.
2. Financial management system satisfactory to IDA.
3. Project Implementation Plan satisfactory to IDA.



-24 -
H.   Readiness for Implementation
X   1. (a) Not applicable.
X   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready
for the start of project implementation.
X   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and
of satisfactory quality.
I.    Compliance with Bank Policies
X  I 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
arnett                     D. Levy             Harold E.  ackman
Team Leader               -:eXtor Manager              Country Director



-25 -
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Hierarchy of Objectives      Key Performance       Monitoring and         C     ritta
Indicators           Evauon            Aaunpdoas
Sector Indicators    Sector/Country       (Goal to Bank
Reports                Mission)
Sector Related CAS Goal:    Performance
Indicators:
A new CAS is being drafted.                         * occasional ESW    * continuation of a
The key issues for the next  These indicators are taken   reports        shared
CAS are summarized in       from the current CAS and                     Government of
"Kenya Country Assistance   are likely to be valid for                   Kenya-Bank
Strategy 2001." The CDF     the next CAS: improved                       vision to fight
outlined in the draft CAS   delivery of public                           poverty
identifies public administration  services
and human resource          * improved public
development as the two "high    financial management
focus" priorities for the Bank.  * improved public sector
Both are high priorities for this   accountability
project.                    * reduced corruption
OUTPUT FOR EACH                 OUTPUT               PROJECT           OUTPUT TO
OBJECTIVE                INDICATORS              REPORTS           OBJECTIVE
Component 1: Public Service  * Studies to be         * IPPD system      * funds available
Reform                        completed on services   quarterly reports    for increased
to be privatized,                          salaries and O+M
Objective: To create a leaner    contracted out or   * Joint DPM and     - dependent upon
and highly motivated public   commercialized and      Treasury           re-allocation of
service, better equipped to   sound exit plans        Budgetary reports   retrenchment
deliver services to the public.                                         savings and
prepared followinggrwnecom
Outputs:                      completion of these                        and revenue
* improved pay and benefits   studies by December,
* contributory superanuation  2003.                                     * government
scheme and new medical     * Size of civil service  * DPM annual        approval of
insurance scheme            reduced in accordance    report             ministerial
* integrated performance and  with such exit plans by                    rationalization
appraisal system            June 2004.                                  recommendations
* rationalized services     * Develop and begin to                       on privatization
* integrated payroll and     implement an                                and contracting
personnel database          affordable pay and                          out
benefits policy within
the MTEF by June
2004.



-26 -
Sector Indicators    Sector/Country       (Goal to Bank
.______________________ _      Reports                 Mission)
* IPPD to be fully
operational in all
ministries and TSC by
2004.
Component 2: Public          * Core staff in         * report reviewing
Financial Management          ministries/department   quality of staff
s trained to operate
Objective: Objective: To      the MTEF in
achieve more effective and    respective ministerial
efficient utilization of public   budget processes by        . supervision
resources with enhanced       2004.                    missions and
accountability and           * MTEF computer           quarterly reports
transparency and to improve   information systemqurelrpot
transparency and efficiency    linked to IPPD and
in the procurement of goods    IFMIS by 2004.        * report on C+AG
and services.                * 75% of professional     staffing
positions in C&AG's
Outputs:                      office filled with staff
* MTEF manual                 trained to post-graduate
* MTEF training               level or a minimum of
* integrated financial        part II of CPA (K)
management system linked     professional standards                    * financial and
to MTEF                      by 2004.                                    accounting
* Internal Audit Manual      * 60% of professional                        regulations
* training for Department of  accounting positions                        approved by
Internal Audit, AG and       (Chief Accountant                           Parliament
C&AG staff                   and above) across
* synchronized procurement    Governnent trained
procedures                   to professional
* computer aided auditing     standards by 2004.                         * Parliament passes
* Generally Accepted         * Develop Internal                           public
Accounting                   Audit Manual by June                        procurement law
* Procurement Directorate     2003.
* capacity building for      * 30% of Internal Audit
procurement implementation    Staffto be trained on
* synchronized procedures     the application of
* Procurement Appeals Board    Computer Assisted
Audit Techniques
(CAATs) by
December 2004.



-27 -
EHierarcy of Objectvies    Key Performance     Moitoring and        Critca
Indicators         Evalution        Assumptions
Sector Indicators    Sector/Country    (Goal to Bank
._______________________  ____________________   R eports     M ission)
* Operations of PPD
enhanced through the
completion of
procurement of
equipment financed
by the project by
December 2002.
* Procurement capacity
of public procurement
entities assessed and
appropriate training
programs developed
by June 2002 and
training programs
implemented by June
2003.
* Public entities to have
established tender
committees as per the
procurement
regulations by June
2002.
* Procurement
Regulations applied
by all public entities
by June 2002.
* Public Procurement
Complaints, Review
and Appeals Board
established and
operational by
December 2001
OUTPUT FOR EACH              OUTPUT              PROJECT          OUTPUT TO
OBJECTIVE              INDICATORS            REPORTS          OBJECTIVE
Component 3. Legal Sector   * Pilot program on case  * report on  * staffing sufficient
Reform                     management             effectiveness of    to improve
established; incidence   legal system   services
Objective: To establish a  of established number * progress reports
framework for the          of lost files in pilot



-28 -
Hierrchyof Obijectives    key ?erormanee        Monft1oring and,      Crtcal
Indicators     EvauationAsmtin
Sector Indicators   Sector/Country       (Goal to Bank
._____.__________ .___   Reports               Mission)
achievement of timely,      program reduced by     * annual statistics   * Parliament
accessible, and responsive  60% by December          from procurement   approves
legal system.               2004.                    M+E                mechanisms
*Average time taken
Outputs:                     from filing to disposal * annual statistics
* ease registration/ retrieval  of commercial cases  from procurement
process                     reduced from 5 years    M+E
* law reporting              in 2000 to 2 years in
in 2000 to 2 years in   * annual statistics
the pilot program      from procurement
* Revised chapters of    M+E
the Laws of Kenya
(those that affect
public management)
available on CD-
ROM and in print by
December 2004.
* Pilot program on
Recording of Court
Proceedings
completed by
December 2004 and
ready for replication
throughout the
country
OUTPUT FOR EACH                OUTPUT               PROJECT          OUTPUT TO
OBJECTIVE                INDICATORS             REPORTS           OBJECTIVE
Component 4: Project        * Quarterly project    * supervision
Coordination and Change      reports on progress,    reports
Management for PSR           plans, issues, finance
Objective: To support an     and accounting, and
efficient and effective      procurement are
coordinating body and process   submitted on time and
that support the reform      of high quality from
program across the Public    2001 to end of                . .
Sector.                      project.                seris
Outputs:                    * 70% of contracts       reports
* project management         signed on time, in
* technical support/ IEC     accordance with
* change management team (I    procurement plans for
year)                       whole of 2003 to end
of project.



-29 -
Hriemrahy of Objectve        K&y forMnce                Itf X             Ct
_ __ _              -Evah   .n-   'Assnmpdww
Sector Indicators    Sector/Country       (Goal to Bank
____ ____ ____ ____ ___  ____ ____ ____ ___ Reports  XM ission)
PROJECT COMPONENTS   INPUTS FROM                        PROJECT           OUTPUT TO
BUDGET               REPORTS           OBJECTIVE
(US$ million)
Component 1: Public Service           8.4            * quarterly project   * timely
Reform                                                progress reports    availability of
counterpart funds
Component 2: Public                   7.0            * annual
Financial Management                                  disbursement
reports
Component 3: Legal Sector             1.7            * annual audit
Systems                                               reports
Component 4: Project                  3.4
Coordination
TOTAL                                20.5



- 30 -
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
1.    Public Service Reform (US$ 8.4 million)5
Objective: Creation of a leaner and highly motivated public service, better equipped to
deliver services to the public.
The civil service establishment burgeoned from 63,000 at independence in 1963 to 272,000
in 1992, reflecting both a greater demand for public services and Government's commitment
to be the employer of last resort. By 1992 Government, having concluded that cost and
affordability had to be given greater consideration, conducted a review of the structure and
functions of the civil service. It was against this background that the civil service reform
programme that was launched in 1993 focused essentially on staff and wage bill reduction.
Staff size was reduced significantly through measures that included a Voluntary Early
Retirement Scheme (VERS): from 272,000 in 1992 to 218,000 in January 1997. However,
simultaneously with the cuts in civil service staff numbers, there was an increase in the
number of teachers, from 226,300 in 1992 to 241,300 in 1997. Furthermore, the savings
made under the VERS were offset by the significant salary increase approved for teachers in
1997/98. Over this period, little attention was paid to the performance-enhancing
components of the reform programme: pay reform, personnel management and training, and
financial management.
In July 2000, Government decided on a comprehensive public service reform programme
that would simultaneously address issues to improve governance and accountability and
performance improvement issues. Consequently, this project will finance the costs of
implementing reform measures focused on four broad areas: (i) ministerial rationalization;
(ii) modernizing personnel establishment controls; (iii) developing and beginning
implementation of a new pay and benefit policy and enhanced performance management;
and (iv) developing Government training policy and instigating training needs assessments.
1.1.  Ministerial Rationalization (US$ 3.5 million)
Government has made significant progress in the redefinition and rationalization of
government functions. Core functions of government have been defined and ministries and
departments have carried out functional reviews. Under the Public Sector Reform
Programme, the first phase of retrenchment involves some 25,000 civil servants across all
grade levels as a result of over-manning reductions and abolition of functions. The civil
service retrenchment programme continues into this project with phase II focusing on
privatization and phase III focusing on contracting-out of government functions and an
associated reduction in staff numbers. Overall, total civil service strength will be reduced
by about 32,000 civil servants over the period 2000 to 2003. IDA support for this sub-
component focuses on assessing the feasibility of the privatization and contracting of
services and developing and implementing exit plans for those staff leaving the service.
5Includes PPF and Government contribution.



- 31 -
Assessment and Exit Plans for Functions to be Privatized or Contracted Out
As a continuation of the ministerial rationalization undertaken in the previous project and
under the PPF, ten functions currently performed by government have been identified for
privatization and 17 functions have been identified for contracting out. The
recommendations regarding these functions will be evaluated to determine the viability for
privatization and contracting out. The credit will finance feasibility assessments in each of
these functional areas and support development of technically sound exit plans. IDA will
fund a market study, quality control mechanisms, development of the legal framework for
privatization and contracting, training for personnel audits and the reform teams in each
Ministry, and management training for administration of contracted-out services. This
exercise will be closely linked to the continuous functional reviews associated with the
MTEF.
1.2   Establishment Control and Harmonization of Payroll and Personnel Data
System (US$ 2.2 million)
To ensure that the reform gains of the retrenchment exercise are sustained, strict control of
establishment and staffing is to be put in place in the Public Service, underpinned by a
computer-based Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database (IPPD) System. Elements of the
IPPD system, developed with the support of the predecessor CSRP (1995-2000), are already
working on a pilot basis at the headquarters of four ministries (although not yet for day-to-
day management). The full IPPD, which computerizes complement control, payroll
administration, the budget for personal emoluments, the education and skills inventory, and
establishment control is scheduled to be introduced in all ministries as early as December
2001 and in the Teachers' Service in 2002 (other services may easily be included later on).
The project will finance a number of key activities required to achieve these objectives.
The IPPD system will overcome current weaknesses in payroll and establishment
management by, among others: minimizing irregular payments; introducing on-line data
capture facilities to minimize delays in updating personnel data; generating timely and
accurate reports in formats suitable for managers and decision-makers; and, links with
budget and financial expenditure data systems. These changes will facilitate the
maintenance of a 'clean' payroll, the elimination of 'ghost' workers and the prevention of
fraud. To strengthen payroll control until the IPPD system is in place, DPM have established
a Payroll Audit Team to monitor salary payments and investigate any extraordinary or
excessive payments.
1.3   Develop and Introduce a New Pay and Benefits Policy and Performance
Management (US$ 2.0 million)
Pay Policy
Government is fully aware that the terms and conditions of employment in the public sector
are highly inadequate; that they are currently a major factor constraining the ability of



- 32 -
government to perform well and are a factor of corruption.  To address this issue,
Government will develop and implement, as soon as possible, a Medium-Term Pay and
Benefits Policy (MTPBP) designed to motivate and increase real income for public servants
within an affordable wage bill. The MTPBP, to be developed under a set of guiding
principles, whilst drawing upon the work of the Harmonization Commission on Terms and
Conditions of Service for Public Servants (Kipkulei Report, 1999), will include the
development of the following elements with Bank assistance: i) options for the creation of a
Senior Executive and Professional Service (SEPS) comprising a small elite cadre of staff
who are considered essential to the functioning of ministries and departments; ii) a Selected,
Accelerated Salary Enhancement Scheme (SASES) that will provide for the payment of a
competitive package of emoluments to the SEPS and other essential, well-performing,
senior staff; iii) a High Fliers' Scheme (HFS) oriented to the selection and grooming of mid-
career public servants with an outstanding record of ability and achievement; and, iv) a job-
evaluation exercise that will, in turn, provide the basis for; (v) the design of a revised
remuneration structure.
Non-Salary Benefits
Government currently pays a range of fees, commissions and honoraria as well as meal,
entertainment, vehicle, transport, housing, utilities, watchman and other allowances to many
civil servants. There is a perception of considerable inequity and waste (at considerable cost
to the wage bill) in the administration of several of these non-salary benefits. A new policy
has been developed for housing; the project will help revise or develop policies for medical
allowances and a pre-funded, contributory pension plan. To encourage transparency, equity
and ease of administration, the new Pay and Benefits Policy (PBP) will undertake further
rationalization to minimize the use of non-salary allowances and benefits with an immediate
focus upon health care. A second major study will be financed to examine options and
make recommendations for transforming the Government's pension scheme to a
contributory scheme.
Benchmarks for Civil Service Performance/Service Delivery Surveys
Government has recognized that a high level of administrative competence is pre-requisite
to high quality policy formulation and implementation, and that resources are required to
monitor systematically the performance, both institutional and individual, of the public
service. Accordingly, the project will assist Government to establish benchmarks for civil
service performance and to measure changes in the coverage, quality and impact of service
delivery through the conduct of periodic service-delivery and budget-tracking surveys. The
results of these surveys will be used as an integral component of Government's approach to
performance management. (See also section on Service Delivery Surveys under the sub-
component on MTEF).
In order to strengthen the use of pay awards as a policy instrument, and to reward skills,
experience and results objectively, the project will help Government examine options for
adopting and implementing improved personnel management systems relating to the
appointment, re-assignments, appraisal, pay and promotion of public servants. These will



-33 -
include de-emphasizing seniority as a criterion in decisions on promotion, and making
performance measures and an objective appraisal system the major criteria for future
promotions and salary increases. In addition to the survey work described above, the project
will assist Government work with ministries and agencies to devise and pilot performance-
based pay schemes and to inculcate a performance-based culture related to their particular
circumstances.
1.4   Training Policy and Training Needs Assessment (US$ 0.5 million)
Government recognizes the need for a national training policy to guide the training activities
of government agencies and ensure scarce resources are directed to effective and priority
training. The activities to be financed under this sub-component are the development of a
strategy to guide civil service in-service, demand-driven training, a thorough assessment of
current training mechanisms and modalities, and the completion of ministerial training
needs assessments.  As a result, Government will be better able to mount effective and
efficient training programmes that respond to identified priority needs and that are
affordable and sustainable. Effective in-service training is regarded as an essential element
to provide the civil service with the skills required to improve service delivery, change
management practices, and provide efficient and accountable utilization of resources.
1.5   Development of a National Strategy and Policy Framework on Information
Technology (US$ 0.2 million)
In September 2000, Government appointed a national Coordinator for Information
Technology. He is to lead the preparation of a national strategy and policy framework for
IT that would cover all the sectors: public, private and civic. The project will finance the
preparation of the strategy and policy framework; the costs of consultants to be hired; and
the costs of running workshops through which stakeholders from the different sectors would
make contributions to the preparation of the strategy.
Component 2: Public Financial Management (US$ 7.0 million)6
Objective: Enhance accountability and ensure more effective utilization ofpublic resources.
2.1.  Implementation of MTEF (US $ 2.0 million)
The MTEF was introduced and adopted in 1998 after the October 1997 Public Expenditure
Review Report (PER) emphasized the need for comprehensive public sector reforms to
tackle the problem posed by poor public expenditure management and specifically
recommended the adoption of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework to guide the
efficient and effective use of Government resources. The MTEF was considered an
appropriate instrument to gradually restore institutional arrangements to support policy and
6 Includes PPF and Government contributions.



- 34 -
performance-oriented budget management. The MTEF seeks to link planning and budgeting
and give budgetary content to the Government's PSRP7 commitments within the context of
an agreed macroeconomic strategy, while identifying some of the crucial systematic public
sector reforms that should be undertaken if public sector policies are to succeed in
accelerating social and economic progress. MTEF requires focus on three levels of budget
relating to: (i) aggregate fiscal discipline; (ii) strategic resource allocation; and (iii)
operational efficiency of public services and programs.
Thus the MTEF seeks to restrain the aggregate cost of policy initiatives to what is
affordable. It will force policy makers to make strategic choices on policy and program
priorities through an institutionally appropriate forum, and will ensure operational efficiency
in the delivery of public services and programmes through appropriate monitoring and
accountability mechanisms. An MTEF programme was officially initiated in November
1999 with the establishment of an MTEF Secretariat and Sectoral Working Groups (SWGs)
to coordinate the MTEF activities. Working closely with line ministries, the Secretariat
prepared the 2000/01 budget and two-year forward estimates on the basis of MTEF
principles. The process will be further refined during the implementation of the new public
sector reform agenda and the PRSP.
Since its adoption the following have been achieved: resource estimation through
consultation of various stakeholders and an effort to develop a macro economic forecasting
model; a sectoral approach to policy prioritization including resource allocation; publication
of an annual budget with two-year forward estimates consistent with government policy
priorities and commitments; publication of an Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. It
is envisaged that implementation of the MTEF process and principles in full will occur over
a longer time period of up to 10 years as policy and institutional linkages are developed and
consolidated across the various sectors, and as the process is fully internalized in the entire
public service sector. Some of the key components that come first in MTEF implementation
are covered in this Project. In order to fully institutionalize the MTEF process, the following
are the areas that require to be developed and strengthened over the Project time span. The
actions below follow directly from the Kenya Country Financial Accountability Assessment
Develop a Comprehensive MTEF Implementation Manual
The current budget process will need to be documented. The purpose of such documenting
will be to get a wide understanding on the part of practitioners of the whole process of
budget preparation, for efficient process and for general institutionalization. In this latter
connection, the manual will form the background document for training and future
reference. The manual will be as comprehensive as possible and reviewed regularly.
Institutional Capacity Building
The first MTEF had to be completed within seven months. Consequently, those charged
with the duty of preparing it had to use the little knowledge gained in the few workshops
held locally on the MTEF process. In the next three years capacity will be built in Treasury
7 Subject to a joint World Bank/IMF staff assessment.



-35 -
and in line ministries by training officers both locally and overseas on the various areas of
MTEF. In addition there will be study tours to countries that have also adopted MTEF so
that Kenyan practitioners may learn from their experiences. Workshops and training will be
conducted for capacity building on decentralization and rolling out the MTEF process to the
districts.
Development and Implementation of a Comprehensive Budget Management System
with Monitoring and Evaluation capabilities
Government is currently using several computer information systems to allocate and track
expenditure. The system used to compile and produce the printed budget estimates is based
on an outdated database program. The computerized budget system requires overhauling to
link it with the IPPD and the Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMS)
currently being developed. In addition, the current classification of expenditures will be
modified to facilitate rapid and appropriate analysis of the budget. The funds will be utilized
to develop the budget computer system at Treasury and the line ministries-based budget
preparation programs into a modern, user-friendly budget program; train users and conduct
capacity building on the new budgeting system, and purchase equipment for installation in
line Ministries for use by MTEF Ministry-based teams.
Public Expenditure Reviews and Service Delivery Surveys
In order to assess whether the resources are being utilized efficiently and effectively to
deliver the desired services, periodic expenditure tracking surveys will be carried out. These
surveys will complement those being carried out to report on service delivery. The
expenditure tracking surveys will address thematic areas. For example, the first one will
focus on budget implementation, particularly on the delivery of health and basic education
services with a focus on the poor.
2.2   Strengthening Government Finance and Accounting (US$ 1.2 million)8
The weakness of the Kenya Government finance and accounting system as a key
explanatory factor of limited financial accountability was identified through an analytical
study of the systems in place across a sample of key ministries and a number of districts in
1996/97. The study was managed by the Accountant General's Department with the
assistance of consultants. The World Bank, UK/DflD and SIDA since then have been
working closely with the Accountant General supporting the entire process with financial
resources and technical advice. The initial support from the World Bank was through the
now closed Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Credit (Cr. 2671-KE). This
project supported the purchase of computers, while DflD and SIDA provided support for
consultants' services and training respectively.
The activity has progressed well, though slowly. A number of outputs envisaged at the
beginning have been delivered, while work is on-going to deliver on others. In 1999/2000,
8 Includes PPF and Government contributions.



-36 -
new areas that require attention emerged and additional resource needs were identified. In
view of their importance and implication for the achievement of the main objective, it was
agreed to continue providing Bank support through the proposed Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance Credit. To this end, the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) resources
for this Credit are already being used to meet some of the initial requirements. The Bank
and Government have jointly identified areas that need to be supported under the Credit.
The ongoing Task Force work of reviewing the relevant financial legislation is at an
advanced state of producing a draft report. The Task Force will require Technical Assistance
to take the process to the next step of developing draft financial procedures and regulations
for the central government at the levels of line ministries and the Districts, taking into
account the integrated financial management framework. The Task Force will also require
assistance in drafting new legislation (Bill) that will eventually become the new law for
regulating the financial management and accounting of public resources.
One specific gain expected from this process will be a new flow-of-funds framework that
will facilitate direct accessibility of donor funds by the project implementing entities which
have the primary accountability and responsibility for use of project funds and performance.
Further assistance will be required for a financial management consultant to help the
Accountant General adopt a modified accrual based accounting system that will technically
bring the subject of public assets inventory and management under control. The Task Force
that the department has put in place for this task should work within this framework.
Additional office and communication equipment will be required to provide districts and
sub-districts with adequate facilities to ensure adherence to timely processing and reporting
requirements. This is particularly critical now that the flow of funds to line ministries and
districts is expected to improve and be sustained. The Accountant General will pursue the
training agenda by developing an overall training plan, supported by SIDA assistance. He
will also be required to review and revise the scheme of service for government accounting
staff that is specific to the needs of public sector accounting.
2.3   Internal Auditing ( US$ 1.0 million)9
Given the importance of the internal audit function as a management tool for the purpose of
strengthening accountability, it is essential to include internal auditing as an integral part of
the financial management framework in the public sector. As outlined in the Kenya Country
Financial Accountability Assessment, the existing Department of Internal Audit in the
Ministry of Finance and Planning has failed for many years to functionally exploit its full
potential for a variety of reasons. To assist the department refocus its resources and energies
to fulfill its mandated responsibility, it is necessary to restructure the Department. In this
regard, technical assistance will be provided under the project to help the Department
review its operations and develop a new strategy that will guide it in its effort to deliver. In
addition, the Department will work in close collaboration with the Accountant General and
the Directorate of Personnel Management (DPM) in the development of a suitable scheme
of service for public sector internal auditors, based on the business needs of the central
government.
9 Includes Government contributions.



-37 -
Capacity Building has also been identified as crucial for the internal audit function to attain
and maintain high professional standards in its operations. To this end, a variety of
appropriate training initiatives will be organized for the internal auditors. The project will
finance consultants to help build the required capacity. Finally, there is need to provide
equipment and vehicles that would be required for special operations and investigations.
2.4   Strengthening of the Auditor General's Department (US$ 1.7 million)'0
A credible public audit system can be measured by the predictability and consistency of its
operations and reports as an institution of accountability. The auditing role in the public
sector for some time (since 1984) has been performed by two auditing institutions. The
Auditor General (Corporations) was a creation hived off from the constitutional Office of
the Controller and Auditor General, with the specific mandate of auditing State Corporations
(parastatals). As part of the streamlining of functions of government, and restructuring,
Government has decided to merge the two audit institutions back into one, for greater
efficiency and effectiveness. It is also envisaged that the merged departments will assume a
new structure with greater autonomy, underpinned by a new Audit Act that would result
from a review of the relevant legislation. The plan is to constitute the merged departments
into a National Audit Office, similar to the one established in South Africa in the late 1 990s.
This process will be supported under this project. The Auditor General will require
consultants' help to develop a new business plan and an appropriate scheme of service for
the office, on the basis of which staffing will be determined. The Kenya CFAA provides
nine recommendations for improvement which serve as the basis of support under the
project.
Quality and timeliness of the office's deliverables are important. Training and access to
information are some of the building blocks that the office will require to ensure timely
reporting to the legislature and other stake holders. Modalities for this will include the
development of an in-house information resource center (library), a sufficiently equipped
computer laboratory, a well-equipped in-house training center, and training in local and
regional institutions to meet professional and managerial training needs. It is also envisaged
that consultant trainers will be needed especially in common courses where a large number
of staff is involved. In the area of office technology, computers would be required to enable
the office network across the 25 branches based in Nairobi where there are Accounting
Units, in the provinces for the central government, as well as for the local authorities.
Similarly, arrangements would be required for the large parastatals. Given the operational
nature of auditing, staff will require laptop computers for use while in the field to facilitate
timely reporting and effectiveness.
Finally, to enable the National Audit Office to deliver services with efficiency and
effectiveness, it would need a good and reliable communication and transport system. In
this regard, functional vehicles will be provided under the project. To ensure that the NAO
achieves and maintains a high standard of professionalism, the office will use peers to
 Includes Government contributions.



- 38 -
regularly review its tool kits and audit quality-review arrangement from time to time. The
office also plans to subscribe to the international information highway to access information
and share its experiences with counterparts in other countries within the region and globally,
e.g. INTOSAI. The main assumption for the activities proposed under this sub-component is
that Government will approve the restructuring proposal, that a new Audit Act will be
enacted, and that Treasury will avail the Department with its budgetary requirements in full
and in time. The office is hesitant to charge fees to all its clients at the moment in view of
the experience it has had with large bad debts due to failure by parastatals and local
authorities to pay for even nominal audit fees.
2.5   Procurement Reform (US$ 1.1 million)ll
In 1998 the Government embarked on a public procurement reform exercise with World
Bank financial support through an IDF grant. Government has restructured the composition
of the Central Tender Board with representation from the private sector. Procurement
regulations were prepared by consultants and were accepted by the Government. These
regulations were gazetted on 30th March 2000 and implementation began in April 2001. The
consultants have also drafted a procurement bill, which will be presented to parliament for
debate. Enactment is expected by December 31, 2001. In addition, a capacity building
program has been prepared by the consultants and implementation is envisaged to
commence after the proposed Public Procurement Directorate (PPD) becomes operational.
For effective enforcement of the new regulatory instruments that have been formulated
under the on-going Public Procurement Reform Project, a Public Procurement Directorate
whose Director has already been appointed will be established. This entity will be staffed
with adequate and qualified manpower and equipped with the capacity and institutional
mandate to oversee and direct the implementation of the public procurement regulation.
The Public Procurement Regulations were gazetted as a legal notice No. 51 on 30 March
2001. The Public Procurement Director will broadly have responsibilities which will
include: (1) to oversee the new Public Procurement Regulations ensuring that they are
complied with by all public entities; (2) to ensure that the appropriate tender committees are
formed in all procuring entities; (3) to develop and implement training programs for public
procurement officers; (4) to provide technical advice to procuring entities as necessary; and
(5) to provide secretariat services to the Public Procurement Appeals Board. Consultants
financed under the PPF of this project will assist in working out the detailed structure,
staffing and mandate of the PPD. The project will also support the PPD in the following
areas:
Procurement of vehicles, and office equipment and furniture
The Project will provide PPD with the basic logistical capacity that will lay the foundation
for the PPD to evolve into an efficient and credible entity. Specifically the project proceeds
will finance procurement of vehicles, computer hard- and software and accessories, and
office furniture.
I l Includes PPF and Govemrnment contributions.



-39 -
Technical Assistance and Training
The Project will also finance the fees of technical experts and consultants that PPD will
require for the preparation of plans for procurement training programs and IT requirements,
and establishment of MIS. Under this sub-component, PPD will recruit consultants to carry
out implementation of the training plans that the consultants will develop and production of
IEC materials.
Other Training Costs
Expenditures relating to PPD operations in: (1) producing; (2) printing; (3) distribution and
presentation of publicity materials and programs through the media; (4) organizing training
workshops, and PR fora on the new public procurement regulations/law; and (5) other
training costs related to these activities will be funded under the Project.
3.    Legal Sector Reform (US $1.7 million)12
Objective: To provide a framework for the achievement of fair, accessible, timely, and
responsive legal and judicial systems.
The weakness of the Kenyan justice system is linked to the constraints on the independence
of the judiciary, poor enforcement of the rule of law, inadequate staff strength, and lack of
integrity in the legal sector, from the lowest levels to the highest. Other manifestations
include huge case backlogs and poor handling of legal issues relating to debt recovery, land
administration, and the maintenance of law and order. Government acknowledges strong
linkages between the reform of the justice system and the broader Public Sector Reforms,
including the IPRSP and the MTEF. In 1998, the GOK appointed the Legal Sector Reform
Coordinating Committee (LSRCC) to comprehensively review the sector. The LSRCC's
output is the Legal Sector Reform Program (LSRP), developed through a participatory
approach involving, among others, two stakeholder workshops and a pilot judicial service
delivery survey. Additionally, the recommendations of the Kwach Report on the
Administration of Justice (1999) were wholly adopted by the stakeholders, at the said
workshops. Further discussions with key persons in the Office of the Attorney General, the
Judiciary, the LSRCC secretariat, and legal training institutions, were unanimous that
accessibility, predictability and expediency were critical pillars to the reform process. In
tandem with the IPRSP the project will address issues that are specifically related to
expediting legal processes through pilot initiatives. The successful completion of these
pilots will then lead to replications. A condition precedent to the implementation of records
management/IT systems and recording of court proceedings, is that the GOK will have in
place requisite infrastructure. Discussions with other development partners indicate that
DFID has earmarked 3 million Pounds Sterling, over the next 3 years, EU has earmarked
6,000,000 Euros.
12 Includes Government contributions.



- 40 -
Record Management and IT systems
The focal point for this action will be the registry systems. They provide essential services
as they are the hubs of legal information. Since independence, the legal sector's collection
of documents has experienced tremendous growth, without a commensurate growth in the
capacity to handle the same. To date, legal registries use manual systems for registration,
storage and retrieval. Matters are further compounded by lack of space. As a result most
legal registries have become inaccessible to the users, due to perennial loss of files and
inability to retrieve data and information. The project will therefore seek to modernize
record management systems, including through automation as well as microfilming of
archival data. In order to take full advantage of the project budgetary allocations for this
component, the project will concentrate on three pilot registries at the Mombasa and
Machakos Law Courts and the Civil Litigation registry in the Office of the Attorney
General. Machakos offers a good model for a medium sized court that serves both an urban
and rural population, whereas Mombasa offers a model for a very commercially active
station that has registries serving right from the Court of Appeal to the Magistrates' courts.
The choice of civil litigation is based on the pivotal role that it plays in commercial disputes
involving the GOK. The pilot will later on be rolled out starting with the Nairobi Law
Courts, other High Court stations, and other registries in the OAG.
Recording of court proceedings
A major criticism of the Kenyan judicial process has been its slow and unpredictable pace.
Similar to the wider public sector, the judiciary suffers from understaffing especially in the
professional cadres as well as being steeped in a traditional and sometimes archaic manner
of doing things. An area in which a combination of these factors converges to bog down the
judicial process is that of court recording. The already overburdened judicial officers are
required to take down court proceedings in long hand and their record is the official record.
Additionally, issue has been raised with the objectivity of such proceedings, especially when
it comes to appeals. It is further estimated that 40-50% of the delays and the backlog in the
disposal of cases is attributable to the current manual system. The project will therefore
intervene through the introduction of sound court recording systems and capacity building.
This intervention will be carried out through pilots in the Court of Appeal, the Commercial
Court and the Disciplinary Committee of the Complaints Commission, in the Office of the
Attorney General.
Case management
Case management includes the supervision or management of time and events involved in
he movement of a case through the court system from the point of initiation to disposal,
regardless of the type of disposal. Case management emphasizes the sequencing and timing
of such events to enable expedient disposal while maintaining the courts ultimate authority
in the resolution of legal disputes. Kenyan courts have come under heavy criticism on the
case backlogs that plagues both the subordinate and the superior courts. From the onset it is
very important to acknowledge that a functional case management system and strategy must
bring in all the parties, i.e. the advocates, the prosecution, and the litigants. However
underpinning a successful strategy is the need for strong judicial commitment to, leadership



-41 -
for, and supervision of the process. The objective of this intervention will be to develop
systems and policies, that will ensure the equal treatment of all litigants before the courts,
and the timely disposal of each case consistent with the circumstances of the individual case.
In coming up with the strategy a consultative process involving the Judiciary, the Litigation
and Prosecution Departments of the Office of the Attorney General and Advocates will be
employed.
Law Review
The Legal Sector Reform Programme identifies the application of obsolete and sometimes
poorly conceived and designed laws as an impediment to justice. Under current law, all
Kenyan laws should be subject to periodic review. The Office of the Attorney General,
which is charged with the responsibility of law review, has not been able to undertake this
activity on a timely basis due to constraints on human and infrastructure capacity. Project
funds will be utilized to engage technical assistance to review the CAPs of the Laws of
Kenya, to procure ten computers and provide support to research organizations to enable
them to provide expertise for a number of specific law reviews. It is proposed that priority
will be given to reviewing those laws that directly impinge upon the operations of the public
sector and for which change is required to facilitate the implementation of the reform
programme.
Legal Sector Reform Secretariat
The rationale for establishing the Legal Sector Reform Programme Technical Committee is
to enable a comprehensive set of reforms to be implemented that encompasses a wide range
of agencies within and without the public service. If it is to operate efficiently and
effectively, the Technical Committee requires a full-time Secretariat. The project will
support the operations of a small Secretariat. This will include finance to re-employ a
suitably qualified Secretary to head the unit and an economist to provide additional
expertise. A small amount of equipment for the Secretariat will also be procured under the
project.
4. Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (US$ 3.4 million)13
Objective: To provide an efficient and effective coordinating body and process that support
the reform programme across ministries.
The Project will support the establishment and operation of a Public Sector Reform
Coordinating Unit (PSRCU) in the Directorate of Personnel Management in the Office of
the President. This support will provide the means to hire consultants for the duration of the
Project to head the PSRCU and to strengthen it through the provision of expertise in public
procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, as well as the development
and implementation of an Information, Education and Communications (IEC) strategy and
action plan responsible for the Information, Education and Communication component of
the project.
13 Includes PPF and Government contributions.



-42 -
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
(US$ million)__
Pr#jec i    iuponeut t!i;;; ;; pLotal4       F 4ir;:  i :    Total; :00 
Public Service Reform                3.6           4.5           8.1
Public Financial Management          4.2           2.5           6.7
Legal Sector Reform                  0.8           0.8           1.6
PSR Coordinating Unit                1.5           1.7           3.2
Total Baseline Cost    10.1          9.5          19.6
Physical & Price Contingency    0.5           0.4           0.9
Total Project Costs    10.6          9.9           20.5
Note: Amounts shown across each component excludes physical and price contingencies
3~sbur~epi~zi %Zaite.rrn         oc~7 Tota
Goods                                1.3           3.3           4.6
Services                             4.5           6.2           10.7
Training                             4.1           0.4           4.5
Operating Costs                      0.7            -            0.7
Total Project Costs    10.6          9.9           20.5



- 43 -
Annex 4: Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE



-44 -
Annex 5a: Financial Summary
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
FY 2002 7   FY 2003    FY 2004       Total
Project Costs (US$ million)   _           _
Investment Costs                         6.2         10.2         3.6       20.0
Recurrent Costs                          0.2         0.1          0.1        0.5
Total                    6.4          10.3        3.7        20.5
Financing Sources (% of Total)
IDA                                     77%          71%         70%        73%
Government                              23%          29%         30%        27%
Total                   100%         100%        100%       100%



-45 -
Annex 5b: Financial Assessment
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Project management. The Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (PSRCU), under the
Directorate of Personnel Management, Office of the President, will be responsible for
overall project management, including: (i) monitoring the progress of the project; (ii)
coordinating project activities; (iii) establishing and maintaining financial management and
procurement systems; (iv) Project Management Reports (PMR), including physical,
qualitative, financial, and procurement implementation progress, and (v) liaison with the
World Bank and other development partners. The PSRS has been implementing a Bank
funded Civil Service Reform project, and has gained experience in World Bank procedures
on disbursements, processing contracts and payments for goods and services. The project
has maintained a reasonably good manual accounting system that produces reliable annual
project financial statements. The project has submitted acceptable audit reports to the Bank,
although the reports have not been submitted on time.
Staffing. To monitor resources and expenditure, maintain the accounts and prepare the
required financial statements for the project, the PSRCU should have available adequate
number and mix of skilled and experienced staff who understand the relevant accounting
concepts and government financial regulations.
The Project Financial Officer/Accountant should have appropriately sound credentials and
experience in accounting to make good judgment on the maintenance of the books of
accounts and on the production of financial information. He/she should have clear
understanding of government accounting systems, regulations and requirements, and
exposure to international accounting practices and standards. The Accountant will work
closely with the Coordinator, the Head of Accounting Unit (DPM), as well as component
coordinators and the various implementing ministries and other partner agencies, to provide
project financial management, and other core services.
The project financial management system. Effective project management is essential to
monitor the achievement of project inputs, outputs, and impact, as well as to provide
financial accountability with due diligence to economy and efficiency, and to conduct
transparent procurement procedures in the award of contracts. The PSRCU head, in
conjunction with the Project Finance Officer (and in consultation with the Head of
Accounting Unit, DPM), will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and
reporting procedures for the project will be acceptable to the Bank. The Project Finance
Officer will be responsible for the entire financial management, accounting, and
disbursement functions of the project, including payments through the Special Account,
maintain accounts and make payments for eligible expenditures.
Successful implementation of the financial management action plan (below) will allow the
project to satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP10.02. The financial
management system would be able to produce a Project Financial Statement, including
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, Uses of Funds by Project Component, Project
Account Reconciliation Statement, Cash Withdrawal Statement, and Cash Forecast. The



- 46 -
Chart of Accounts would facilitate presentation of summary expenditures by Component,
Activity and Disbursement Category.
Project Accounting System. The PSRCU will develop a viable financial management
system including comprehensive manual of financial procedures, Chart of Accounts, and a
fully integrated project accounting structure, using appropriate accounting software. The
accounting system will provide data to measure performance when linked to the output of
the project. The Chart of Accounts will ensure availability of information required and
consistency in account classification. The Chart of accounts should be developed in a way
that allows project costs to be directly related to specific work activities and outputs of the
project, and consistency with expenditure categories in the Credit Agreement.
As part of actions required to meet requirements for PMR-based disbursement a dedicated
project accounting system to be used by the project will be developed, initially on
spreadsheet, and later using an appropriate accounting software. The project accounting
structure should be fully integrated to reflect the type of project, sources of funds, and the
relevant expense accounts, broken down into various types of expenditures for the project.
Internal Control. The internal control system should be able to ensure that financial
records are reliable and complete. It should ensure adherence to management policies,
orderly and efficient conduct and implementation of the project, and proper recording and
safeguarding of assets and resources.
Specifically, systems of internal control for the project should be designed to ensure that:
-  every transaction that should have been entered into the accounting system is
recorded;
*  no unauthorized transactions are recorded;
*  those transactions that are entered are analyzed and posted correctly;
*  source program, which control the operation of the accounting system (original entry
and subsequent analysis and postings), cannot be tampered with;
*  unauthorized access is denied;
*  assets of the project are neither misappropriated nor used in an uneconomical or
inefficient fashion;
*  management policies (in budgets, forecasts etc.) are complied with;
*  deviations from plans are noted, investigated and timely responses made;
* financial information is communicated in the most effective way so that those
entitled to it may maximize their use of it; and
*  the financial statements show a true and fair view.
Manual of financial procedures. The project financial management system will be
documented in the Manual of Financial Procedures, covering Financial Policies and
Procedures, Accounting and Internal Control Systems, Budgeting System, Procurement and
Contract Administration and Monitoring System, Financial Reporting, Flow of Funds, and
Auditing Arrangements. The Manual should contain statements and explanations of the
project's budgetary policies and procedures; describing responsibilities for budget



-47 -
preparation, adoption, execution, monitoring and reporting. In addition, the manual should
include a description of internal control and accounting system, management and flow of
funds, documentation and reporting requirements and formats, process, procurement
procedures, etc., for use by project management and other stakeholders. The manual, to be
based on the outline provided, and the chart of accounts was presented at Negotiations.
Disbursements, Replenishments and Documentation. Although it is desirable to have
PMR-based disbursement from the beginning of the Project, there is not in place a financial
management system that can provide the information required by the World Bank for the
LACI-Based Project Management Reporting (PMR) disbursement mechanism. Thus, in the
short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment (if appropriate),
will be followed. A financial management action plan has been discussed and agreed with
the PSRCU/DPM. Successful implementation of the action plan will ensure that the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements will be met; and facilitate the introduction of
PMR-based Disbursement within 18 months of Credit effectiveness. During the transition
period disbursement of funds would be made against Withdrawal Applications with full
documentation or against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) submitted by the Borrower.
Interim PMRs will, however, be produced, but will not be used for disbursement purposes.
Flow of Funds. To facilitate the flow of funds to the Project the Borrower will open bank
accounts as follows:
- A Special Account in US Dollars for IDA funds (to be managed by MoFP).
- Project Account in KES for Counterpart funds and eligible local expenditures.
Transfers from the Special Account will be deposited in the project account in accordance
with project objectives. Transfers from the Special Account to other implementing
ministries will be made from this account and will be through the imprest system, on the
basis of Sub-AlEs issued by the DPM/PSRCU, following submission of request for funds
based on approved work plans, together with accountability for previous advances, if any.
Once the necessary documentation is reviewed and approved by the Project Coordinator,
funds will be transferred from the Project Account to the implementing ministries/agencies
by issuing a check or bank transfer. Details on surrender of imprests issued to the
implementing ministries/agencies and accountability of the funds will be included in the
Manual of Financial Procedures.
The DPM/PSRCU has made progress in the implementation of the Treasury Circular No. 3
of March 2000 by opening a project account for the PPF. Special Exchequer requisitions
have been submitted to MoFP, based on the workplans, to trigger transfer of funds from the
off-shore Special Account, in accordance with the Treasury Circular. These funds will be
accounted for through submission of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) on a monthly basis.
The completion of a reimbursement cycle, from the time funds are transferred from the
offshore Special Accounts to the replenishment of the Special Accounts, should not take
more than 90 days; and DPM/PSRCU should develop a tracking system to ensure flow of
funds is closely monitored and delays minimized.



-48 -
Financial Reporting. Formats of the various periodic financial reports to be generated from
the financial management system should be developed; with clear linkages between the
information in these reports and the Chart of Accounts. The main reports should include
financial statements (e.g. sources and application of funds; expenditure classified by project
components and activities, disbursement categories, expenditure types, and comparison with
budgets; short-term forecasts of expenditure; etc.). The financial reports should be designed
to provide high quality and timely information to project management, implementing
agency, and various stakeholders on project performance.
Annual Financial Statements and Annexes for the Project will be subject to audit by
independent auditors, and submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal
year. The Project Financial Officer/Accountant, in consultation with the Coordinator and
DPM Head of Accounting Unit, will be responsible for preparing the project's quarterly and
annual program financial statements (cash forecasts and budgets). The quarterly cash flow
forecast (required under LACI) will be modeled on the suggested format of presentation
contained in the World Bank Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Handbook,
September 1998.
NB: Under the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), reports
produced on a quarterly basis to support requests for replenishment of the Special Account
should include the following:
*  Financial Statements: To provide information on the sources and uses of funds by loan
category and by project activity, forecasts of expenditure, amount of disbursement
requested and a reconciliation of the Special Account.
*  Project Progress Reports: To provide information on project implementation progress
in physical and financial terms using monitoring indicators, including identifying
deviations from plan and explaining reasons for such variations.
,  Procurement Management Reports: To indicate the status of procurement and
contract commitments and expenditure including source of supply data for contracts
subject to the Bank's prior review, as well as post-review contracts above a certain
threshold.
Audit Arrangements. In order to comply with Bank reporting requirements, annual
Financial Statements and Annexes for the project will be subject to audit by independent
auditors, and submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the fiscal year.
Annual audits will cover the Bank requirements for audit of the project accounts and review
of internal control systems, inter-alia, for reliability of PMRs; as well as review of
Statements of Expenditure. Audit reports on project financial statements, will include
separate audit opinion on the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure/Project
Management Reports, as well as a Management Letter, giving observations and comments,
and providing recommendations for improvement of accounting records, systems, controls
and compliance with financial covenants in the Development Credit Agreement.



- 49 -
Financial Management Action Plan
Issue/Problem               Remedial Action                 Due Date
1    Project              Project implementation arrangement     By Credit
implementation      refined and documented. Core Project   Effectiveness
arrangements.       Management Team on board.
2 (i) Staffing            Suitably qualified and experienced     By Credit
accounting staff should be deployed, and    Effectiveness, and
retained throughout the life of the project,  throughout project
to monitor the expenditures, maintain the   implementation
accounts and prepare required financial
statements for the project.
(ii)  Training and        Training program to be developed for   By Credit
Development         project staff - emphasis on financial  Effectiveness
management and accounting, information
systems and computer applications.
3 (i) Dedicated project   Project accounting system to be developed  By Credit
accounting system   to produce financial reports that show  Effectiveness
budgeted and actual costs, capable of
providing financial data to measure
performance and monitor expenditure:
-Initially spreadsheet-based, and later using
an appropriate accounting software     Within 12 months
of effectiveness
A Chart of Accounts should be developed,
(ii)  Chart of Accounts    to provide information that reflects type of
project, sources of funds, and the relevant   By Credit
expense accounts that is consistent with  Effectiveness
Expenditure Categories in the Credit
Agreement, Project components and Sub-
components, and project activities.
4    Manual of Financial   Comprehensive Manual of Financial     By Credit
Procedures          Procedures to be developed, describing  Effectiveness
accounting systems and procedures for the
project. Manual to include standards and
guidance for internal control and
accounting, with clear delegation and
segregation of duties; funds flow
processes; etc.
5 (i) Reporting           A reporting package for internal and   By Credit
arrangements -      external reporting should be developed in   Effectiveness
Internal Reporting    line with LACI/FINMI requirements, and
Procedures not in   documented in the Manual of Financial
place               Procedures.
(ii)  Validity of financial   Arrangements in place to ensure that  By Credit
reports             accounting records are maintained on   Effectiveness
timely basis, self balancing, and all
accounts reconciled at all times to ensure
accuracy and reliability.



- 50 -
IssuelProblem               Remedial Action                 Due Date
6 (i) Disbursement        Adequate financial management systems to  By Credit
Procedures:         be developed. Existing disbursement    Effectiveness
Current financial   procedures to be used.
management system
not suitable for PMR-
Based Disbursement
mechanism
(ii)  Conversion to PMR-  A fully integrated system developed, to  Within 18 months
based disbursement   keep track, collect and provide information  after effectiveness
on procurement, expenditure, source of
funds and outputs, measured by monitoring
indicators.
Project Management  Further assessment to be carried out by  Within 12 months
Reports             FMS to determine readiness for PMR-    of effectiveness
Based Disbursement.
Format of PMR to be agreed.           By Credit
_____                                                  Effectiveness
7 (i) Flow of funds to be    Successful implementation of Treasury  By Credit
streamlined.        Circular No. 3/2000. Benchmarks set for    Effectiveness
processing reimbursement claims to be
monitored and reported on.
(ii)  AlEs not received on  Treasury to issue AlEs on time, based on
time, thus affecting    printed estimates. Sub-AlEs to line  During
implementation of    ministries to be released on time, based on  implementation
work plans.         approved work plans.
(iii)  Monitoring &       Strict financial discipline required, with
Evaluation          monitoring arrangements and clear      Continuous
remedies for non-compliance with      process
established procedures.               during project
implementation
8 (i) Budgeting and       Written statements and explanations of  By Effectiveness
planning            budgetary policies and procedures to be
included in the Manual of Financial
Procedures.
Quarterly and annual program financial  During project
statements (budgets) to be prepared as  implementation
basis for spending funds.
(ii)  Budgetary Control.   Format and content of monthly, quarterly,   By Effectiveness
and annual financial reporting should be
documented.
Variance Analysis, with explanations for   During project
significant variations, to be part of periodic  implementation
management reports.



- 51 -
Issue/Problem               Remedial Action               lDue Date
9    Audit Arrangements - DPM/PSRCU to ensure quality preparation  October 31, 2000
past audit reports  and early submission of draft project
under the closed CSR  financial statements for audit. Form and
project submitted to   content to be in line with revised formats
the Bank late       issued by MoFP.
Audited project financial statements under  December 31,
CSRP to be submitted to the Bank, and  2000. Future audit
immediate action taken to resolve any audit reports due six
queries.                              months after end
of fiscal year.
10   Late payments to    A payment tracking system should be    By Credit
suppliers &         developed to track payments through all    Effectiveness
consultants, and    stages to ensure efficiency of the payment
delayed accounting of system. Clear benchmarks on surrender of
advances to line    advances issued to line ministries included
ministries          in the Manual of Financial Procedures.



- 52 -
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Preparation of procurement documentation will be carried out by the respective government
departments and units that are directly responsible for the components and sub-components
of the Project, and will be finalized under the coordination and supervision of the Public
Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (PSRCU) created within the Directorate of Personnel
Management (DPM). The responsibilities of the Implementing Departments and Units vis-
a-vis the role of the Project Coordination Unit in the procurement activities are defined
under para 6 of the Institutional Arrangements section of the PAD.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement of goods and works for all IDA-financed components will be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999). Consulting services by firm or individuals financed by IDA will be awarded
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1977 and January 1999). The
appropriate World Bank standard bidding documents will be used for all International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), and the World Bank's standard Request for Proposals (RFP) for
the selection of consultants.
Advertising
Two General Procurement Notices (GPN), one for consulting services and one for goods
and works, will be prepared for the PSRCU and published in the United Nations
Development Business (UNDB). The GPNs will be updated at least once a year and
submitted to IDA for review. GPNs will describe all outstanding ICB for goods and works
as well as consulting assignments.
Procurement Plan
A procurement plan has been prepared by the Borrower. The plan includes relevant
information on goods and consulting services under the Project as well as the timing of each
milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every
quarter and reviewed by IDA at each supervision mission.



- 53 -
Goods
The total cost of goods is estimated at US$3.3 million for the Project. Procurement will be
bulked where feasible into contract packages valued at US$ 100,000 equivalent or more and
will be procured through ICB procedures.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 0.45 million equivalent will be procured through NCB procedures.
Goods that are estimated to cost less than US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an
aggregate of US$ 0.19 million equivalent, may be procured through (International or
National) Shopping procedures in accordance with the Bank Guidelines, and/or through the
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP (IAPSO).
Services
The total cost of IDA-financed consultant services and technical assistance is estimated at
US$ 7.9 million equivalent for the entire Project. Except as detailed below, consulting
services will be selected through competition among qualified short-listed firms based on
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS).
Consultants for financial audits and other repetitive services estimated to cost less than US$
50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$ 200,000 equivalent, will be
selected through Least Cost Selection (LCS) method.
In exceptional cases when selection of consultants through competitive process is not
practicable, the borrower may, upon prior clearance with the Bank, hire consultants through
the single-source selection method stipulated in paras 3.8-3.11 of the Guidelines.
Consultants for services meeting the requirements of Section V of the Consultant Guidelines
will be selected under the provisions for the Selection of Individual Consultants (IC)
method. Individual Consultants will be selected through comparison of job description
requirements against the qualifications of those expressing interest in the assignment or
those approached directly.
To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national
consultants, short-list for contracts estimated under US$ 200,000 equivalent per contract
may be comprised entirely of national consultants (in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number of qualified
firms (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they
will not be excluded from consideration. The RFP as developed by the Bank will be used
for requesting proposals, and for selection and appointment of consultants. Simplified
contracts will be used for short-term assignments - simple missions of standard nature (i.e.,
those not exceeding six months) carried out by individuals consultants or firms.



- 54 -
Bank Reviews
Procurement of IDA-financed civil works and goods contracts estimated to cost US$
100,000 equivalent or more as well as consulting contracts of US$ 100,000 equivalent or
more for firms and US$ 50,000 equivalent or more for individual consultants will be subject
to prior review by IDA. However, the first two goods or works contracts and the first two
consultancy contracts, irrespective of their value will be subject to IDA's prior review. Post
reviews of contracts awarded below the above threshold levels will be carried out selectively
by IDA during supervision missions and/or by an independent procurement auditor. Terms
of Reference (TOR) for all consultancy contracts as well as all single source selections,
irrespective of the contract value, will be subject to prior review.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Exe,idit    C.g     ;<.g} ::;; ' i'- l;4;CB;    NS I' Others  Tota t hib" dng
Goods, Equipment & Vehicles      4.4       0.3                     4.7
(3.1)     (0.2)       -          (3.3)
Consultant Services                                  10.6         10.6
(7.9)        (7.9)
Training                                    -        4.5           4.5
(3.3)        (3.3)
Operating Costs                                      0.7           0.7
(0.5)        (0.5)
Total Project Costs   4.4      0.3       15.8         20.5
of which Funded by IDA    (3.1)    (0.2)     (11.7)        (15.0)



- 55 -
Table Al: Consultants Selection Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Consultant Services Expenditure           Selection Method                   Total
Category                           _
IC        QCBSLC         Others
A. Firms                                           5.9                        5.9
-           (4.3)          -           (4.3)
B. Individuals                       4.1                         0.6          4.7
(3.1)          -           (0.4)        (3.6)
Total                                4.1           5.9           0.6          10.6
(3.1)        (4.3)         (0.4)        (7.9)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
QCBS  =  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
LC      =  Least-Cost Selection
IC      =  Individual Consultants
Others  =  Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants' Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, Educational Institutions, etc.



- 56 -
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(US$ Million)
" xpenditure-S  Contrac Vau (Trsod); PlrocuemntMethd   Contlractsel
Categoiy                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~Subject to
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ,_                     _ _  _ _  _ _ _   P ri o   R e,vi,e w
1. Goods                  > US$100,000                 ICB          Prior review
Less than US$100,000           NCB           Post review
Less than US$30,000            NIS           Post Review
2. Services
Firms:      > US$100,000                QCBS           Prior review
Below US$ 100,000        QCBS/LC/Other    Post Review
Individuals:      >US$50,000                  IC           Prior review
Less than US$50,000             IC           Post review
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Average ,
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months
(including special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
An assessment of DPM's procurement capacity has been conducted, and a report has been
prepared. The report indicates "High" risk - unless a procurement consultant is engaged
- based on: (i) weaknesses in the current institutional and legal framework of GOK
procurement; (ii) the non-existence of procurement proficient staff at DPM; (iii) lessons
learned from the poor performance in procurement management under the recently closed
Institutional Development & Civil Service Reform Project; and (iv) conditions conducive to
corruption in procurement practices in the public sector.  However, the assessment
concludes that the employment of a procurement consultant as well as the enforcement of
the GOK new regulatory and institutional arrangements for public procurement will reduce
the procurement risk for this project to "average". The current capacity of DPM without
outside support would be inadequate to handle the procurement activities workload under
the project. Therefore, it was agreed during appraisal that a qualified procurement consultant
would be hired. The responsibilities of procurement consultant would include supervision
of all procurement activities under the project and provision of guidance to and capacity
building within DPM and other implementing agencies of the project components.



- 57 -
The procurement process of all goods and works contracts, and the selection of all
consultants under the project as well as the evaluation process of received bids and
proposals, will be carried out by the PCU and other project implementing agencies under the
direct supervision of the procurement consultant. This arrangement will mitigate the
procurement risk at the individual implementing agencies.
Many of the system-wide weaknesses revealed by the procurement capacity assessment and
listed above are being addressed under the on-going Procurement Reformn Program,
including: (i) enforcement of new, national public-procurement regulations together with
standard government bidding documents; (ii) the enactment of a comprehensive public
procurement law; (iii) staffing and operationalization of a newly approved Public
Procurement Department to oversee the implementation of public procurement and to
conduct procurement audits; and (iv) legalization of the appointment of a Procurement
Appeals Board. Finally, the Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority (KACA), as well as the anti-
Corruption and Economic Crimes Bill and the Public Service Code of Conduct and Ethics,
which are both currently before Parliament for debate and enactment are expected to
increase accountability in the area of procurement.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Ainount          Fimanuiing Percentage
US$ million
1. Goods, Equipment & Vehicles     3.1       100% of Foreig & 90% of local
2. Consultant Services & Training  8.7       100%
3. Operating Costs                 0.2       90% until June 30, 2002;
75% until June 30, 3003; and
60% thereafter
4. Refunding of PPF                2.0
5. Unallocated                     1.0
TOTAL       15.0



- 58 -
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Project Schedule                                Planned                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6 months              12 months
First Bank mission (identification)             3-Jul-2000           3-Jul-2000
Appraisal mission departure                    9-Sept-2000          27-Nov-2000
Negotiations                                  22-Mar-2001            9-Apr-2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  3 1-Oct-2001
A. Bank Staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                      Bank Unit        Speciality
Harry Garnett             AFTI2            Task Team Leader
Rob Floyd                 AFTI2            Operations Officer
Rey Castro                AFTI2            Operations Analyst
Jack Titsworth            WBIGF            Consultant
Florence Simbiri-Jaoko    Consultant       Legal Specialist
Said Al-Habsy             LEGOP            Chief Counsel
Pascale Helene Dubois     LEGOP            Senior Counsel
Kenneth Miller            LOAG2            Sr. Disbursement Officer
Dahir Warsame             AFC05            Procurement Specialist
John Nyaga                AFC05            Sr. Financial Management Specialist
John Ogallo               AFC05            Financial Management Specialist
Lucas Ojiambo             AFC05            Economist
Margaret Olale            AFC05            Disbursement Assistant
Lucie Muchekehu           AFCO5            Program Assistant
B. Project Preparation Activities
Key Outpts  Prepred By  esponsiility    Cst  Apprisal   Target Date
: *0~P000:;;00000 Respqnimliiy  ; cost                  APt     ;Tr=iD
_______.__:_______::0                           _    ;  f:0::    Requirement
Feasibility      Strategic Plan for   Government  _             NO        Completed
Studies          Public Sector Reform
Social           Pilot Service       Government                 NO        Completed
Assessment       Delivery Survey
Institutional    (a) Pilot Service   Government/                NO        Completed
Assessment       Delivery Survey         Bank
(b) Pilot Public
Officials Survey
Project          Draft to be prepared                           YES       Completed
Implementation    during appraisal
Plan (PIP)
Environment      Not applicable
Assessment                                           _



- 59 -
Annex 8: Documents in Project File
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
* Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2000-2003 - June 2000
* A Case for Digital Modernization of Government Services
* The Acceptance & Implementation of the Recommendations of the Harmonization on
Terms and Conditions of Service for Public Servants, Sessional Paper 2000 - May
2000
* Public Service Management and Employment Policy - June 1998
* Staff Retrenchment in the Civil Service - 23rd June, 2000
* Pilot Public Officials Survey, Final Report (Vol. 1) - The Executive Summary
*The Service Commissions Act (Chapter 185) - Revised Edition 1985
* Strategy for Public Sector Reform, Draft - November 2000
* Report of the Harmonization Commission on Terms and Conditions of Service for
Public Servants 1998/1999 - September, 1999
* Review of Proposals in the Draft Sessional paper on Recommendations of the
Committees to Review the Terms and Conditions for Civil Service and Uniformed
Services
X The High Fliers' Scheme in the Civil Service of Kenya (Vol. III) - October, 1998
* Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the
Republic of Kenya (Report No. 18391 -KE) - September 2, 1998
* Kenya Country Assistance Strategy 2001
* Implementation Completion Report on a Credit in the amount of SDRs 17.2 Million to
the Government of the Republic of Kenya for an Institutional Development and Civil
Service Reform Project (IDA-26710, Report No. 21363) - November 16, 2000



- 60 -
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
May-2001
Original Amount in                        Difference between expected
US$ Millions                           and actual disbursements
Project ID    FY                  Purpose                  IBRD    IDA    GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.               Orig         Frm Rev'd
P071196     2001   Emergencyenergycredit                  0.00     7200    0.00       0.00      22.89         -47.44           000
P070920     2001   HIVIAIDS Project (Umbrella)            0.00     50.00    0.00      0.00      44.67         -3.36            0.00
P070718     2001   Regional Trade Fac. Proj - Kenya       0.00     25.00    0.00      0.00      24.17          0.00            000
P069501     2001   Economic&PublicSectorReforn            000    15000    0.00        0.00      94.85         97.62            0.00
P066486     2001   Decentralized Repr. Health and HIV/AIDS    0.00  50.00    000      0.00      4790          0.00             0.00
P056595     1999   EMERGENCY INFRAS.REHAB                 0.00     40.00    0.00      0.00       12.74        14.64            0.00
P034180     1997   EARLY CHILDHOOD DEV                    0.00     27.80    000       0.00       16.56        12.46            000
P046838     1997   LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                     0.00     12.80    0.00      0.00       592           4.74            0.00
P046871     1997   LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                     0.00     9.80     9.80      0.00       7.28          6.32            0.00
P001217     1997   TANA RIVER PROJECT                     0.00     0.00     6.20      0.00       4.65         4.67             0.00
PW01344     1997   ENERGY SECTOR REFORM                   0.00    12500    000        0.00      81.72         90.67            0.00
P001354     1997   NARP II                                0.00     39.70    0.00      0.00       1328         -4.66            0.00
P001331     1996   ARID LANDS                             0.00     22.00    0.00      0.00       8.70         11.26            0.00
P035691     1996   NAIROBI MOMBASA ROAD                   0.00     50.00    0.00      0.00       12.31        14.16            0.00
P001319     1996   URBAN TRANSPORT                        0.00    115.00   0.00       0.00       25.58        13.S3            0.00
P001333     1995   SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED                   0.00     40.00    0.00      0.00       0.75          2.91            0.00
P001353     1994   MICRO & SMALL ENTERP                   0.00     21.80    D.00      0 00       14.03        15.31            14.84
TOTAL    0.00    850.90   16.00       0.00      438.01        232.69           14.84



- 61 -
KENYA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                 Disbursed
IFC                                  IFC
FY Approval                      Company                Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic
2000                        AEF AAA Growers                    0.49     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.49     0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                        AEF AAR Clinic                     0.00     0.50     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.50     0.00     0.00
1995                        AEF Bawan Roses                    0.20     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.20     0.00     0.00     0.00
1994                        AEF Capital Fish                   0.13     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.13     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                        AEF Ceres                          0.93     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.93     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                        AEF Deras Ltd.                     1.00     0.00      0.00    0.00      1.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                        AEF Equitea                        0.23     0.12      0.00    0.00      0.23     0.12      0.00    0.00
1992                        AEF Future Hotel                   0.28     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.28     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                        AEF K-Rep Bank                     0.00     1.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     1.00     0.00     0.00
1996                        AEF Landmark                       0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.33     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000                        AEF Lesiolo                        2.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
1998                        AEF Locland                        0.51     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.51     0.00     0.00     0.00
2000                        AEFMagana                          1.18     0.00      0.00     0.00     1.18     0.00      0.00    0.00
1997                        AEF Makini                         0.45     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.45     0.00      0.00    0.00
1999                        AEF Meru Ltd.                     0.50      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                        AEF Multi Hauler                   0.63     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.63     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                        AEF Redhill Firs                   0.21     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.21     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                        AEF Transenergy                    0.75     0.00      0.00    0.00      0.75     0.00     0.00     0.00
1999                        ANSPAR                             2.00     0.67      0.00    0.00      2.00     0.67     0.00     0.00
1997                        CFC                                10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1980/83/98                  DBK                                10.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      4.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
1982                        Diamond Trust                      0.00     0.80      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.80     0.00     0.00
1994/99                     EARC                               0.00     0.05      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.05      0.00    0.00
1998                        GBHL                               6.97     0.00     3.00     0.00      6.97     0.00     3.00     0.00
1982                        IPS(K)                             0.00     0.55     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.55     0.00     0.00
1986                        IPS(K)-Allpack                    0.00      0.31     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.31     0.00     0.00
IPS(K)-Frigoken                   0.00     0.06      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.06      0.00     0.00
1986                        IPS(K)-PremFood                    0.00     0.11      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.11      0.00    0.00
1986                        Intl Hotels-Ken                    4.29     0.00     0.00     0.00      4.29     0.00     0.00     0.00
1994                        K-Rep Bank                         0.00     0.43      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.12     0.00     0.00
1999                        Kenya Comm. Bank                  30.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      20.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999                        LIK                                0.00     0.03      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.03      0.00    0.00
1983/91                     Mabati                             7.00     0.00     4.50     0.00      7.00     0.00     4.50     0.00
2000                        Magadi Soda Co.                    4.20     0.00      0.00     0.00     4.20     0.00      0.00     0.00
1995                        Panafrican                         13.57    0.00      0.00    0.00      13.57    0.00      0.00    0.00
1970/74/77/79/81/88/89      TPS (Kenya)                        0.00     0.04      0.00    0.00      0.00     0.04      0.00    0.00
94196                       Tsavo Power                        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1972
Total Portfolio          98.35    4.67      7.50     0.00     79.85    4.36      7.50     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                Company                   Loan            Equity          Quasi              Partic
2001                 AEF Celinico                         0.23            0.00              0.00           0.00
2000                 AEF Eustoma Ltd                      0.38            0.00              0.00            0.00
1999                 AEF Greenland                        0.40            0.00             0.00            0.00
2000                 AEF Liki River                       1.00            0.00              0.00            0.00
2000                 AEF Twin Leaves                      1.00            0.00              0.00           0.00
1999                 CDSC Kenya                           0.00            0.00             0.18            0.00
2001                 KCB 11                               0.00            15.00            15.00           0.00
1999                 NIC                                15.00             0.00             0.00            0.00
Total Pending Commitment                    18.01           15.00            15.18              0.00



- 62 -
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Kenva     Africa   Income       Development diamond'
1999
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                        29.4       642     2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP oercaoita (Atlas method. USS)                      360        500       410
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       10.7       321       988                       T
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
PoDulation I%)                                          2.2       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                         3.2       2.6       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate flatest vear available. 1993-99)                                capita                       enroliment
Povertv (% of ooDulatlon below national Dovertv line)
Urban Dooulation 1% of total DoDulationl                32         34        31
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                        51         50        60
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live births)                76         92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51              23         32        43                Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source I% of oooulation)       53         43        64
Illiteracv t% of DoDulation aae 15+)                    19         39        39
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-aae ooDulation)   85         78        96            Kenya       Low-income group
Male                                                  85        85        102
Female                                                85        71         86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999       E                           _      -
Economic ratios-
GOP rUSS billions)                            6.2      8.3       11.5      10.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                18.1     20.6       14.6      13.5                     Trade
Exoorts of ooods and services/GDP            25.8     23.1       25.0      25.0
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                   12.3      13.2       7.0       8.9
Gross national savinas/GDP                   10.7      10.0      10.3      12.7
Current account balance/GOP                   -7.2    -8.1       -4.3      -3'1      Dome
Interest oavments/GDP                         1.7      2.4        1.5       1.4     Domestc        \             Investment
Total debtGDP                                43.6     70.3       58.6      64.8      Savings
Total debt servicelexoorts                   18.3     39.3       25.7      27.7
Present value of debtGDP                        ..      ..       45.1
Present value of debt/exoorts                  ..       ..    178.9
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(averaoe annual orowth)
GDP                                  4.0      2.2       1.6       1.3       3.5
GNP oer caDita                       0.3     -0.1      0.0       -1.1       1.2             Kenya       Low-income group
Exoorts oi ooods and services        3.0      1.6     -5.8        2.5       5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP()
1% of GDP)                                                                           20
Aoriculture                                  34.6     30.7       26.4      23.2      20
Industrv                                     19.9     18.9       15.8      16.2     10
Manufacturina                               12.3     11.6      10.4       10.7
Services                                     45.6     50.4       57.8      60.5      0            95   96    9
Private consumDtion                          68.5     68.9       76.6      73.6    -10
General oovemment consumDtion                19.2     17.9       16.4      17.5                    G01           GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                31.6     30.4       32.6      29.6
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averaae annual arowthl
Aoriculture                                   3.2       1.2       1.6       1.3    40
Industrv                                      3.7      2.0        1.4       1.0
Manufacturino                                4.7      2.5       1.4        1.0    20-
Services                                      4.9      3.5        2.0       1.6
Private consumotion                           3.8      2.6       -0.5       -6.5     0
General oovemment consumotion                 2.1       9.6       4.3       7.0
Gross domestic investment                     0.5      2.5        1.3       -4 0    -20
Imoorts of ooods and services                 -0.3     7.5       -4.4      -8.6    |Exports                   'Imports
Gross national Droduct                        3.9       2.6       2.4       1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comDared with its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomDlete.



- 63 -
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     19S9      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                               10.2      13.5       6.6       3.5      4
Implicft GDP deflator                          5.6      8.4        9.2       6.8 8t
Government finance                                                                   zo-_                         _     _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                0.0      25.5      26.6      24.0             94    95   96   97    98   99
Current budget balance                         0.0       2.5       2.5       1.2                   GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        0.0      -4.7       0.7      -1.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          1,128      913      2,012     1,755     4,000 -
Fuel                                         186        42       149       138
Coffee                                       302       153       212       172      3000
Manufactures                                 145       137       220       238
Total imports (cif)                          1,693    1,978      3,337     2,915     2000
Food                                          90  114   312   189  1,000 iiiu,d
Fuel and energy                              402      315        532       527
Capital goods                                341      497        896       708        0        94   9
Exoort pnce index (1995=1o0)                    72       81         99        85     1
ImDort Dnce index (1995=100)                   130      132         86        96                 *Exports      *Imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                          56       61        115        89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%
Exports of goods and services                1,571    1,905      2,849     2,600      3 T
Imports of goods and services                1,922    2,417      3,737     3,313
Resource balance                              -351     -511       -888   .713
Net income                                    -224     -244       -160      -180          93   94
Netcurrenttransfers                            124       79        557       564     1
Current account balance                       -451     -676       -490      -329     -3
Financing items (net)                          754      736        464       378
Changes in net reserves                       -303      -60         26       -49    -6
M^emo:
Reserves indudino oold /USS millions)          669      327        783       697
Conversion rate (DEC. localWSSI                7.5      20.6      60.4      70.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998     1999
(US5 millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2,718    5,862      6,724     6,894
IBRD                                        274       889        147        91                        A: 91
IDA                                          149      893      2,198     2,200                 G.85
Total debt service                             299      756        743       727                     a                 20
IBRD                                          34      150         84        70                                     8: 2,200
IDA                                            2        8         30        40         F: 857
Composiion of net resource flows
Officialgrants                               116      379        197       185
Official creditors                           189      384         19       -33
Private creditors                            205      163         41       262                                CW c: 135
Foreign direct investment                     84       62         11        18            E:2,000   -- -
Portfolio equity                               0        0          4         0                               D.752
World Bank program
Commitments                                  137      393          0         0      A-IBRD                      E-ailateral
Disbursements                                 61      245         84        77      B - IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           7       79         81        82      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     54      165          3        -5
Interest payments                             28       79         33        28
Net transfers                                 26       86        -30       -33
Development Economics                                                                                                    9/9100



- 64 -
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Policy from the Government of Kenya
REPLU3UCOF KENYA Ci  2. . 9  A IO: [ I
MINISTRY OF FINANCE*eA N N   - 
THE TREASURY,
Tekic Ad                 s                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P.O rBOX 3000;
Telegraphi Addes                             .')                                               NAIROAT
"FINANCE", Nai rCaobwi
Telephone: 338111           ~'1'-
When rplying isc qc1
Rc.f N.   Z.~71/01 l                 <c   s z - n  o   - Fts                      8"' May, 2001
Mr. James Wolfensohn,
President
World Bank
Washington DC
USA
Dear d11 4
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
LETTER OF SECTORAL POLICY: PUBLIC SEC2TOR REFORM
i.    Government is determined to reverse the rising trend in the incidence of poverty and
significantly reduce the number of Kenyans living below the poverty-line. A prerequisite in
achieving Ihis is the restoration of sustained rapid economic growth. Government is actively
recasting its policy framework to address the root problems of poor economic performance and to
provide a positive environment for private-sector development.  These reforms provide the
foundations for the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, which sets out a medium-term framework for
poverty-focused national development and renewed growth. A major, integral component of this
Strategy is comprehensive public sector reform to restore appropriate, effective and efficient public
service delivery to the people of Kenya.
2.    The goals of public sector reform are to implement policy priorities and core functions. These
activities are intended to:
a) Rationalize and reshape the public sector:
b) Restore efficiency and effectiveness, together with probity and integrity to the public service;
c) Provide an equitable, accessible and efficient rule of law.
d) Enhance accountability, strengthen the governance framework, and increase participation
through joint ventures between different levels of government and apportion responsibilities
accordingly.
3.     The public sector will concentrate on 'core' functions that best facilitate private sector
economic development, direct resources to reducing poverty, and provide for the basic social needs
of society, particularly the poor. The quality and productivity of expenditures and investment will
be improved to ensure cost-effectiveness and value-for-money.



- 65 -
3.    The public sector will concentrate on 'core' functions that best facilitate private sector
economic development, direct resources to reducing poverty, and provide for the basic social needs
of society, particularly the poor. The quality and productivity of expenditures and investment will
be improved to ensure cost-effectiveness and value-for-money.
THE FOUNDATIONS FOR PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM
4.    Since the commencement of the public sector reform program, considerable progress has
been achieved in reversing impropriety and improving govemance in the public service. Significant
steps have been taken to create more transparent public procurement procedures and financial
controls have been tightened throughout the service. Government has declared and is actively
implementing a policy of zero tolerance for corruption.
5.    Financial planning and budgeting processes are undergoing major changes through the
introduction of the MTEF to impose discipline into the planning and financial management of public
resources. At the same time, the public service reform programme to rationalize the service is
gathering pace. The first phase of staff reductions, involving 23,300 civil servants, has been
implemented and actions to improve performance are about to be introduced.  The Parastatal
Reform and Privatization programme is undergoing revision with a major policy shift that seeks to
promote public-private partnership in the running of major public infrastructure services. Local
authority financial standing is being stabilized through the transfer of central government tax
revenues.  These, and other such activities, are transforming the government's policy and
operational environment.
6.    The preparation and publication of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper represents a
watershed in development strategy. Not only is the focus for development now firmly on reducing
poverty but the manner in which the strategy is being developed marks Govemment's commitment
to engage civic society in meaningful dialogue when formulating policy. Both the policies
themselves and the on-going dialogue and consultation have significant implications for public
sector reforms and represent a catalyst for change. The articulation of the Strategy defines
Government's core activities and policy priorities providing the framework against which
organizational rationalization can be meaningfully implemented.
7.    Government is committed to sustaining the implementation of the reform programme. In
this regard, necessary financial and technical support will be sought from our development partners.
The World Bank funded Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project is one critical
element of this support. It will provide additional resources to enable Government to implement
priority reform policies and programmes. Considerable financial support for the on-going Civil
Service retrenchment programme has been obtained while discussions are underway on additional
support for wider Public Service reforms. Several multi- and bi-lateral development panners have
indicated their willingness to support areas of reform, including public enterprise and privatization,
local government, legal and judicial sectors as well as public service and budget and expenditure
management.
2



- 66 -
REFORM PRIORITIES
8.    The main thrusts of the reform programme are described below. Alongside these reforms,
Government will maintain prudent macro-economic management to (a) maintain a stable fiscal and
monetary stance (b) reduce the tax burden and (c) reduce the share of public expenditures relative to
GDP while maintaining real expenditure at current levels. Primary budget surpluses will reduce
domestic debt and provide favorable interest rates.
9.    To improve public service delivery through the reform of the structure and organization of
the public service together with improved management and enhanced productivity, the Public
Service Reform will:
a) Rationalize the public service to reflect well-defined core functions:
i) Rationalize Statutory Boards;
ii) Prepare and implement exit plans for all functions to be divested from public service
through abolition, privatization and contracting-out;
iii) Undertake necessary staff reductions through natural attrition and other staff
rationalization initiatives.
b) Develop strategies to implement the Kipkulei Harmonisation Report recommendations to
increase real incomes for public servants within an affordable wage bill:
i) Pay structure to attract and retain well qualified and motivated staff;
ii) Remuneration linked to qualification, skills and performance;
iii) Merit-based appointment and promotion;
iv) Consider options for accelerated enhancement for critical managerial, professional and
technical cadre; and
v) Introduction of a performance-based appraisal and compensation scheme.
c) Implement an effective Integrated Personnel and Payroll Data system throughout the civil
service and teachers service to provide timely and effective staff control and management
mechanism. It is expected that once the IPPD is fully operational, it will be linked to the
Integrated Financial Management system and other computer-based accounting and audit
systems.
d) Modernize personnel policy and management through the introduction of results-oriented
management to improve staff productivity and service delivery through results-oriented
management.
e) Develop and implement a comprehensive plan for capacity building and training to re-equip
the civil service with increased capacities to implement core functions and provide senior
staff with managerial skills.
10.   Based on lessons learned, the Government is committed to extend the reforms to the whole
public sector, while ensuring that service provision is not compromised. Savings from a reduced
workforce, more efficient operations and lower running costs will be matched against increased staff
3



- 67 -
remuneration, allocations to operations and maintenance, expansion of basic services and public
capital investment.
It.   To impose discipline into the planning and management of public resources by establishing
strong links between resource availability and policy priorities with budget allocations and
expenditures, the Budgeting and Financial Management Reforms will:
a) Consolidate and institutionalize the Medium Term Expenditure Framework through:
i) Improving macro-economic forecasting leading to better fiscal strategies;
ii) Strengthening the operation of Sectoral Working Groups to develop sectoral and
ministerial priorities within hard ceilings;
iii) Ensuring expenditure allocations are justified by measurable outputs, cost norms and
performance benchmarks;
iv) Ensuring all public expenditures are on-budget;
v) Building a comprehensive, integrated budget management system with continual
monitoring mechanisms that is linked to IFMS and IPPD;
vi) Undertaking necessary training and capacity building in Treasury and line-Ministries
vii)Undertaking regular Public Expenditure Reviews to provide analysis of expenditure
patterns and improve resource management.
b) Enhance accounting and audit procedures for all public expenditures through:
i) The review of the legislative framework to refine financial management procedures;
ii) Installation of the Integrated Financial Management System in line ministries and
districts;
iii) Enhancing fiduciary transparency, improving the quality and timeliness of audit reports
and the extension of the auditing role of C&AG to all public agencies;
iv) Increased autonomy of C&AG's office and merger of external audit functions of
Government into a National Audit Office with appointment of appropriate professional
staff;
v) Developing and implementing comprehensive training and capacity building for
accounting staff, auditing staff and financial managers.
vi) Establishment of ministerial audits committees.
12.   Government is committed to deepening and accelerating its Public Enterprise Reform and
Privatization programme. Government recognizes that this will be best realized by seeking Public-
Private Partnerships to develop infrastructure services. The timing of disposals and share flotation
will take cognizance of the absorptive capacity of the local financial markets. In addition,
Govemment recognizes that there have been concems about the transparency of the implementation
of the Programme to-date. Steps have already been put in place to publicize future privatizations
and their tendering procedures.
13.   Ensuring a predictable and impartial justice system able to operate a timely, accessible and
responsive legal service will be pursued through the Legal Sector and Judicial Reform programme.
Main elements include:
a) Judicial Reforms;
b) Implement recommendations on modernizing Companies Registry;
c) Undertaking the review of a wide range of legislation, including company and commercial
law;
4



-68 -
d) Establishing Alternative Disputes Resolution mechanisms, including commercial arbitration
systems and Small Claims Court;
e) Establishing additional Divisions of the High Court;
f) Improving courts record management by installing computerized records systems in the
AG's Chamber and developing case flow management systems and strategies;
g) Improved and expanded court facilities and infrastructure;
h) Develop and implement training and capacity building programmes for all legal sector
institutions and strengthening initial and continuing legal education initiatives;
i) Develop and implement legal and paralegal capacity building programmes in the office of
the Attorney General, particularly in the legislative drafting department;
j) Acting upon the recommendations of the Commission into the Land Law System to provide
an efficient and equitable land law framework.
14.   Enhanced economy, integrity, transparency and accountability of public procurement will be
promoted through improved procedures for the procurement of public goods including:
a) Public Procurement Act in force
b) Establishment of a Public Procurement Directorate
c) Revised procurement regulations
d) Establishment of an appeals process
15.   A central requirement identified in all components of the Reform Programme is building
capacities and training to equip the Public Service with the technical and managerial skills required
in a modem service. In this regard, Government intends to strengthen the capacity of the Kenya
Instilute of Administration to provide high quality management training for the public service.
Where necessary, Government will seek assistance from Kenyan experts and our development
partners to develop courses and upgrade the teaching faculty. Other local institutions and resources
will also be employed to build technical and specialist capacities within Government.
16.  In the drive towards operational efficiency, full advantage must be taken of the opportunities
provided by electronic information and data handing technology. In order to do so, there is need for
co-ordination, compatibility and a degree of standardization between systems, equipment and user
training requirements throughout the public service. Therefore, Government will prepare and adopt
an Information Technology Strategy to provide the technical framework, institutional arrangements
and necessary integration of computer and other electronic hardware and software.
17.  In order to generate wider participation, there is need to mount a sustained and effective
strategy for Information, Education and Communication. Such a strategy would seek to inform and
educate the general public on the goals, justification, implementation programmes and progress of
the reforms themselves. The full range of public media would be utilized. The strategy would also
have an important role to pay in extending knowledge and awareness among those responsible for
implementing the reforms and so reinforcing co-ordination between components.
18.   Further development and implementation of the various reform components requires careful
co-ordination if integration and the potential benefits of synergy are to be reaped. A sub-committee
of Cabinet provides policy direction and guidance to the reform process. Responsibility for overall
5



- 69 -
co-ordination lies with the Co-ordinating Committee of Permanent Secretaries and Authorized
Officers, chaired by the H-ead of Public Service. Day-to-day working level co-ordination between
reform 'streams' will be undertaken by the recently established Public Sector Reform Co-ordinating
Unit (PSRCU).  Appropriate technical secretariats or units have been set up in the relevant
Ministries and departments to oversee the reform programme within each component. The Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Project will be implemented within this institutional
framework. The Permanent Secretary/Director, Directorate of Personnel Management, reporting to
the Head of Public Service, has been designated the Accounting Officer for the project. A Project
Steering Committee made up of those Accounting Officers with immediate responsibility for the
project's components will ensure overall coordination while a dedicated professional team will be
created in the DPM to provide support to Component Co-ordinators, monitor implementation, and
ensure adherence to financial and procurement procedures.
CONCLUSION
19.   While the Government is fully committed to the implementation of the policies and actions
outlined in this letter, the collaboration and continued support of our development partners will be
essential. Thus, the Government is appreciative of the joint initiative with the World Bank to
establish a line of credit to facilitate the implementation of the activities contained in the Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Project. Available funds will be drawn upon judiciously,
and in accordance with the Project documentation, to obtain the expertise and equipment required to
move the reform programme forward. The Government looks forward to continued cooperation and
collaboration with the World Bank and other development partners so that the vital reforms to our
public sector can be carried out in a considered but expeditious manner.
Yours  f. ms
Hon. Chrysanthus Okemo     m
MINISTER FOR FItCE
6



- 70 -
Annex 12: Lessons Learned From the Predecessor Institutional Development and
Civil Service Reform Project
KENYA: Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
Numerous lessons could be drawn from the experience gained from this project but five
stand out and the first four are closely linked: i) the importance of Government commitment
and leadership to see such projects through to a successful completion; ii) the importance of
the institutional arrangements for managing the reform process, of which the project is but a
part; iii) the importance of a comprehensive policy design that embraces all the elements or
functions of governnent that are germane to the attainment of the key objectives; and iv)
proper sequencing to ensure that reform is planned and implemented in a logical order with
as little counter-productive activity as possible. The fifth is the importance of ensuring the
adequacy of the procurement structure and practices that are an essential pre-requisite to
timely and effective project execution. The rest of this section will elaborate on these five
points.
Government commitment during project design and implementation is essential.  Its
importance cannot be overstated, and commitment should be manifest in several respects.
Insufficient commitment was a major factor underlying the implementing of policies (e.g.,
increasing the size of the Teachers' Service and awarding a high pay rise to teachers) that
contradicted the essential purpose of the project-to achieve cost containment through the
reduction of the govermnent wage bill in order to facilitate the cost-effective delivery of
services to the public. The Project thus contributed little in this respect. It should be evident
early on, who, at the political level, are the champions responsible for projects with such
wide-ranging political ramifications. Then the overall managerial responsibility for the
project should be assigned to someone who clearly has the political backing, the authority,
the stature and the means to carry it out. Furthermore, one must ensure that the key
institutional players are involved in and committed to the process from the beginning (the
Presidency including the Department of Personnel Management (DPM) and the Civil
Service Reform Secretariat (CSRS), the Ministry of Finance and others). Given the wide-
ranging scope and the consequences of a project such as this, it should be entrusted only to
the most senior and competent of managers, within the right institutional setting, and with
the authority and influence to see it through. Vested interests should be excluded from the
design of reform, i.e., people are unlikely of their own volition to reform themselves out of a
job.
Appropriate institutional arrangements are crucial for managing the reform process.
Experience in Kenya and internationally demonstrate the crucial importance of the
institutional arrangements for managing the reform process. "Reform does not happen on its
own. It requires drive from individual champions, supported by appropriate co-coordinating
arrangements that broaden the base of reform by involving the key players. The quality of
the arrangements has important consequences at every stage of the reform process: design
and adoption, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. It also influences significantly
both the continued ownership of, and commitment to, reform. Reform activities should be
mainstreamed from the beginning- involving all the players from the highest political



- 71 -
level, through senior public service management, to the professional and technical levels."'14
In Kenya, "the key economic reformers have been confined largely to the Finance and
Planning Ministries and the Central Bank of Kenya. It is much easier for this group to
handle reforms in their own areas- fiscal and monetary policy, financial sector
management, public debt, price controls, exchange and trade policies- than it is to deal
with structural issues... or institutional capacity-building across government. For success in
these areas, they require sustained support from counterparts in other Ministries and
Departments. And this support did not develop as hoped for,...the political class within
government appears to have preferred guarding its options and not lining up squarely behind
the reforrns. One reason may be the inadequate consultation process; another may be the
fact that sector Ministers and their staff seldom see the direct benefits of donor support in
the form of additional resources for their own Ministries. ...Other times the lenders or
donors may have aligned themselves with well-intentioned technocrats who wished to
achieve the results contracted for but lacked the political support to do so. It is our view,
therefore, that donor aid can have an influence on the form of agreement reached, and on the
agreed timetable for implementation, but whether implementation is carried out depends in
the end much more on domestic political and economic factors than on donor money."' 5
The Bank's supervision mission in October 1998 understood well these dynamics in Kenya
and, drawing upon international best practice, proposed the establishment of a four-tier
institutional arrangement for the management of public sector reform in Kenya:
1. A Cabinet Committee on Public Sector Reform to provide strategic leadership and
direction, to make recommendations on the key reform measures across the entire public
sector to the full Cabinet, and to monitor progress with reform implementation (it was
understood that such systematic and continuous involvement of a significant number of
Cabinet Ministers with the main thrust of reform, including decisions on rewards and
sanctions for good and bad performance, would send a powerful message of strong
govemment ownership and commitment).16
2. A National Steering Committee on PSR: This Conmmittee already exists; it is at the
permanent secretary level and is chaired by the Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of the
Public Service. It has hitherto focused almost exclusively on civil service reform. Its
remit should be expanded to cover other PSR programmes that would not report directly
to the Cabinet Committee.
3. Refonn Secretariats: Each distinct reform programme, such as MTEF, should have an
inter-ministerial secretariat to provide technical direction and guidance, and ensure
effective co-ordination of reform efforts.
4. Reform Implementation Committees or Performance Improvement Teams: Should be
established at the levels of ministries, departmnents, provinces and districts with
functions and composition determined in accordance with the current medium-term
strategy.
14 World Bank Aide Memoire for the October 1998 supervision mission for the Project.
15 F.S. O'Brien and T.C.I. Ryan, Aid and Reform in Africa: Kenya Case Study, August 27, 1999.
16 In Kenya, there exists a Cabinet Committee entitled the "Economic Consultative Forum,' chaired by His
Excellency the President. Perhaps it could play the suggested role although, during the life of the Project, it
did not.



- 72 -
If such a structure had been in place and working in the early 1990s, with clearly
demarcated responsibilities and accountabilities, and with a transparent and effective means
of monitoring and reporting results to the public, it might well have assured a more coherent
and effective implementation of public sector reforms over the last decade.
The importance of a coherent policy design should be underscored The Civil Service
Reform Programme (1993/97) (CSRP) was initially implemented as a stand-alone
programme with weak links to longer-term expenditure planning. Given that containing
growth of the wage bill was critical for consolidating fiscal and financial stability as well as
improving the management of public resources and redirecting support to non-wage
activities in the social sectors, the design of the reforms could have been more effective in
capturing the main factors affecting the government wage bill. For example, the staff
reduction and pay reform content of the civil service reform programme excluded teachers
who are under the personnel policies of the Teachers' Service Commission. Thus, while
Civil Service numbers were being reduced, the numbers of teachers being hired, and their
pay, were being increased. Civil service numbers fell by 21.4 per cent whilst the Teachers'
Service numbers rose by 21.8 per cent between 1992/93 and 1997/98. Thus the gains from
reducing the size of the civil service were offset by increases in the wage bill for the
teachers. A coherent (politically supported) personnel and pay policy covering all public
sector employees would have avoided this conflict.
Proper sequencing is essential. The project was prepared in support of the overall, 1992,
CSRP and Action Plan, the implementation of which had already begun when the project
became effective. Under the CSRP's Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS) some
30,000 staff in the lower grades exited the Service and about 1 3,000 from the same grades
had left through natural attrition by 1996. The VERS was carried out rather well from an
administrative point of view, but its voluntary nature led to retrenchment's depriving some
ministries of critical skills or services. For example, the Ministry of Health has had to re-
employ some 3000 personnel. Optimum staffing levels were not determined in advance nor
were critical skills identified, and the decision was taken not to "ring-fence" critical
personnel.
Then the rationalization programme initially progressed very slowly for want of incentives.
There was reluctance on the part of, especially, the technically oriented ministries, e.g.,
Health, which had already embarked on their own rationalization projects before the
implementation of CSRP, to abandon their pre-CSR programmes in which they had invested
heavily. Indeed, the process appears to have been started without proper planning, which
may explain in part why reorganization of the ministries on the basis of which functions
they would retain, and identifying those to be privatized and commercialized, came much
later. Ministerial rationalization was linked to the assumption that the civil service was
overstaffed and therefore, one of the targets of rationalization was retrenchment of staff.
This was done, however, without considering the peculiarities of individual ministries, or
establishing staffing norms. Furthermore, the rationalization of individual ministries was
started before they had established their core functions. This explains in part some of the
difficulties experienced with rationalization; the core functions of government should
ideally have been identified first.



- 73 -
In 1999, Government, on the basis of eight newly defined core functions, reduced the
number of ministries from 27 to 15. This reduction disrupted the rationalization process that
had already begun in some ministries. During the merger of ministries, departments at
different stages of rationalization found themselves in the same Ministry. The re-grouping
made some ministries too amorphous to be effectively managed.
Ideally, if the urgency of containing growth in the wage bill had not been so overwhelming,
the reform sequence ought to have been: the identification of core functions of government,
ministerial rationalization based upon functional analysis, determination of optimal staffing
norms and numbers, and then well-administered, targeted retrenchment.
Public procurement practices are essential to projects being executed on schedule. The
execution of the Project was to be carried out through the Department of Personnel
Management (DPM) in the Office of the President in collaboration with several other
ministries and departments. The institutional arrangements for procurement were not set out
in the Development Credit Agreement; initially they were centralized within DPM and later
they were decentralized. In the absence of a formal structure agreed to by all participants at
the beginning, neither approach worked very well. One could not possibly schedule project
activities with any degree of reliability under such circumstances, and the management of
procurement was responsible for several lengthy delays in project implementation. One
should ensure then, when several Government ministries or departments are responsible for
project implementation, that the institutional arrangements for the management of the
project set out an effective structure and processes for the procurement function.



I



MAP SECTION






IBRD 261 5OR
SUDANij
To Kopoefo .t .
.......                              KENYA
To Addis Ab3bo                                           tM/ D
RT X                 Turkona                                                                                  MAND
< :                  VALLEY                                     EASTERN
0                                                   
z
t APOKOX \ ) ~~~~SAMBURU 
0  0  ~  \ _, lb Gi e 0
so ~ ~ ~~oo
XA~~~ZI  ET 
i,                     ~~~~~~~~RIFT   /                      OI 3nKITUI                                                  
T. Torime                                                                                                  T     ANA RtVER  I \\
\*<   ~~~VA LEYt                                                     COAST  W>U 
O MAJORTOWNS 
(NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                            TAuh   4  \/J.- 2- .: 'Ihn -
MAIN ROADS                                                              \ TAT                   KtF                   r         '.,-.
NATIONAL AIRPORTS                                     ,O                                                                          -N.
I NTERNATIONAL AIRPORTSoruh                                     11t                   ,     q            1t            SUtDAN '
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                     '_ too                   - 2OCM*meleNJ
O                TOO T00   15      081odrs                      '<'t(".                  KENYA  j 
This map was prepared by the Map Unit of the World Bank.             50             1OOMil                                                  RUNDI
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                      To Es        R09-an
shown on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptonce of such boundaries.
MAY 1997



