Report No. PID9361
Project Name                     Kenya-Public Sector Management (@)
Technical Assistance Credit
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other Public Sector Management
Project ID                       KEPE66490
Implementing Agency
Address
Directorate of Personnel Management
Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Mr. James E.O. Ongwae
Tel: 254-2-230653
Fax: 254-2-210192
Email: agpsd@africaonline.co.ke
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 20, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         November 2000
Projected Board Date             February 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Government recently completed a draft Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper for 2000-2003. The IPRSP has five basic components and policy
objectives:n To facilitate sustained economic growthn To improve
governance and securityn To increase the ability of the poor to raise
their incomesn To improve the quality of life of the poorn To improve
equity and participationThe IPRSP notes that the country's macroeconomic
strategy aims at progressively increasing real per capita GDP growth,
while keeping inflation below 5 percent, gradually increasing foreign
exchange reserves, and maintaining the current account deficits at
sustainable levelsGovernment makes good governance a cornerstone of the
IPRSP, with particular focus on the overall public sector reform program
and strengthening the operational capacity of the Kenya Anti-Corruption
Authority (KACA). Government is committed to taking the steps necessary
to combat corruption, increase the transparency of procurement procedures,
and increase the effectiveness of accounting and auditing procedures
through the introduction of an Integrated Financial Management System.
Two bills aimed at enhancing integrity and honesty in the public service
have been presented to Parliament for debate and enactment: Public
Service Code of Conduct and Ethics Bill, 2000 and Anti-corruption and
Economic Crimes Bill, 2000. The reform program also seeks to strengthen
the Office of Controller and Auditor General through rationalization of
its functions and increased capacity.The government has undertaken a
functional rationalization of ministries, departments and other public
agencies against national and sectoral objectives. The expected staff
reduction as a result of Ministerial rationalization is 48,826 civil
servants over the next two years. (This number includes both retrenchment
and natural attrition). While the government intends to restore
merit-based recruitment and promotion of public servants and to set
service delivery targets against which good or poor performance will be
linked for rewards and sanctions respectively, Government also intends to



establish a comprehensive, viable and motivating pay and benefits policy
for its staff. Capacity building and training of public servants will be
undertaken through a medium to long-term programme to re-equip the public
service with knowledge and skills to fulfill its new mandates.In a bid to
improve law and order and public safety, the government will undertake a
number of reform actions that should lead to increased transparency in and
accessibility to dispensing justice. This will include finalization of
the on going comprehensive review of legal sector, covering the Office of
the Attorney General, the Judiciary, Ministries of Lands and Settlement,
Agriculture and Health, and legal education institutions. A process will
be established to examine the desirability of creating a Ministry of
Justice The scope of court divisions will be expanded to include well
functioning civil, commercial, and family divisions in key cities
throughout the country.
2. Objectives
The development objective of this Technical Assistance Credit is to assist
Government in improving the capacity of public service institutions for
better service delivery.    The project will seek to enhance the capacity
of the public service to effectively and efficiently play its part in the
economic and social development of the country. The reform programme will
create a leaner, more focused and better equipped public service that
embraces transparency and accountability, openness and dialogue, and is
committed to professional excellence and discipline. The project will
also support the improvement of the performance of the judiciary and other
legal sector institutions to ensure a more rapid, fair and honest justice
system. The International Development Association will provide
approximately X% of the estimated project funding, or US$25 million. The
project is designed for a four-year implementation time frame.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA staff have played a catalytic role in the preparation of this program
through their involvement with the Institutional Development and Civil
Service Reform Credit that closed in June 2000. The Bank has, in addition
to financial support, drawn attention to good African and international
practices and lessons learned, and provided technical expertise. The Bank
also plays a facilitating role with donors in support of the public sector
reform process. Likewise, Bank experience with public sector reform
projects in other countries will add substantial value to the reform
process in Kenya. This particularly applies to the conceptual design of
different components of the program. The proposed design herewith
reflects lessons learnt from other projects, in particular the need
to:Take a strategic, integrated approach which is based on a clear vision
of the role, mandate and operational objectives of the reformed public
sectorAppropriately time and sequence different components of the reform
agendaBuild strong stakeholder commitment during the project preparation;
and toEffectively integrate ongoing PSM activities of other donors.
4. Description
Public Service Reforms
Public Financial Management
Legal Sector Reforms
Procurement Reform
PSR Coordinating Unit
-2-



Global Distance Learning Center
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT
IBRD
IDA                      25.0
Total Project Cost       25.0
6. Implementation
The implementation arrangements for this project will be led by the
Director of the Department of Personnel Management (DPM) in close
consultation with other permanent secretaries. Each component of the
reform program will have a reform secretariat. Government has established
a Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (PSRCU) that would be responsible
for overall coordination, monitoring and evaluation. The PSRCU will also
be responsible for reporting to the DPM on implementation progress, and
financial accounting. Furthermore, the Coordinating Unit will provide
on-demand technical assistance to the reform secretariats. (See Diagram
below). The DPM Director will serve as accounting officer for the overall
reform program, reporting directly to the Head of the Public Service and
to Parliament, as required. The details of the implementation
arrangements will stress that each project component secretariat would be
fully responsible for ensuring effective implementation of reform measures
in its sector or project component/sub-component. Each component of the
project would be implemented according to terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.   These would generally provide the basis for time-bound
action plans. Training and capacity building activities will be carried
out according to agreed timetables either with government training
institutions or through contracts awarded from open bids. A detailed
implementation plan will be agreed upon between the Government and the
Bank before project effectiveness. The implementation plan will be
regularly updated and submitted to the Bank for discussion during project
implementation.As shown in the diagram on implementation arrangements,
effective and efficient implementation of project activities would be
directed and guided at both the political (Cabinet/Minister) and
technocratic (Head of Public Service, PSs and other Accounting Officers)
levels. Keeping the institutional arrangements simple while ensuring
participation and providing for clear lines of accountability is the
challenge that the Appraisal Mission team would have to address, in
consultation with GOK counterparts. In particular, it would be necessary
to spell out clearly the respective roles of the different key players in
the implementation process. Project records and accounts will be
maintained by qualified financial officers to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures for each project activity in accordance with
sound accounting practices. The accounts will be consolidated annually
into financial statements for the whole project. Supporting documentation
will be made available to the Bank's Task Team Leader. For expenditures
incurred on the basis of Statements of Expenses, all records providing
evidence for such expenditures will be retained by the implementing
organization for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Special
Account was made. The control environment of implementing agencies will
be assessed and appropriate accounting and reporting systems will be
developed according to Operational Policy requirements through separate
-3 -



technical assistance. (See Annex 6a on Project Financial Management,
Accounting and Auditing for more details).The implementation arrangements
will be revisited on a regular basis to take into account technical and
political changes as well as progress within the overall public sector
reform effort. Each World Bank supervision mission will review the
implementation arrangements with the Government and other contributing
donors to suggest improvements or changes as necessary.
7. Sustainability
The Institutional Development and Civil Service Reform Project (Credit
2671-KE) that closed on June 30, 2000 was extended for a final nine months
in September 1999 because of the strong evidence of Government commitment
to tackle the problems of inefficiency and corruption in its public sector
institutions. Some of the actions already implemented include the
reduction in the number of ministries from 27 to 15 and making Accounting
Officers in ministries and departments fully responsible for managing the
finance and personnel functions; removal of corrupt and/or inefficient
managers from leadership positions in several ministries and
parastatatals. A Medium Term Expenditure Framework has been introduced to
ensure that government budgets are effectively related to policy
priorities over a three-year time frame. Government has also prepared a
retrenchment plan to be implemented during FY2000/2001 and 2001/2002.
Sustainability of the reform program will depend upon continued commitment
of the political and technocratic leadership teams and the cascading of
support to middle management officers and throughout the entire public
service. Likewise, sustainability over the longer term will be predicated
on ownership of long term reforms at all levels of the machinery of
government and building adequate local capacities for improved service
delivery.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Important lessons have been learned from the past seven years of
Bank-financed public sector reform in Kenya. These lessons highlight the
need to:Continue to identify and further refine the core functions of
governmentImplement recommendations on rationalization of ministerial
structuresimprove the capacity of managers and professionals in the public
service ensure political support for reforms at the highest levels. Other
lessons point to the need to establish linkages and phasing of reforms.
One of the most important lessons has been the importance of having an
effective senior management structure and clearly defined roles of
Permanent Secretaries in guiding the implementation of reforms.Equally
important are some global lessons for public sector reform.Shift focus
from the content of public policy to the way policy is implemented.
Address a broad range of mechanisms to promote public sector reform. (To
include improved financial management, retrenchment, strengthening the
legal framework and the rule of law)Emphasize a participatory approach and
broad-gauged ownership of the reform process. (Attention to this lesson
in the preparation of this project is reflected in Government's active
role in project preparation).Lessons learned from other projects,
particularly public sector reform projects, and captured within
documentation from previous project preparation include:A long term,
strategic approach to technical assistance which is not donor driven is
needed to achieve sustainable results. Previous projects were
predominantly focused on achieving macroeconomic targets. In most cases,
these efforts failed to provide enough room or sufficient time for a
- 4 -



complex reform agenda which is based on institutional development and
capacity building. A strong discipline for the implementation process
needs to be established to ensure progress towards long term objectives
and a constant re-assessment of all significant project elements.
Previous public sector reform projects have failed because of insufficient
control mechanisms and a weak project implementation,More attention needs
to be paid to assuring frequent monitoring of the quality of technical
assistance outputs to measure the overall performance of a project.
Performance indicators which focus more on quality, process and behaviour
are needed.Local champions who know what they want and know how to operate
in the given environment are important success factors.Explicit attention
needs to be given to the institutional environment which plays a crucial
role during the implementation of the reform agenda.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        not applicable
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Harry C. Garnett
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-8188
Fax:   (202) 473-8368
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



