                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                                                 C




                                                                             Report No: 34590



                  IMPLEMENTATIONCOMPLETIONREPORT
                                       (IDA-3562 KE)
                                                   -


                                           CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9(USD15.0MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                 REPUBLICOF KENYA

                                            FOR A

    PUBLIC SECTORMANAGEMENTTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                     December 31,2005




Public SectorReform and Capacity Building Unit
CountryDepartment5
Africa Regional Office


This documenthas a restricted distributionand may be used by recipientsonly inthe
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

               CURRENCYEQUNALENTS

                       (ExchangeRate)

               CurrencyUnit = Kenya Shillings (Ksh.)
                       US$1 = Ksh.78.00 at appraisal
                       US$1 = Ksh.72.55 as of 12/28/2005

                       FISCAL. YEAR

                       July 1-June 30

           ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

CAS   CountryAssistance Strategy
co    CabinetOffice      ,
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
DFID  Department for Intern'ational Development
DO    DevelopmentObjective
DPM   Directorate of PersonnelManagement
DPP   Directorate of Public Procurement
EC    EuropeanCommission
FMS   Financial Management System
GOK   Government of the Republic of Kenya
HIPC  Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries
ICB   International CompetitiveBidding
ICR   ImplementationCompletion Report
IDA   InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFMIS IntegratedFinancial ManagementInformation System
M&E   Monitoringand Evaluation
MDAs  Ministries,Departmentsand Agencies
MLG   Ministryof Local Government
MoF   Ministryof Finance
MoPND Ministry of ~l&ing and National Development
MTEF  Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework
MTPRS Medium Term Pay ReformStrategy
NAO   National Audit Office
NCB   National CompetitiveBidding
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
PAC   Public Accounts Committee
PEMFA Public ExpenditureManagement and Financial Accountability
PFM   Public Financial Management
PCU   ProgramCoordinationUnit
PMEC  PayrollManagementand Establishment Control
PRSP  Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
PSM   Public SectorManagement
PS    Permanent Secretary
QAG   QualityAssurance Group
SDR   SpecialDrawingRights
SIDA  SwedishInternationalDevelopmentAgency
SWAP  SectorWide Approach
TTL   TaskTeamLeader


                                                        KENYA
                      PUBLIC SECTORMANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
                                ASSISTANCEPROJECT (PSMTAP)

                                                     CONTENTS


  1.    Project Data................................................................................................................... 1
  2.    Principal PerformanceRatings ...................................................................................1
  3.    Assessment of Development Objective and Design. and of Quality at Entry ..............2
  4.    Achievementof Objectives and Outputs......................................................................4
  5.    Major factors affecting implementation and outcome..................................................9
        Sustainability............................................................................................................
             . . .
  6.                                                                                                                                   10
  7.    Bank and Borrowerperformance................................................................................ 11
  8.    LessonsLearned........................................................................................................ 13
  9.    Partner comments........................................................................................................ 14
  10.   Additional Information.............................................................................................16
. Annex 1: Key Performance Indicators            ........................:.......................................................... 24
  Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing................................................................................... 28
 Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits...............................................................................                   30
 Annex 4: Bank Inputs .............................................................................................................31
 Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components..........................33
 Annex 6: Ratingsof Bank and Borrower Performance .........................................................34
 Annex 7: List of SupportingDocuments ...............................................................................35

 Project ID: PO66490                                          Project Name: PUB.SEC.MGMT.TA

 TeamLeader: SahrKpundeh                                      TL Unit:AFTPR
 ICR Type:Core ICR                                             Report Date: December 31,2005




1.        ProjectData    .

                Name:     Public SectorManagementTechnical                      L/C/TF PPFI-Q2400; PPFI-
                          AssistanceProject                                    Number: 42401;IDA-35620;TF-
                                                                                        52274.
                         I                                              I

  Countiy/Department: KENYA/AFCO5
                         1                                                     Region: Afiica Regional Office
                                                                                       1
                         I                                                             I
      Sector/subsector: Central governmentadministration (92%); Law andjustice (8%)
                Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement(P);
                          Other accountability/anti-corruption(P); Law reform (S);
                          Judicial and other disputeresolutionmechanisms (S)


KEY DATES                                                                 Original          Revised/Actual
          PCD;           0611212000                     Effective:      11/12/2001            11/12/2001
    Appraisal:           11/09/2000                         MTR:        06/27/2003           06/27/2003
     Approval:           0713112001                      Closing:       1213112004           06130/2005


 Borrower/lmplementingAgency:         The Republic of KenyafDirectorateof PersonnelManagement
                  OtherPartners:
STAFF                        Current                                  At Appraisal
 VicePresident:              GobindNankani                            Callisto Madavo
CountryDirector:             Colin Bruce                              Harrold Wackrnan
Sector Manager:              Helga Muller                             Brian Levy
TeamLeader at ICR:           SahrKpundeh                              Hany Garnett
ICR Primary Author:          SmileKwawukume

2.        PrincipalPerformance Ratings
(HS=HighlySatisfactory,S=Satisfactory,U=Unsatisfactory,HL=HighlyLikely,L=Likely,UN=Unlikely,HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=HighlyUnsatisfactory,H=High, SU=Substantial,M=Modest,N=Negligible)

                       Outcome:        U
                 Sustainability:       L
Institutional DevelopmentImpact:       M
              Bank Pedormance:         U
         Borrower Pedormance:          U

                                          QAG (if available)       ICR
                       Qualiiyat Entry: Not Applicable             U
            Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes                                                                 -

                                                      -2-


3.      Assessment of DevelopmentObjectiveand Design, and of Quality atEntry.

3.1      Originalobjectives

The development objective of the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project (PSMTAP)
was to improve governanceby putting in place systems and human resources capacity that are necessary
to achieve greater fiduciaryresponsibilityand reduce corruptionin the public service.
                                                                                                               ,
The objectives and design of PSMTAP need to be evaluated within the context of the Government of
Kenya's (GOK) own initiatives on public sector reform and the World Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The objectives were consistent with the World Bank's CAS for Kenya (Report No.
IDAm98-137, September 24, 1998).Public sector reform is a key ingredient for sustained development,
poverty reduction, and growth in Kenya. The project aimed at supporting three areas of emphasis in the
CAS: (i) public sector restructuring to create a more responsive and effective public sector, (ii) public
expenditure management reform to ensure efficient use of public resources, and (iii) strengthening
accountability mechanisms to restore institutional checks and balances and fight corruption. The PDO
remained relevant to the CAS and governmentpriorities.

The objectives were also consistent with the government's stated needs, priorities, and development
agenda. In 1998, the Government produced a strategy document titled "Civil Service Reform Medium
Term Strategy 1998-2001 (CSRP 11)". The document recognized the need for an efficientpublic sector as
a pre-requisite for sustained growth. A significant feature of the strategy was that it situated civil service
reform within a broader and comprehensive public sector reform agenda that would include a medium
term expenditure framework,public financial management,teachers service reform, parastatal reform and
privatization, and local government reform. Subsequently, in July 1999, the Government announced a
major public sector reform initiative, with emphasis on addressing the declining productivity in the civil
service. Two workshops were held in October 1999 and February 2000 to discuss the dimensionsof the
reform program. The program was consistent with the CAS and the government's reform program in that
it aimed at supporting reforms that would involve reducing the number and functions of ministries,
commercialization,divestiture or closure of non-core functions,rationalizing staffing levels in the public
sector, public sector pay reforms, aggressive and transparent privatization of major parastatal firms,and
establishing appropriate regulatory structures. It is in this context that the PSMTAP (No. 21397-KE) was
approved as a 3 year project.

3.2 Revised objectives

The project objectives werenot revised.

3.3 Originalcomponents:

The followingprovides a summaryof the objectivesJtargetsand project costs for each of the four
componentsof the project.

Component 1. Public ServiceReform (US$8.4 million)

The objective of this component was to create a leaner and highly motivated public service, better
equipped to deliver services to the public. Under the component, the project was expected to support the
preparation of exit plans for functions to be abolished,privatized or contracted out. It was also suppose to
support the establishment of benchmarks against which to measure service delivery and public service
performance and the development and implementationof service delivery surveys to monitor and report

on performance. Furthermore, it was supporting the implementation of an Integrated Payroll and
Personnel Database system (IPPD) in the Civil Service and the Teachers' Service; the development of a
comprehensive performance based pay scheme; the preparation and initial implementation of plans to
improve pay benefits; the preparation of options for a senior executive and professional service and a
related High Flyers' Scheme; the development of a contributory pension scheme; the preparation of
medical insurance options; a training needs assessment; and the development of a national policy
framework and strategy on information technology.

Component 2. Public Financial Management (US$7.0 million)

This component's objective was to achieve a more effective and efficient utilization of public resources
with enhanced accountability and transparency and to improve transparency and efficiency in the
procurement of goods and services. This component was to support the implementation of the Medium
Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF); the linking of the MTEF to the IPPD and the Integrated Financial
Management System (IFMIS); the development and implementation of a comprehensive budget
management system encompassing the Treasury, all line ministries and districts; the adoption of
GenerallyAccepted Accounting Principles(GAAP)and adherence to International Accounting Standards
(IAS) and value-for-money principles; capacity building and training in the offices of the Accountant
Generaland the Controller and Accountant General (renamed National Audit Office) and the Department
of Internal Audit; and the development of Computer Aided Auditing in the NAO. The project was also to
support the creation and staffing of a Public Procurement Directorate; the enactment of a new public
procurement law; the development of measures to help enforce public procurement reelations; and the
preparation of enabling instrumentsto legalizethe appointmentand operationalizationof the Procurement
Appeals Board.

Component 3. Legal Sector Reform (USS1.7 million)

The objective of this component was to establish the foundation for an, accessible, and responsive legal
and judicial system. This was to be achieved through the establishment of an improved records
management system for the registration and retrieval of case documents;the development and application
of a better system for recording court proceedings; the development of an Improved Court Management
system; the revision of all chapters of the Law of Kenya and making the same available in CD-ROMs;
assistance to the Legal Sector Reform Secretariat and the regular collection and dissemination of
informationrelatingto the reforms in the legal sector.

Component 4. Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit (USS.4 million)

This component was included to provide an efficient and effective coordinating body and process to
support the reform program across the public sector. The coordinating unit was to be located in the
directorate of Personnel Management in the office of the President. Support under this component
consisted of paying the consultancy fees for one year of the key members of the change team in the Office
of the President; consultants in public procurement, financial management. It was also supporting
monitoring and evaluation as well as the development and implementation of an Information,Education
and Communications(IEC) strategy and actionplan.

3.4 Revised components

Component 3- Legal Sector Reform was revised after the mid-term review of the project. This was
necessitatedby the creation of a new Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. The new ministry was

establishedfollowing the new government's desire to fight corruption and to deal withjudicial integrity.
The following activitieswere therefore agreedupon by the Government and the World Bank:

         (i)     Improving court registries in Nairobi, Mombasa and Machkos, and the registries in the
                 office of the Att6mey General in Nairobi and Mombasa through the provision of technical
                 advisory services, training, and the acquisition of computersand other equipment.

         (ii)    Enhancing the capacity of the Borrower's High Courts and Magistrates Courts to record
                 court proceedings, through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and the
                 acquisitionof equipment.

         (iii)   Development of a computerized case management system in the courts of the Borrower
                 through the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition of computers and
                 other equipment, and related training.

As a result of the revision of the component activities,the output indicators for the component were also
revised (see Annex 1for details and achievements).

3.5 Qualityat entry:

Although the project's objectives were consistent with the CAS and the government's development
agenda, the ICR deems the quality at entry to be moderately unsatisfactory.The rating is based on an
evaluation of the project objectives, consistency with World Bank policies, the quality of design,
reasontibleness of assumptions and assessmentof risks.

The objectives were not in conflict with safeguard or other policies of the World Bank. During the
preparation of the project, various consultations were held with government officials. To validate the
scopeof the project at the final stage, a stakeholder's workshop was organized.

However, the design of the project suffered fiom various weaknesses. The ability of government to carry
out the reforms was overestimated. The project design was ambitious as it sought to support reforms in
three difficult areas within three years. The World Bank wrongly assumed that two critical actions would
be taken for the successful implementation of component two: (a) Parliament would pass a public
procurement law and, @) Parliament would pass financial and accounting regulations. As of the time of
project closure, the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill was still in Parliament. The financial and
accountingregulation, which was changed into a Bill, was passed by Parliament and received Presidential
assent on December 31, 2004. However, the new act has not been gazetted, and hence was not effective
till project closure. It is now called the Government Financial Management Act, 2004. With respect to
retrenchment, there was no clear communication strategy to reach out to the labor unions to explain the
retrenchment strategy and modality in order to receive feedback. Second, there was no consultation with
the major political parties. As a result there was no commitment by the new government to go along with
theretrenchment program. Theproject did not benefit from any quality at entry assessment.

4.       Achievement of Objectives and Outputs

4.1      Outcome/achievementof objective

Overall, the achievement of objectives and outcomes is rated unsatisfactory. This is based on an
evaluation of the relevance of the project objectives and the efficiency of the project in delivering the
objectives. The rating is also based on an assessment of the outcome indicators (see Annex 1) and a

detailed description of outputsby components in the next sub-sections.The project is rated unsatisfactory
because even though most of the outputs were delivered, the outcome indicators were not met. The
following indicatorswere used in the assessment:


     (i)      Leaner and highly motivated public service,better equipped to deliver services to the public:
             No functional integratedhuman resource system was developed. The public service at the end
             of the project still remains large.


     (ii)     Efficient and effective utilization of public resources with enhanced accountability and
             transparency and improved transparency in the procurement of goods and services: An
             automated financial management system that ensures enhanced accountability and improved
             transparency was developed but is not fully operational.A public procurement law that would
             underpin the effectiveuse of public resources was not enacted before the project closed.


     (iii)    Establishment of a framework for the achievement of timely, accessible and responsive legal
             system: A lot (485) of senior staff of thejudiciary were trained on IT related skills. However,
             due to interference in the procurement process, the computers were delivered to the courts
            very late.


    (iv)      Efficientand effective coordinatingbody and process that support the reform program across
            the public sector: A project coordinating unit was formed that regularly prepared work and
            procurementplans. The unit also produced progress reports.

4.2       Outputsby components

4.2.1    Public Service Reform Component

This component is rated unsatisfactory due to the reasons outlined for each of the sub-componentsbelow:

4.2.1.1: Ministerial rationalization

This sub-component is rated moderately unsatkfactory. A study to identify functiondservices was
undertaken. Strategic plans have been developed for all ministries and departments. The Cabinet
approved a proposal for the retrenchment of 21,000 staff, on top of further reduction by 8,000 through
natural attrition, over a four year period. The proposal was based on a targeted voluntary early retirement
scheme (VERS), with an adequate separationpackage in order to mitigate the effects of retrenchmentand
reduce opposition fi-omemployees and Parliament.However, implementation of the VERS was very slow
and it also suffered a major setback. So far, only 1,023 staff have successfully gone through the VERS.
The process was stalled due to court actions by the labor unions against the VERS and by Parliamentary
opposition to the program. This was a result of poor involvement of all stakeholders in the design of the
scheme and poor communicationon the scheme to the labor unions. There was no clear indicationof who
was going to pay for the retrenchment costs or where the funding would come fiom. As a result, the
public sector wage bill did not decline even though it was one of the objectives of the reform. The VERS
failed also because there was no back-up plan.

The VERS was designed on the assumption that civil servants would whole-heartedly going to opt for it.
When the civil servants challenged the implementation of the VERS, no alternative scenario was offered.
Another challenge for this component was the apparent lack of coordination between officials of Ministry
of Finance, Ministry of Planning and National Development and the Directorate of Personnel

 Management. This resulted in the preparation of unrealistic strategic plans by various ministries and
 departments.
              '




 4.2.1.2: Establishment Control and Harmonization of Payroll and Personnel Data System

 This sub-component, which is rated unsatisfactory was to support the computerbased Jntegrated Payroll
 and Personnel Database (IPPD System) which was developed and piloted in four ministries before the
 project was effective. The system was aimed at overcoming the weaknesses in payroll and establishment         \

 management by minimizing irregular payments; introducing on-line data capture facilities to minimize
 delays in updating personnel data; generating timely and accurate reports in formats suitable for
 managers; provide a links with budget and financial expenditure data systems. The IPPD system was
 installed and in use in 24 ministries, departments and agencies. However, systems in the 24 MDAs are
 stand alone systems. This makes it difficult for updating personnel records and generating timely reports
 for managers and decision makers. Since the IPPD systems were stand alone systems,there was no link
 with the IFMIS in the Ministry of Finance. One of the objectives of the IPPD system is to prevent reentry
 of retrenched civil servants back into the public service and its operation as stand alone systems
jeopardized the attainment of that objective.

 4.2.1.3: Develop and Introduce a New Pay and Beneflts Policy and Performance Management

This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.Under this sub-component,a Pay Policy was developed and
approved by Cabinet. In addition, a Permanent Public Service Remuneration Review Board was also set
up. The board has developed a harmonization instrument for use in the public service.The Board has also
developed a draft Pay Policy. However, implementation.of the draft policy did not begin before the
project closed. This sub-component was expected to deliver the following as part of the medium termpay
and benefits policy - options for the creation of a Senior Executive and Professional Service, Selected
(SEPS), Accelerated Salary Enhancement Scheme (SASES) and a High Fliers Scheme (HFS). At the end
of the project, none of the above schemes were in operation. In addition, there was no clearly articulated
timeframefor the developmentand implementationof the medium term pay policy.

4.2.1.4: TrainingPolicy and TrainingNeeds Assessment

This component is rated moderatelyunsatisfactory.A recruitment and trainingpolicy was developed.The
policy was submittedto Cabinet in July 2004. It was subsequentlydiscussed and approved.As a result, 21
officers of DPM and the Human Resource Departrnqt were trained on how to conduct training needs
assessment. The trained officers later undertook training needs assessments in selected MDAs. However,
undertaking a training needs assessment in itself and undertakingtraining has not led to improvementsin
the performance of the civil service.

4.2.1.5: Development of a National Strategy and Policy Framework on Information Technology

This is rated unsatisfactory.The objective of this sub-componentwas the developmentof an ICT strategy,
as well as the implementation of a regulatory and legal framework to mainstream the use of information
technology based solutions and to increase efficiencyand effectiveness of public sector service delivery.
Very little progress was made in meeting the objectives of developing and rolling out a government
owned IT strategy, guidelines, use and support of information systems and infi-astructure,.The other
objective was to simplifyoperational support so that government information systems and infrastructure
can be managed efficiently, reliably and cost effective. As of the time of project closure, only a draft of
the ICT strategy was developed. IT infrastructure in government continued to be developed in an
uncoordinated manner with some systems not compatible with each other. Even though a national IT

 strategy was essential, the government placed emphasis on the development of an E-Government agenda
 and program without first developingthe IT strategy,which would have served as a basis for a national IT
 program. As a result, the roll-out of an Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)
 suffered significantly.

 4.2.2: Public Financial Management

 This component is rated moderatelysatisfactory

 4.2.2.1: Implementation of MTEF

 This sub-component is rated moderately unsatisfactory. There was progress to improve budget planning
 and execution. However, the MT,EF had little impact on actual budgetary allocations. This is because the
 MTEF process has been used more as a planning tool than a budgeting tool. The MTEF process is not as
 effective as it could be because of a flawed institutional structure. The line item budget, MTEF,
 ministerial Public Expenditure Reviews, and the strategicplans are all carried out by separateparts of the
 Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Planning & National Development and the Office of the President.
 However, with the integration of the MTEF Secretariat into the Budget Supply Department of the
Ministry of Finance within the last six months before project closure, it is anticipated that the process of
resource planning, management, allocation and execution would improve significantly.

4.2.2.2: Strengthening GovernmentFinance andAccounting

This component is rated moderately unsatkfactory. Over 300 officers have been trained in CPA, over 800
'in job-related training and a significant number have undergone training-of-trainers courses as well as
short courses in Financial Management. There has been an improvement in cash book management and
timely preparation of financial statements. There are currently no arrears in the preparation of financial
statements for the various ministries and departments. A revised Financial Management Bill has been
prepared and placed before Parliament. The Bill (now called The Government Financial Management
Act, 2004) was enacted by Parliament and received Presidential assent on December 31, 2004. Up until
the time of preparing this report, the new Act awaits the Minister of Finance to gazette its effectiveness.
The process of gazetting this Act has taken a longer time than expected.

An Integrated,Financial Management Information System (IFMIS) was developed during 2002-2003.
From the beginning of 2004, two ministries, Finance.and Planning and National Development have been
piloting the software. However, the public sector budgeting module was not adequate to satisfythe MTEF
requirements. The roll-out of the IFMIS was hamper4 by the unavailability of strong human resource
support and a robust infrastructure system. The inhstructure includes the networks, data center, and a
disaster recovery center. Top level support and commitment for this important computer system was not
adequate. As a result, the system has not been rolled-out yet. Another factor that impeded the successful
roll-out of the FMIS was the absence of a national IT strategy and policy that would guide government
on the roll-out.

4.2.2.3: Internal Auditing

This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Activities undertaken include staff training, purchase of
equipment, and the development of an internal audit manual for use by internal audit staff for effective
and efficientaudit service.All thiswas aimed at the introduction of a systems audit to replacetransactions
audits. There have been a lot of improvements after the systems audit was introduced, including records
being on time and the flow of funds going well. In collaboration with the DPM, the Internal Audit

    department audited the payroll and noted processing errors, lack of security data and management
    information, as well as a lack of compliance with DPM circulars. As a result of the review, a Payroll
    Monitoring Unit was formed comprising of Internal Audit, DPM, and Government Information
    TechnologyService(GITS). Thishas resulted in improved compliancewith management

    4.2.2.4: Strengthening of theAuditor General's Department (NationalAudit Office)

    This sub-componentis rated satisfactory.The efficiency and effectiveness of the NAO has been enhanced
    through capacity building. Officers of NAO underwent a lot of training and received post graduate
    degrees in accounting and passed professional examinations (Certified Professional Accountancy I1 and
    111). Capacity was also built through the provision of vehicles, computers, photocopiers and other office
    equipment. As a result the enhanced capacity of staff, the Office has reduced the backlog of annual audit
    reports f?om three years to one year. In addition, the NationalAudit Office has improved upon the quality
    of auditreports that it currentlyprepares on time.

    4.2.2.5: ProcurementReform

   This is rated moderately unsatirfactoly.The Governmenthas not yet established the Public Procurement
    Oversight Authority as an independent body. However, a Public Procurement Complaints Review and
   Appeals Board had been established.A third version of the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill which
    is comparableto internationalstandards was approvedby Cabinet on May 16,2003.This followed a long
   and protracted process. Earlier in November 2001, one version of the bill that was approved by Cabinet
   and published was withdrawn when it was realized that key issues had not been well addressed.
   Subsequently, a second revised Bill was drafted and submitted again to Cabinet on July 25, 2002 and
   approved. Following the general electionsat the end of 2002, a new government came to power. The new
   government drafted a revised Public Procurement and Disposal Bill in 2003. However, the Bill which
   was presented to Parliament could not be enacted before the project closed and was however passed into
   law two months after project closure.

   4.2.3: Legal Sector Reform

   This component is rated moderately unsatisfactory. When the new government came to power with a
   strong desire to fight corruption and restore judicial integrity, it created a new ministry - Ministry of
   Justice and ConstitutionalAffairs. Subsequently, during the mid-term review of the project, it was agreed
   to focus support under this component on computerization of the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional
   Affairs. In addition, it was expected to undertake IT training. Computerization and local area networking
   was done for the ministry. The rating of this component is based on the fact that inputs (computers and
   training) were delivered. However, the computers were delivered only at the very end of the project.
   Therefore, the rationale of introducingautomation to improve filing of court cases was not achieved at the
   end of the project. Suspension in procurement processes, resulting in undue delays in international
   competitive bidding processes for the procurement of computers, accountsfor the delays in the late
   delivery of the computers. It is also worth mentioning that during the duration of the project, Pennanent
   Secretaries (PS) who were in charge of this component were replaced on two occasions. The fiequent
,  turnover impacted negatively on speedydecisionmaking for the attainmentof the component objectives.


   4.2.4: Project Coordination

   This component is rated moderateZy satisfactoy. The Public Sector Coordination Unit produced and
   submitted on time quarterly progress reports, quarterly work plans as well as procurement plans. The

project finance and accounting was done according to World Bank financial management guidelines.
About 70 percent of the contractswere signed on time, in accordance with procurement plans. There were
some delays in the undertaking of International Competitive Bidding. Annual audits were executed
though two of them were not submitted within the six months stipulated timeframe as indicated in the
DCA. The Project coordinator's services were terminated for breach of contract. As a result, the M&E
specialistof the project acted as the project coordinator for more than a year.

4.3      Net Present ValudEconomicRate of Return:

Not applicable

4.4      Financial rate of return

Not applicable

4.5      Institutional Development Impact

The project had modest institutional development impact. The entire focus of the project was on
institutional development. Therefore, to the extent that the project did not deliver as planned, its
institutionaldevelopmentimpact is also limited. Even though the PDO is rated unsatisfactory because the
major outcomes were not achieved, capacities of most of the institutions were built through training and
acquisitionof office equipment. The institutionsthat were to be developed and change the way things are
done are the Budget Supply Department through the MTEF, the Accountant General's Department
through the new accounting system, the size of all MDAs were to be rationalized for efficient service
delivery. All MDAs were to judiciously use public resources through the use of a sound procurement
system. However, it is worthy to note that a lot of human capacity has been built at the National Audit
Office, the Office of the Internal Auditor and the Budget Supply Department of the Ministry of Finance.
Staff of the above-mentioned institutions received a lot of training. Based on the training, NAO has no
arrears in the preparation of audit reports. Based on the new manual for internal auditing and training the
Office of the Internal Auditor is now using a systems-basedapproach to auditing.

5.       Major factorsaffecting implementationand outcome

5.1      Factors outside the control of implementingagency:

(i)Thechangeingovernment administrationafterthe2002general elections.Atthe endof 2002,anew
govenunent was sworn into office. Some bills like the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill that was
drafted and approved by the previous Cabinet was not acted upon. Subsequently, a new bill was drafted
and placed before Parliament. Midstream through the implementation of the project, the new
Government, with a focus on fighting corruption and dealing withjudicial integrity, created the Ministry
of Justice and Constitutional Affairs and requested for the amendment of the legal component. The
component was therefore restructured after the mid-term review to accommodate the request from
Government.

(ii) Failure of Parliament to pass key pieces of legislation: Even though the Public Procurement and
Disposal Bill had been laid before Parliament in May 2003, the Bill was not passed at the time of project
closureon June 30,2005.

(iii) Termination of contract of all procurement officers: When the new government assumed office,
contracts for all procurement officers were terminated including the procurement officer of the project.

This action of govemment adversely affected the procurement processes in the entire public service
includingthose related to project.

5.2      Factors subject to government control:

 (i) Inadequate commitment to the reform. The Government prepared the MTEF but did not use it as a
tool to reallocate resources to high priority areas. Even though Parliament enacted "The Govemment
Financial Management Act, 2004" and it received Presidential assent on December 31,2004, it has taken      ,
longer than expected to gazette the new Act. Inadequate commitment manifested also in the non-
 finalizationof the National Anti-CorruptionAction Plan.

(ii) Poor communicationon the benefits of the reform. The Government did not adequately communicate
the importance of the reforms and the details of the VERS to the public and the civil servants in
particular. As a result, lawsuits were filed by labor unions and individuals that slowed down the
implementationof the scheme.


5.3      Factorsgenerally subject to implementingagency control

(i) Late submission of annual project audit reports. Since the Development Credit Agreement requires
that annual audit reports should be submitted not later than 6 months, it was important that the
implementing agency adhere to this covenant. This requires that the annual financial statements are
prepared on time and the audit process initiated early enough. The audit reports most of the time were
submittedafter six months.

(ii) Faulty procurement procedures. The Project Coordinating Unit should have adhered to the tenets of
the Procurement Guidelinesto ensure speedy and efficient procurementof goods. The faulty procurement
procedures inhibitedthe successfulimplementationof some project activities.

5.4      Costs andfinancing:

The estimated cost of the project at appraisal is SDR 11.9 (US$ 15 million equivalent). As of the end of
the four month grace period (after the close of the project) for all withdrawalsapplicationsto be honored,
a total of US$14,021,355.14 was withdrawn from the credit leaving a balance of US$3,142,966.86. There
was a gain of US$ 2,164,322 due to changes in SDR/US$ exchangerates. The govemmentprovided KSH
14,838,908which is equivalent to US $305,667.141. The government's contribution was far below what
                                                         ,
was estimated during project preparation.

6.      Sustainability

6.1     Rationalefor sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the modest gains achieved during the project is rated likely. To improve public
expenditure management, the Government is continuing to implement the action plan that formed part of
the 2003 public expenditure management assessment action plan (PEM-AAP). To improve the budget
formulation process, the Government has unified the MTEF secretariat with the Budget Supply
Departmentof the Ministry of Finance.

The Government is also implementing a new timetable that initiates the budget formulation process in
October to ensure that the public expenditure review, the preparation of the medium term expenditure

framework, and the budget process are aligned. The introduction of systems audit in the internal auditing
process has been remarkable. An internal audit manual was developed and is been printed for use by
 internal audit staff for effective and efficient audit service which is an important step in the fight against
 corruption.

 In the Accountant General's Department, about 300 officers were trained in CPA and on-the-job training.
 The human capacity that has been built would go a long way to provide the necessary building blocks to
 sustainthe modest gains.                                                                                       ,

To sustain the achievements, the Government, jointly with the World Bank, is preparing a follow-up
project (Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project) to further strengthen public financial
management and build capacityof MDAs.

 6.2     Transitionarrangement to regular operations:

To sustain momentum for the reforms, the Government in February 2005 has set up a Public Financial
Management CoordinatingUnit within the Ministry of Finance. This unit is coordinating all the reform
initiatives related to public financial management. In addition, the Government has developed a
comprehensive public financialmanagement program. This program is the basis for supportby the World
Bank in the forthcomingInstitutionalReform and Capacity Building Project (IRCBP). Other development
partners, such as the Department for International Development (DFID), Swedish International
Development Agency (SIDA), and the European Commission (EC), are also discussing their support for
the Government's program through ajoint program with the World Bank's IRCBP.

7.       Bank and Borrower performance

Bank

7.1      Lending

The World Bank's overall performance in lending was moderately unsatisfictory. The assessment is
based largely on the same criteria used for assessing the quality at entry - objectives, design and
assessment of risks, and assumptions. The preparation of @e project was based on the needs of the
Government and the CAS objectives. Many consultationswere held with government officials. However,
the World Bank did not bring its vast knowledge on the management of retrenchmentprograms to bear on
the design of the retrenchment program. Even though "resistance to reforms, especially retrenchment"
was identified as a high risk, no clear mitigating measures were put in place. Overall, the project focused
very much on training and computers and more emphasis should have been put on underlying necessary
policy reforms.

7.2     Supervision

The World Bank's performanceduring supervision was moderatelysatisfactov. The Bank fielded a total
of eight missions during the life of the project. Missions lasted on average two weeks and consisted of a
minimum of six team members of varied expertise (public sector management, economics, information
technology, financial management, procurement, law and others). During the three and half years of the
project, two TTLs managed the project. Even though the TTLs were not in the field, economists,together
with financial management and procurement experts located in the country office, provided daily support
to the project team. When it was detected that the Project Coordinatorwas engaged in another paid job,
the Bank reacted swiftly by recommending the termination of the contract of the Project Coordinator.

However, the Bank supervisionmission did not provide data for M&E in the PSRs. The PSR (later ISRs)
did not record any baselines, targets and actuals until the last ISR. No disbursement flags were raised
despitethe factthat there was a disbursement lag of 24 months at closing.

 7.3      OverallBank Performance

Based on the above, the overallperformance of the World Bank is moderately unsatisfactory.

Borrower

 7.4     Preparation:

The borrower's performance during preparation was moderately satisfactory. The Government team
worked closely with World Bank staff during preparation. In 2000, the Government prepared a new
"Strategic Plan for Public Sector Reform". The new StrategicPlan was used as a basis for a stakeholders'
workshop to discuss the reforms and gain buy-in. The borrower, however, did not critically examine its
ability to quickly gain approval for some of the reformsin Parliament.

 7.5     Governmentimplementationperformance:

The Government's implementation performance was unsatisfactory.The previous Government spent a lot
of time on drafting of the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill. Two separate drafts were presented to
the previous Cabinet. Due to the poor communicationstrategy on VERS, the labor unions filed a law suit
in the courts that suspendedthe implementation of the scheme.        .


The project was supervised directly by the Permanent Secretary in the DPM. In early 2004, a new
position was created for a Permanent Secretary on public sector reforms without a proper delineation of
oversight responsibility over the project. As a result, implementation of some activities came to a halt.
Some procurement processes were suspended, and some staff were also suspended due to conflicting
signals. It was not clear who was then in charge.

In late 2003, the project coordinator was released fiom his post due to conflict of interest. Despite
assurances gven to the World Bank about replacement, no coordinator was recruited. Instead, the M&E
specialist of the project was acting as the project coordinator. As a result, M&E activities were down-
played duringthe last one and half years for the project,

7.6      Implementing Agency:

The performanceof the project implementationagencywas moderately unsatisfactory.The Directorate of
Personnel Management (DPM) was the designated agency to implement the project which covers civil
service reform, public financial management reform, including procurement reform, and legal sector
reform. However,the DPM did not appear to have the institutional strengthwithin the civil serviceto take
responsibility and be held accountable for the completion of the planned activities within the set
timefiame for all the components. The DPM did not follow up with the individual agencies to resolve
bottlenecks.

It is, however, important to note that project staff was dedicated.As expected, annual and quarterly work
plans and procurement plans were prepared. The plans provided information on the type of procurement
planned under the project, details of the processing steps, as well as the time required for each processing
step till completion. The other aspects of project management were also satisfactory - procurement,

 disbursement and reporting. Records relating to the IDA disbursements were properly kept, and easily
 accessible,,expendituresdocumented under the Statement of Expenditures were all found to be eligible
 for financingunder the credit. A forensic audit conductedby the World Bank for Bank supportedprojects
 gave the project a clean bill of health.

 7.7 OverallBerrowerperformance:

The overallBorrower performance was moderately unsatisfactory.

 8.      Lessons Learned

Various lessons couldbe drawn fiom the implementationof the project. However, the four listed ones
below stand out clearly.


         (i)     When re-establishing a relationship with a country, keep reforms simple. Between 1996
                and 2000, the World Bank had a difficultrelationshipwith the Kenyan Government. As a
               result, there was only one project in the entire portfolio. Policy dialogue with the
               Governmentwas at its lowest with little agreement on the way forward. Therefore, much
               cannotbe expected to be achieved under a project that requires major policy reforms.


         (ii)   Providefor adequate timefor implementation of reforms. Reforms require a lot of time to
               mature especially when there is the need for Parliamentary approval. There is, therefore,
               the need to build adequate support and coalition among all stakeholders, including
               parliamentarians, during the preparation of the reforms and the drafting of bills. The
               project life of three years was too short for any meaningful policy reforms to be carried
               out successfully.


         (iii)  Develop an effectivecommunications strategy to communicate the benefits of the reform
               duringpreparation and implementation. The design of the project was undertakenby the
               Government and the Bank without much involvement of civil society groups, the private
               sector and parliament. Effective communication would have helped to gain broader
               support of stakeholders which is a critical ingredient for the success of major policy
               reforms. Major reforms, such as those expected to be executed in the project, need to be
               discussed broadly not only with civil society groups but also leaders of major political
               parties in order to gain their support.This is required so that in the event of a change in the
               political leadershipof the country, the new party in governmentwill appreciate the issues
               and the rationale for the reforms.

        (iv)    Align appropriate institutional arrangements \with the champions of the project. It is
               important during preparation to identify the political champions at the responsiblefor the
               various reform processes which have wide political ramifications. Based on this, the
               managerial responsibility for the Project should be assigned to someone who clearly has
               the authority,means, and stature to carry out the reforms.


A governance review completed by forensic auditors for the Government in July 2005 found some                  '


shortcomingsin the control environment in the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
but concluded that these appeared not to have translated into fraud. The review contained several
recommendations that should be incorporated as lessons in future projects design. They include the
following:

     (i)    Fraud-risk management must become an integral part of all future projects. Specific
            attention should be paid to fraud risk by including transparency and accountability
            mechanisms, as well as supporting the development of institutional risk management
            policies and independent and effectiveministerial risk management oversight committees.
            It is important to develop a framework for the preparation and presentation of timely and
            comprehensive periodic financial management accounts and annual financial statements
            based on generallyaccepted accountingprinciplesand professional best practices.

     (ii)   Project Steering Committees must take active leadership roles in project governance by
            meeting regularly and providing adequate oversight and necessary policy guidance to
            project implementation.

     (iii)  Strong leadership is required from the Cabinet which demonstratespolitical will, as well
            as Permanent Secretariesand Accounting officers, who have the primary responsibilityof
            spearheading public Sector Reforms.         A visible leadership presence is particularly
            important during project implementation to ensure development outcomes of projects are
            met and fiduciary due diligence is exercised.

9.   Partner comments:

(i)  BorrowerfimplementingAgency

     Commentsfromthe Governmentof Kenya:

     Para 3.5: Quality at Entry

     With respect to retrenchment, we wish to make the followingclarification:

            On the on set of the RetrenchmentProgramme,there was no Union in the Civil Serviceto
            negotiate with the Government on the modalities of the Retrenchment Programme.
            However, in the year 2003, the Govemment allowed the establishment of the Union of
            Kenya Civil Servantsand was recognised by the Governmentin 2004;

            The Government developed a retrenchment plan, guidelines, sensitization manuals and
            sensitized ministeriaVdepartrnenta1 reform committees which thereafter were used to
            sensitizethe entire Civil Serviceon the Retrenchment Programme;

            The new Government (NARC) fully supportsthe staff rightsizing measures as evidenced
            in the NARC Manifesto and the economic recovery strategy whose priority is to
            downsize the Public Sector and make it more efficient and investor friendly in order to
            promote private sector led growth and poverty reduction. Currently, the Govemment is
            implementing a staff rightsizing exercise through which 21, 338 Civil Servants will exit
            from the Service through a Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS) over a period of
            three (3) years (2004-2007); and

            The last six lines of Para 3.5 need to be recast.

         Para 4.2.1.1:   ~inisterialRationalization

     All MinistriesDepartments have developed strategic plans that are aligned to the
     Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment (2003-2007) objectives. In
     addition ministries/departrnents have developed work plans and set targets which form
     the basis for performance contracting in the Civil Service. Further the strategic plans
     have assisted in identifying areas where staff can be allowedto retire voluntarily;

     The implementation of Voluntary Early Retirement Scheme (VERS) did not take off as          \

     planned due to a court case between the Union of Kenya Civil Servants and Government
     over a pay dispute issue raised by the Union. In addition all stakeholderswere involved
     in the design of the Scheme. Civil Servants were fully sensitized on the objectives,
     retirement benefits and operationalization of the Scheme. The Scheme is on-going and
     good progress is being made towards the realizationof the settargets; and

     The public wage bill could not have declined as expected because the implementation
     VERS was not complete or half way done. The Scheme has been funded by the
     government to the tune of Kshs.2 billion (US$27.6 million). The sentence to the effect
     that is was not clear who was going to pay for the retrenchment costs or where the
     funding would come from is not true. These last sentences of Para 4.2.1.1. need to be
     recast.

4.2.1.3. Develop and Introduce a New Pay And Benefits Policy and Performance
                  Management

         A pay policy was developed and submitted to the Cabinet for approval.

4.2.1.4. TrainingPolicy and Training Needs Assessment

         Last lipe:
                  ...................... Therehas not been any visiblechangein theperformance
                  of the Civil Service. This evaluation should.have been made three or more
                  years after the closure of the project. No impact could have been observed
                  on performance of the Civil Serviceafter such a short period of time.

STRENGTHENINGGOVERNMENT.FINANCEAND ACCOUNTING FUNCTIONS

The only activity lagging behind is the implementation of IFMIS due to lack of a robust
inti-astructure largely because of inadequate funding and absence of a national IT strategy.
Roll out of IFMIS has been extended to eleven (11) Ministries and is on-going to cover the
rest. The infrastructure problem is being addressed and more funds have been requested
under the upcoming Public Financial Management Reforms Project. The only performance
indicator for our sub-component under the PSM-TAP was training of 60% of professional
accountingpositions (Chief Accountant and above) cross Government to CPA IIIstandardby
2004 and was fully achieved. Other areas of training have been achieved in excess of earlier
targets.

The Government Financial Management Act was enacted 2004 and received Presidential
assent December 31, 2004 and has now been operationalisedwith effect from 1'' November,
2005. The revision of the Scheme of Service for Accountants was done in 2002 and the new
Schemebecame effectiveDecember 2002.

         In our view, we have achieved our performance targets in the PSM-TAP and therefore the
         rating for our sub-component should be better than "moderately unsatisfactory" as reflected
         under paragraph 4.2.2.2of the draft completion report. This requires re-rating to reflect the
         correct position.

         ADDITIONAL COMMENTS ON ICR FOR LEGAL SECTOR REFORM
         COMPONENT
                                                                                                        ,
               The opening paragraph on section 4.2.3 - page 13 completely mixes up the rationale
               for the creation of the Ministry of Justice and ConstitutionalAffairs and the objectives
               of the Legal Sector Reform Component. The Ministry was not created solely to carry
               out PSM-TAP; this is grossly misleading and should be rectified.

               It would be equally necessary and prudent to revisit the main conclusions arrived at
               between the World Bank and the Government, which are contained in the Mid-Term
               Aide-Memoir and compare the same with the ICR. Doing so will no doubt throw light
               on the framework and reasonsas to why the computerization objectivesas contained in
               the PAD were not met and, secondly, you will be able to note that most of the
               objectives and activities under the Legal Sector Reform Component were re-allocated
               out of the component and are currently funded through the Financial and Legal Sector
               ReformProject (FLSTAP).

               It is grossly erroneous on the part of the report to document that the change of
               Permanent Secretariesin charge of the programme negatively impacted on the speed.of
               decision making for the attainment of the objectives of the component. It is a fact that
               the delay in obtaining letters of no objection from the World Bank contributed greatly
               to the delay in implementation.

 (ii)    Co-financiers-Not applicable


 (iii)   Other partners (NGOsIprivate sector): Not applicable

 10.     AdditionalInformation

 GOVERNMENT'S ICR

 Introduction

.The agreement for the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project was signed on 26"'
 September2001 and the project became effective on the 12" November, 2001. This was the second
 phase of a long term reform process that was to build on the progress made under the Institutional
 Development and Civil Service Reform Project. The project goal was to put in place the human
 resource management, training, incentive, financial management, legal and informition technology
 systems required to improve servicedelivery, transparency and accountabilityin the public service.

The project is comprised of the following four components: Public ServiceReform; Public Financial
Management; Legal SectorRefonn; and the Public Sector Reform CoordinatingUnit.


Project Components and Objectives

         The following are the project components and their respectiveobjectives:


         a)      Public ServiceReform-To createa leaner and highly motivated public service better
                 equipped to deliver servicesto the public more effectivelyand efficiently.


         b)      Public Financial Management - to achieve more effective utilization of public
                 resources with enhanced accountability and to improve transparency and efficiency
                 in the procurement of goods and services.

         c)      Legal Sector Reform -To establish a foundation for the achievement of timely, more
                 rapid, accessibleand responsive legal andjudicial systemsofjustice.

         d)      Public Sector Reform Coordinating Unit - To provide an efficient and effective
                 coordinating body and process that supports the reform programme access the public
                 sector.

Public SemceReform Component

Studies were undertaken on services to be privatized, contracted out or commercialized.
Implementationof the studies is in progress as evidenced by the Privatization Bill, already passed by
Parliament and the contracting out of someof the services such as cleaning. The studies have enabled
ministries to allow staff undertaking functionshighlightedto retire under VERS.

Service Delivery Surveys for ministries were undertaken and this enabled the ministries to establish
the Work Improvement teams (WITS) to apportion assignments, drawjob specificationsand measure
workload against workforce as well as measuring outputs. The WITS concept has brought about
improvement in public serviceperformance.

The implementationof IPPD in the civil service and in the Teachers Service Commission has been
accomplished. This has been achieved through establishment of stand-alone systems to run the
payrolls.

The size of the civil service has reduced through normal retirement and attrition. The VERS scheme
was halted by a court case which was determinedtowards the end of last financial year. The process
has started and over 1000officerswere retired in July and August 2005.

The development of an affordable pay and benefits policy within the MTEF was achieved. A Public
ServiceRemuneration Review Board was established and assisted by Advisors, it has come up with a
draft Pay Policy. The implementation of the policy has started in the current financial year where an
element of the pay increment was factored in the current budget and its implementation was effected.
It mainly targeted the medium and lower cadres as per earlier recommendations of the
implementationof the Pay Policy.

Medium Term ExpenditureFramework

Core staff were trained on MTEF budget preparation. The development of MTEF has been a
continuingprocess and so has been the staff training. Most of the training was local while a few staff
attended overseas specialized training. Study tours were also undertaken to Tanzania, Uganda and
South Africa. Resulting from the specialized training and the tours the budget calendar has been

revised and a circular drafted on commitment by ministries which are now required to pass through
Treasury.

The linkage of MTEF computer information system to IPPD and IFMIS was not achieved. The
development of IPPD and IFMIS was achieved but the roll-out of the systems was hampered by lack
of LAN and WAN. This caused connectivity and linkages of the systems unachievable.

National Audit Office

The Controller and Auditor General's office has been renamed as the Kenya National Audit Office.
Its capacity has been developed through training of the professional staff in CPA I1 and I11
programmes and post graduate courses. The office also received computers and vehicles which has
enhanced its performance. The component achieved its performance indicator.

Accountant General's Component

The project's aim was to build capacity and train officers in the Department. This was achieved by
sponsoring officers for CPA courses, undertaking in-house training ~ob-relatedtraining) and
supporting senior officersto attend financial management courses. The training and capacity building
has raised the professional standards for the accounting staff. This was further enhanced by the
revised scheme of service for the cadre that became effectivein 2004.

The component has also developed the IFMIS which is currently being rolled out to the ministries.
The functions performed by the component include: accounting for all Government transactions
including payment, revenues and balance sheet transactions; financial information including budget
execution; cash flow forecastingand automatedbank reconciliation. All this has brought discipline in
expenditure and accounting of resources by ministries. Through the component, computers were
procured and distributed to ministriesand districtsto facilitateimplementationand roll-out of IFMIS.


Internal Audit ~epartment

A lot of training and capacity building has been undertaken. This has resulted into the adoption of
systems auditing in Government. This has transformed auditing in Government where focus is now
more on high risk areas, operating systems, quality and value for money. The internal audit manual
was developed and its awaitingprinting and circulation to all the internal auditors.

Public ProcurementDirectorate

The Public Procurement Directorate was established. Most of the staff were however removed from
procurement and new ones recruited through a restructuring process. The new staff have been
trained. The Directorate was also capacity build through procurement of equipment and vehicles.
Training of procuring entities and establishment of the procurement committees was achieved. The
Public ProcurementComplaints Review and Appeals Board was established and has been operational
since December 2001. The Public Procurement and Disposal Bill has also been passed by Parliament.
This will transform the Directorate into an oversight body that will enhance efficiency and
transparency in the PublicProcurement function.

Information TechnologyComponent

The IT strategy and policy framework was developed. The project financed the consultancy and
workshops through which stakeholders from different sectors (public, private & civic) made
contributionsto the preparation of the strategy. The strategyimplementationwill be rolled-out during
the current financial year.

Legal SectorReform Component

After the project's Mid-Term Review in June 2003, the DCA was amended to accommodate the             ,
newly constituted Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. The focus of the component
therefore changed in favour of computerization of the Ministry in order to develop computerized
system upon which the earlier performance indicators (case management, records management, law
revision and recording of court proceedings) would be developed. The earlier performance indicators
were therefore replaced with others focusing on computerization, IT training and the development of
the Anti-Comption National Action Plan (see performance indicators & achievement matrix).
Computerization has been undertaken and LAN for MOJCA and Sheria House was undertaken. This
is expected to enhance the use of IT system. The IT training was also undertaken and this will
facilitate the utilization of the computer equipment. The Anti-Comption Action Plan was developed
but not finalized.

The recording of court proceedings is being funded by'a supplementary funding (Norwegian Grant)
which has been extended to December 2005.           Requests for proposals have been opened and
evaluationis on-going. The program is likely to be achieved by end of the grant.

Public Sector Reform CoordinatingUnit

The implementation, coordination and management of PSM-TAP was enhanced by PSRCU. Since
the project was being implemented by different ministriesldepartments; its management required a
centralized office fiom which all activitieswould be coordinated. This made communicationbetween
the donor and the implementing agencies more efficient and effective. The Unit produced timely and
comprehensive reports within deadlines. It also disbursed the project funds to components and
prepared SOEs of the same as well as the accounts reports. Procurement of the project was done
centrally by the Unit since IDA procurement regulations were followed. This would have been a
challenge to the components where capacity to procure under IDA procedures is not available. The
Unit also undertook continuous monitoring and evaluation and also developed and implemented an
IEC strategy.

Conclusion

The Financial Management Reform Component achieved its performance indicators. The Public
Service Reform Component achieved two performance indicators while the other two were partially
achieved. Legal Sector Reform Component has achieved its revised performance indicators except
the recording of courtproceedings whose deadlinewas extendedto December 2005 and is likely to be
achieved.

Project Impact

Public ServiceReform Component

        Studies on contracting out services are being used by ministries to contract out cleaning
        services. This has brought out a face lift to many Government buildings where the standard
        of cleanlinesshas improved immensely.

        The ministerial strategic plans has assisted ministries in identifying areas with excess staff
        which they are using to allow excess staffto retire under the VER scheme.

        The Permanent public Service Remuneration Review Board (PPSRRB) has assisted in the
        control of awarding salary increment to categories of jobs in the civil service. For instance
        the Board recently gave guidanceto salary awards for National Audit Office. The Board also
        has been instrumental to the recent salary awards for civil service at the beginning of the
        current financial year.

        Through IPPD, PSM-TAP has assisted in the Local Area Networking of Seven Government
        Buildings. The offices in these buildings are now networked and access e-mail,IFMISIIPPD
        systems are also being rolled-out. When the PSRCUIGITS team went round recently to
        inspect the LAN in buildings, senior government officers expressed their appreciation and
        said it has drastically reduced the cost of communication,and it is more efficient. Below is a
        case mentioned in Ministryof Foreign Affairs:

        >   In the head of departments meeting of 22"dAugust 2005, one member said that before
            anyone says anything else he would like to be allowed to appreciate the Information,
            Communication and Technology Unit for the job well-done in networking the offices.
            He further said that nearly all ofices are on e-mail which has drastically reduced the cost
            of communicatingwith the foreign missions. He said this has brought a major impact in
            running affairs of the ministry, which has become more efficient and improved service
            deliverysignificantly.

Another major impact IPPD has created is harmonisation of allowances. IPPD has assisted in the
detection of the extraneousallowancesand payroll cleansing.




Medium Term Expenditure Framework

              PSM-TAP funds were used to undertake an MTEF review. The recommendations
              given under the review study are being~havebeen implemented. These include
              specialized staff training, study tours to countries in the region where MTEF is more
              developed. This has also led to improvement of MTEF process by introducinga new
              MTEF system known as the General Financial Statistics (GFS). MTEF is further
              working on modalities of involving Parliamentarians in the entire budget process in
              order to improveownershipof the final annual budgets.

              Another impact of the MTEF Review is the transfer of the MTEF secretariat fiom
              Ministry of Planning and National Development to Ministry of Finance. MTEF
              Secretariat has been incorporated within the Budget Supply Department which has
              improved the whole process of resource planning, management, allocation and
              execution.

National Audit Office (NAO)

              The capacity build at the NAO has created major impact.            In a recent impact
              assessment for PSM-TAP, about 48% of officers trained in NAO said the training has
              had great impact while another 52% said moderate impact. Data storage and security

             has improved, there is improved efficiency and faster processing of reports, research
             and sharing of information is better due to use of ernailhnternet and staff morale and
             motivation has also improved.

             The officers in NAO are able to travel widely to the districtsas a result of the vehicles
         -   bought under PSM-TAP. Thishas enabled the office to undertake more assignmentsat
             a given time, thus improvingefficiencyand effectiveness.

             The office has also reduced the arrears of annual audit reports in Government from
             three (3) years to about one (1) year. This is reported to be due to the training and
             computers provided as well as improved transportation'sinceone assignment can now
            be completed within a much shortertime.

            Regarding the Donor-funded projects audit report the impact can be deduced from the
            following statementby the Financial Specialist at the World Bank Country Office.

            The audit reports have been completed in time. This is a major improvement from the
            previous year where the rate of achievement was below 30% and now it is at 97%.
            Kenya's case will be mentioned in other countries that timely project audit reports are
            achievable.

            The Deputy Auditor General who has been the Component Coordinatorhas constantly
            saidthat such efficiencywas as a result of the capacitybuilt by PSM-TAP to the NAO.

Accountant General's Component

            The Component has trained about 415 officers at CPA level. During a recent impact
            assessment study 86% of the respondentssaid they are using the skills acquired. There
            has been remarkable improvement in revenue collection, cash book management and
            utilization of funds.

            The PSM-TAP support has enabled the development of IFMIS. Although the roll-out
            has been slowed down by networking and availability of equipment, most of the work
            is complete and roll-out is expected to promote accountability and efficiency in the
            utilization of fundsby ministries apd in the districtoffices.

Internal Audit Department

       =    The Internal Auditor General, also the Component Coordinator, has said many times
            that support by PSM-TAP has raised the standards of the operations of the department
            and its now recognized by the Permanent Secretaries in Ministries as part of senior
            management staff.

            The capacity of provincial offices have been upgraded through provision of vehicles,
            computers and training of officers. The officersare able to make impromptu site visits
           to verify expenditures. This has improved revenue collection and procurement
            activities.

            The auditing process has now shifted fiom pre-auditing to systems audit. Systems
           auditinghas enabled the department to: addressthe weakness in the operating systems;

               enhance integrity and objectivity;identify risk areas; and promote audit planning. All
               this has resulted to more efficientand effective auditing.

               Incidencesof fraud have been significantlyreduced as the followingexamplesindicate:

               -   Detection of frauds related to procurement of computers and related equipmenthas
                   increaseddue to training in CAATS.

               -   Payroll anomalies and misuse of government vehicles through inflated fuel
                   expenses has been addressed.

              -
                   Streamliningof revenue collection and cancellationof inflatedorders for goods and
                   services has resulted from the specialized training undertaken.

PublicProcurementDirectorate (PPD)

The key achievements of the PPD through PSM-TAP support include: ~stablishmentof the
Directorate;Training of both procurement officers and procuring entities; operationalisation of Public
Procurement ComplaintsReview and Appeals Board; and the passing of the Public Procurement and
Disposal Bill. Specificimpacts reported include:

              Streamlining of the procurement process making it fair and enhancingprofessiona~ism,
              accountabilityand transparency

              Recognition of the Appeals Board by the suppliers as an independent appeals body.
              Hence suppliers have continued appealing in cases where they feel there was
              unfairness. This has caused the procuring entities and the suppliersto be more cautious
              in the procurement process.

              Reduced costs/expenses due to improved competition.            Savings have also been
              generated through quality, right amounts, timeliness and preparation of procurement
              plans.

              Another major achievement is the Public Procurement and ~isposalBill. This has
         ,

              empowered the whole function of public procurement by allowing the establishment of
              an oversightbody.

              As the Director of PPD said recently, PSM-TAP supporthas played a major role in the
              passing of the Bill as it enabled the Directorate to sensitize all the stakeholders
              including members of Parliament. By engaging all the key stakeholdersin discussions
              on the content of the draft Bill, a lot of input was given which enhanced ownership and
              the passing of the Bill with no major hitches.

              PSM-TAP also supported operations such that officers were able to visit procuring
              entities to monitor the application of the procurement regulations and establish the
             membership of the tender committees.

Information Technology Component

The Component,through the support by PSM-TAP, has been able to set up IT networks in a number
of Government buildings. They have also developed a training manual for IT staff in Government.

The IT strategy has also been developed and it gives standards for development of IT systems in
Governinent.

Legal Sector Reform Component

The performance indicators for the component were revised after the mid-term review to
accommodate the needs of the newly constituted Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. The
computerization process is now complete and the provision of networking in Sheria House and
CooperativeBank House (MOJCA)has enabledmost members of staff to access emailhnternet. This
has enhanced their research and exchange of information. The IT training has developed capacity
among para-legal personnel, state counsels, magistrates and judges. The impact of the skills is
demonstratedby the improvementof report quality and timeliness.

PROJECT PROCUREMENTREPORT

Central Procurement

Most of the goods required for use in the implementation of the project were procured centrallyby the
project coordination unit. These comprises of computer equipment, both hardware and software;
officeequipmente.g. photocopiers, fax machines, scanners etc; and motor vehicles.

Procurementby Components

To a limited extent, project components were issued with AIEs to undertake minor procurements.
However, one major procurement which a component undertook was the acquisition of servers
required for use in the implementation of IFMIS by the Accountant General. This procurement was
estimated to cost Ksh.30.0m and was conducted through International Competitive Bidding. For
procurement of consultants' services,the individual project componentswere mandated to procure for
themselves, and AIEs were issued for suchprocurements. The components accounted for the funds.

Team Work

              The Coordination Unit received a lot of support and cooperation from the World Bank
              especiallyas far as obtaining of No Objectionsis concerned.

             TheUnit also received a lot of cooperation fiom the project componentswho submitted
             their requirements in time and responded to issuespromptly.

             Within the CoordinationUnit itself, the members of staff displayedunity and teamwork
             and this resulted into efficientperformancefor each member of staff.

                                   Annex 1: Key PerformanceIndicators
                      Kenya: Public SectorManagementTechnicalAssistance Project

                                               -

PDOIndicator           Baseline                   Progress at the end of Project
Improved governance No coherentintegrated         An IFMIS was developedand piloted in two ministries
through the            Human Resource system.     -FinanceandPlanningandNationalDevelopment.The
installationof human   Weak financial             system is not yet operational. A Public Procurement and
resource capacityand   management system          Disposal Bill was prepared but not approved at the end
systems that will      includingprocurement       of the project. It had however reached an advanced stage
strengthen fiduciary   management (as at July 6, of considerationwhen the project closed. The IPPD
responsibilities and   2001).                     systemwas developed but currentlyused as stand alone
corruption in the                                 systems in 24 MDAs due to the lackof connectivity
public service                                    infrastructure.
IntermediateOutcomeIndicators (developedduringprojectsupervision)
1. Leaner and highly   The total number of civil  Only a total of 1,023civil servantsleft the service. It
motivated public       servants was 123,000(as    was planned to retire about 21,000 civil servantsthrough
service, better        at July 6,2001).           the VERS but this couldnot be achieved due to a legal
equipped to deliver                               writ filed against the schemeby civil servant's union. A
servicesto the public                             harmonizedpayroll and personnel databasesystem was
                                                  developed and in use in 24 MDAs. However,due to the
                                                  inabilityof the Governmentto set up a wide area
                                                  network, the IPPD systems in each of the 24 MDAs are
                                                  not linked to each other and to the IFMIS that operates
                                                  in the Ministry of Finance.
2. Efficient and       There was poor linkage     TheMTEF was introducedas a budget formulation
effective utilization  between government         framework. An FMIS has also been developed as an
of public resources    policy and the national    instrumentefficientand transparentfinancial
with enhanced          budget; Therewere          management. The systemhas only been piloted in two
accountabilityand      fragmentedprocurement      ministries. A Directorate of Public Procurement has
transparencyand        procedures and non-        been established with procurement committees in all
improved               existent of procurement    procurement entities. A Public Procurement and
transparency in the    committeesin public        Disposal Bill was laid before Parliamentsince May
procurement of goods entities;Annual audit        2003 but not enacted.
and services           reports are in arrears for
                       four years (as at July 6,
                       2001).
3. Establishment of a  Huge backlog of court      Theprocurement process for the computerization of the
framework for the      cases; there were poor     courts stalled. Theprocess was latercontinued and the
achievementof          enforcementof the rule of computers were delivered a few weeks before project
timely, accessible and law; and inadequate staff  closure. Intensive training on IT skills for senior officers
responsive legal       (as at July 6,2001).       of the Judiciary was undertaken.
system.                Senior officersdid not
                       have IT skills.
4. Efficient and       Not applicable             A project coordinatingunit has been in place sincethe
effeetive coordinating                            inception of the project. The PCU prepared regular
body and process that                             progressreports, work and procurementplans. The PCU
supportthe reform                                 alsoprovided implementation support to the
program acrossthe                                 implementingagencies.The Unit each year prepared
public sector                                     financial statements for the pro-

                                                         launches annual auditof the financial statements.Two
                                                         of the audit reports were received six months afierthe
                                                         end of the financial year which contravenesthe
                                                         agreement in the DevelopmentCredit Agreement.

       OutputIndicators
 Output Indicators                                     Status
 Component 1.Public ServiceReform
  1. Studiesto be completed on servicesto be           Studieswere undertaken on functions and servicesfor
 privatized, contracted out, or commercialized         privatizationin the Civil Service. Guidelinesfor
 and sound exit plans prepared following               contractingout of government functions were issued to
 completion of these studiesby December2003.           ministriesand departments.Very few of the ministries
                                                       used the guidelinesto contract out cleaning services.
 2. Size of civil servicereduced in accordance         Ministrieshave developed strategicplans throughwhich
 with exitplans by June 2004.                          they had identifiedexckss staff to retire under the
                                                       VoluntaryEarly Retirement Scheme.Only a total of 1,023
                                                       civil servants left the service.It was planned to retired
                                                       about 21,000civil servantsthrough the VERS. The
                                                       process was unable to continue due to the filingof law
                                                       suits by individualsagainst the restructuring,and by
                                                       Parliamentaryoppositionto the program.
 3. Develop and begin to implement an                  Ajob evaluation exerciseto gradejobs and pay
 affordablepay and benefits policy within the          commensuratewith remuneration in the Civil Servicehas
 MTEF by June 2004.                                    been undertaken. A Permanent Public Service
                                                       Remuneration Review Board has been established.
 4. IPPD to be fully operational in all ministries     IPPD systemshave been installed24 ministriesand
1and TSC by 2004.                                      departments. Due to the non-availabilityof a wide area
                                                       networksystem, the 24 ministriesare neither linked to
                                                       each other nor to a central system in the Ministry of
                                                       Finance. The Teachers ServiceCouncil Secretariatis also
                                                       using the IPPD system.
 Component2. Public Financial Management
 1.Core staff in ministries/departments trained in Staff training has been a continuous exercise. In all over
 respective ministerial budgetprocesses by 2004. 300 members of staff were trained. A few of the staff
                                                       benefited from overseas training. study'tours were also
                                                       undertaken to Tanzania, SouthAfiica andUganda.
                                                       ThisJ'includesa total of 86 officers trained in Financial
                                                       Management in the Public sector; 34 officers trained on
                                                       costing for the MTEF; and 38 officers trained in MTEF
                                                       training-of-trainers module.
 2. MTEF computer information systemlinked to TheMTEF computer information systemhas not been
 IPPD and IFMIS by 2004.                               linked to the IPPD and IFMIS
 3.75% of professional positions in C&AG's             11seniorauditors,principal auditors and assistant
 office filled with staff Gained to post-graduate      directorsof audit were trained and received degrees in
 level or a minimum of part I1 of CPA (K)              executivemasters of business administration. 14Senior,
 professionalstandardsby 2004.                         PrincipalAuditors and Assistant Directors of Audit were
                                                       trained and graduatedwithM.Sc. in Audit Management
                                                       and Consultancy.

                                                      16 senior auditors and one auditorgraduatedwith M.Sc. in      /

                                                ComputerScience whilst 3 Deputy Directorsof Audit
                                                were trained in General Accounting Office (GAO)
                                                Internal Auditor FellowshipProgram (USA).

                                                278 members of staffpassed the CPA I1whilst a total of
                                                265 passed the CPA III.

4.60% of professional accountingpositions       Over 600 officers were trained for all the levels of the
(Chief Accountant andabove) across              CPAprogram. About 20% of those trained have received
Governmenttrained to professional standards by theirprofessional qualification.
2004.
5. DevelopInternal Audit Manual by June 2003. An internal audit manual was developed.Thismanual is
                                                yet to be printed and circulated for use by internal
                                                auditors.
6. 30% of Internal Audit Staffto be trained on  A total of 230 officers of the Office Internal Audit were
the applicationof Computer Assisted Audit       trained in CAATS. The officerswere drawn from the
Techniques(CAATs)by December 2004.              Head Office and also staff located in the MDAs.
7. Operationsof PPD enhanced throughthe         Procurement equipment procured for PPD. Following the
completion of procurement equipmentfinanced     extension of the project fiom December to June 2005,
by the project by December 2002.                additional 16computersand accessories were procured for
                                                the PPD.
8.Procurement capacity of publicprocurement     Over 1200 procurement officers trained. Due to the
entitiesassessed and appropriatetraining        restructuring of the procurement and supplies cadre in
programs implementedby June 2003.               June 2003, majority of the trained procurement staff were
                                                removed from their positions. Capacities of public
                                                procurement entities were assessed and training programs
                                                developed. The trainingfor the entities are yet to start.
9. Public entitiesto have established tender    Tender committeeswere established in all public entities.
committees as per the procurementregulations
by June 2002.
10.Procurement regulations applied by all       Procuring entitieshave been applyingthe regulations.
public entitiesby June 2002.
11.PublicProcurementComplaints,Review           ThePublic Procurement Complaints, Review and Appeals
and Appeals Board establishedand operational    Board established and operational. It has heard a total of
by 2001.                                        176cases since inception in 2001.
Component3. Legal Sector Reform (revised
indicators afterthe mid-term review)
1.Case management system developedand its       No case management system was developed.
roll out commenced and incidence of
established number of lost files in the High
Courts reduced by 10%by December 2004
2. Average time taken fiom filing to disposalof IT training of has been undertaken for Magistrates, High
cases in the High Courts reduced from 5 years   Court Judges and senior staff of MOJCA. In all a total of
in 2000 to 3 years by December 2004.            485 staff members were trained. The computerizationand
                                                local area networkingwas also undertaken in MOJCA and
                                                the Office of the Attorney General. However, all this were
                                                done close to the project closure hence the target of
                                                reducing the average time taken fiom filing to disposal of
                                                casesin the High Courts was not achieved.
3. Pilotprogram on Recordingof Court            Recording of court proceedings could not start as the

Proceedings completed by December 2004 and     computers were delivered just at the time the project was
ready for replicationthroughout the country.   closing.
Component4. Project Coordinationand
ChangeMana~ement
1.Quarterly project reports on progress,plans, Quarterly reports prepared. Annual and quarterly work
issues, financeand accounting, and procurement and procurement plans prepared and submitted to the
are submitted on time and of high quality from Bank regularly till the close of the project.
2001 to end of project.
2. 70% of contractssigned on time, in          Less than 50%of contracts are singed on time. Therewere
accordance with procurementplans for whole of problems with international competitive bidding (ICB)
2003 to end of project.                        procurement processes due to interference by the
                                               executive.

                          Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing
               Kenya: Public Sector Management Technical AssistanceProject

Project Cost by component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         -
                                     Appraisal      ActuaVLatest    Percentage of
                                                                                           ,
            Component
                 -                     US$           US$ million
                                     million
Public ServiceReform                  8.10     1            4.85
Public Financial Management           6.70                  4.60             68.66
Legal SectorReform                    1.60                  0.64               40
PSR CoordinatingUnit                  3.20                  3.93            122.81

Total Baseline Cost                  19.60                 14.02
  Physical Contingencies              0.90
    Total Pro'ect Costs
             J
       Total Financing               20.50                 14.02


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$million equivalent)
                            I       I                  1           I       I
                                        Procurement Methodl
   Expenditure Category       ICB          NcB           other2     N.B.F. Total Cost

1. Works                       0.00              0.00         0.00    0.00           0.00
                              (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)  (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                       4.40              0.30         0.00    0.00           4.70

3. Services                    0.00              0.00        10.60    0.00          10.60
                            ( (0.00)0                                              (7.90)
                                                                           P

4. Training                    0.00              0.00         4.50    0.00           4.50
                              (0.0O)l           (0.00) 1    (3.30)
5. Operating Costs             0.00              0.00         0.70    0.00          0.70
                              (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.50)   (0.00)        (0.50)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00         .    0.00         0.00    0.00 .        0.00
                              (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)   (0.00)        (0.00)
  Total                        4.40              0.30        15.80    0.OO          20.50
                              (3.10)            (0.20)     (11.70)   (0.00)       (15.OO)

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuaVLatest Estimate)(US$million equivalent)

                                                Procurement     Methodl
   ExpenditureCategory              ICB           NCB                           N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                   other2
1. Works                            0.00           0.00              0.00         0.00     0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)    (0.00)
2. Goods                            1.64           0.98              0.00         0.00     2.62
                                   (1.64)         (0.98)            (0.00)       (0.00)    (2.62)
3. Services                         0.00           3.OO              3.04         0.00     6.04
                                   (0.00)
4. Training                         0.00           0.00              5.20         0.00     5.20
                                ----
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)            (5.20)       (0.00)    (5.20)
5. OperatingCosts                  0.00            0.00              0.20         0.00     0.20
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)          ' (0.17)       (0.00)    (0.17)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00              0.00        0.00      0.00
                                   (0.00)        (0.00)             (0.00)       (0.00)    (0.00)
   Total                            1.64           3.98              8.44        0.00      14.06
                                  (1.64)         (3.98)             (8.40)       (0.00)   (14.02)

   11 Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs includecontingencies.
   21 Includes civil works and goodsto be procured through national shopping,consultingservices, servicesof
     contracted staff of the project management office,training,technical assistance services,and incremental
      operatingcostsrelated to (i) managing the project,and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.


ProjectFinancingby Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                               Percentageof
     Component                 Appraisal Estimate               ActualILatest Estimate         Appraisal
                           Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank Govt. CoF.
Public Service              5.53        2.45                  4.74        0.07                  85.7    2.9
Reform
Public Financial            5.22        1.78                  4.45        0.2 1                 85.2    11.8
Management
Legal SectorReform           1.15 .     0.48                  0.62        0.02                  53.9    4.2
PSR Coordinating            3.10        0.30                  3.92        0.0 1                126.5    3.3
                                  '                        ,.
Unit
                        I                                                         I           I

                         Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
               Kenya: Public SectorManagement TechnicalAssistance Project


Not Applicable

                                       Annex 4: Bank Inputs
                 Kenya: Public Sector ManagementTechnicalAssistance Project

(a) Missions:


 Stage of ProjectCycle                                                      PerformanceRating
                            No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1FMS, etc.)
                                   Count             Specialty              Implementatn. Development
                    MonthlYear                                                            Objective

 IdentificationIPreparation
              July 2000                      6     PUBLIC SECTOR
                                                   MANAGEMENT(2); LEGAL
                                                    (1);FINANCIAL
                                                   MANAGEMENT(2);
                                                   INFORMATION
                                                   TECHNOLOGY(I)

 AppraisaVNegotiation
              November 2000                  6     PUBLIC SECTOR
                                                   MANAGEMENT(2);
                                                   LEGAL (1);FINANCIAL
                                                   MANAGEMENT(2);
                                                   PROCUREMENT(1)
              April 2001                    10     TTL (1); OPERATIONS(1);
                                                   LEGAL (2);FINANCIAL
                                                   MANAGEMENT(2);PUBLIC
                                                   SECTORMANAGEMENT(1)
                                                   DISBURSEMENT
                                                   (2);PROCUREMENT(1)
 Supervision

              11/25/2001                     1     PUBLIC SECTOR(I)               S      S
              09/25/2002                     1     TEAM LEADER (1)                S      S
              03/02/2003                     6     TEAM LEADER(1);ANTI-           S      S
                                                   CORRWTION (1); WST.
                                                   GOV. REVIEW (1); LEGAL
                                                   (1);INSTIrnIONAL (1);
                                                   RESTRUCTURING(I)
              02/06/2004                     5     TEAMLEADER (1); TEAM           S      S
                                                   MEMBER, MTEFICSR (1);
                                                   TEAMMEMBER, IFMIS (1);
                                                   TEAM MEMBER,PROC. (1);
                                                   TEAM MEMBER, FM (1)
              1010112004                     7     MISSION LEADER (1);            S      S
                                                  PUBLIC SECTORREFORM
                                                   (2); FrNANCIAL
                                                  MANAGEMENT(2);WBI (1);
                                                   SECTORMGR. & MEMBER
                                                  (1)

ICR
             July 2005                3      PUBLIC SECTOR             U  U
                                             MANAGEMENT(1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT(1);
                                             PROCUREMENT(1)




   Stage of ProjectCycle    ActuaVLatestEstimate
                                 No. Staffweeks            US$ ('000)
IdentificationJPreparation              19.4                54.8
AppraisaVNegotiation                     4.0                14.4
Supewision                              154.5              224.6
ICR                                      6.2                12.5
Total                                  210.5               306.3

           Annex 5: Ratings for Achievementof Objectives/Outputsof Components
                Kenya: Public Sector ManagementTechnical Assistance Project

,H=High,SU=Substantial,M=Modest,N=Negligible,NA=Not Applicable)
                                              Ratinn
Macro Policies                             Modest
Sector Policies                            Modest
Physical                                      NA
Financial                                  Modest
InstitutionalDevelopment                   Modest
Environmental                                 NA

Social

        Poverty Reduction                  Negligible
        Gender                                N/A
         Other @lease specz;jl)               -
Private sector development                    N/A
Public sector management                   Modest
Other-Access to Jmtice                     Modest

                    Annex 6: Ratingsof Bank and BorrowerPerformance
              Kenya: Public Sector ManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject


(HS=Highly-Satisfactory,S=Satisfactory,U=Unsatisfactory,HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1Bankperformance                                   Rating

Lending
Supervision
Overall


6.2 Borrowerperformance                              R   a

Preparation                                           U
Government implementationperformance                  U
Implementationagencyperfomance                        S
Overall                                               U

                          Annex 7: List of SupportingDocuments
              Kenya: Public SectorManagementTechnicalAssistanceProject

(i)   Project Appraisal Document,July 6,2001(ReportNo.: 21397-KE)
(ii)  DevelopmentCredit Agreement and its amendment
(iii) Project implementationsupportmission reports
(iv)  Full Borrower's evaluation with annexes

                           KENYA

 o SELECTED CITIESAND TOWNS            MAINROADS

 @ PROVINCECAPITALS                    RAILROADS

 @ NATIONALCAPITAL                     PROVINCEBOUNDARIES
                                  -.-
-1 RIVERS                              INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES

