                                                                                                                                  92193
Cambodia




           DFGG                                                   Learning Note 13
                             Citizen Service Centers – Systems and Processes
                                                               officer interacts
                        Lessons from the implementation of One Window

           Providing transparent services through a local Citizen
                                                                                 directly
                                                                           Service        with in
                                                                                     Offices   theCambodia
                                                                                                   customer through


                                                                                determined with the customer (often at the place of
                                                                                                                                        the
                                                                                whole process (often at the place of business) and fees are


                                                                                business); fees are often the result of negotiation rather
                                                                                                                                                     1
           Service Center mechanism requires process re-
           engineering and the development of new management                    than both parties observing official rates.
           systems. This learning note describes the various
           systems and processes that were put in place for the
           One Window Service Office (OWSO) initiative in
           Cambodia and how they have fared in reaching the
           objective of delivering accountable and transparent
           administrative services to citizens. This is an important
           model for improved service delivery, not only for
           district government but also for other government
           offices providing services to the people of Cambodia.

           The One Window Service Offices, financed by the Demand
           for Good Governance (DFGG) project in Cambodia,
           required the development of a new generation of systems
           and processes. These included: the cycle for applying,
           processing and delivering administrative services; technical
           support     and     capacity     development      processes;
                                                                                OWSO customers at the front desk, able to see into the Back Office
           communications/outreach processes;1 monitoring and
           oversight systems; and policy-level coordination and                 Technical support and capacity development. Since the
           oversight. Both internal reflection and external evaluations         approach to service delivery (both customer service
           provided constructive feedback to the OWSO management                expectations and the processing work flow) is new to
           team on the effectiveness of these systems.                          Cambodia, it was important that all OWSO staff receive
                                                                                training to meet their responsibilities and internalize the
           What Works Well?                                                     Code of Conduct. As discussed in Learning Note18, the
                                                                                national support team delivers a comprehensive
           Service delivery work flow and transparency measures.
                                                                                curriculum on the expected governance standards and
           The service delivery system was designed to improve
                                                                                technical issues related to processing the services. This
           citizen’s trust in local government and the efficiency and
                                                                                training is given to all new staff and local government
           transparency of administrative services provision.
                                                                                leaders, along with study tours and internships at existing
           Applications for licenses, together with supporting
                                                                                OWSO. Following the initial training, backstopping is
           documents, are submitted at a front office staffed by local
                                                                                provided by technical advisors who visit regularly to
           government personnel. The intake officer answers
                                                                                provide mentoring and oversight. Horizontal learning for
           questions, helps fill in required forms, and ensures that the
                                                                                OWSOs to learn from each other takes place during regular
           all required supporting documents are present. The
                                                                                workshops. Over 90% of staff surveyed by the national
           applicant pays the cashier according to the displayed list of
                                                                                team stated that the training was vital for them to be able
           fees and is issued an official receipt. The intake officer is
                                                                                to fulfill their new functions.
           given a copy of the receipt and submits the application to
           the relevant back office staff. (Each of the ten line                Monitoring and evaluation. Apart from the monitoring
           departments that have delegated functions to the OWSO                visits by national staff, each OWSO Chief and District
           assigns a back office staff person to process the                    Ombudsman (DO) is required to submit monthly reports on
           applications under the authority of that line department.)           the OWSO’s operations. OWSO Chiefs are using the M&E
           The customer is meant to collect their license, permit, or           data to analyze demand for services and the national team
           registration at the front desk according to the posted               uses the data to analyze, among other things, the levels
           processing times. The entire OWSO – front and back office            and kind of complaints received by the DO. In addition to
           – are visible to customers and other staff members.                  this quantitative monitoring data, the project partnered
                                                                                with NGOs to conduct citizen scorecards of customer
           This stands in contrast to the way administrative services
                                                                                satisfaction with the OWSO. Finally, external evaluators
           have been provided in Cambodia in the past, where one
                                                                                have conducted mid and end reviews to provide lessons
                                                                                and recommendations for improvements.
           1
               See DFGG Learning Note 19 on OWSO Communications and Outreach.
Cambodia




           DFGG                                                                                                            Systems and Processes



           External oversight. The DO’s role is to oversee the OWSO                         despite efforts to measure results, the M&E framework has
           performance and represent citizens in matters related to                         encountered a number of problems that have limited its
           the local government administration. The DO physically                           effectiveness in informing managers on what areas of the
           monitors OWSO operations and accepts and investigates                            model need amendment.
           complaints. S/he also provides information to customers.
                                                                                            Efficiency gains could be increased. The delegation of
           The DO works with the OWSO Chief, the district
                                                                                            functions has not been accompanied by streamlining of the
           administration and Council to address issues related to
                                                                                            regulations themselves. The omission of regulatory review
           poor performance of OWSO staff. To date, DOs have
                                                                                            during the functional assignment process means that many
           received few complaints, but those that were received
                                                                                            of the licenses, permits, and registrations provided by the
           were treated seriously, resulting in 4 staff dismissals during
                                                                                            OWSO are overlapping or burdensome. Another challenge
           the project.
                                                                                            is that the OWSO often does not function as a true One
           Policy setting and coordination. The OWSO/DO initiative is                       Stop, since some of the steps and supporting documents
           one of the more concrete aspects of Cambodia’s                                   are not delegated. Finally, organizational efficiency could
           decentralization policy. Reaching agreement on which                             also be increased by reducing the number of back office
           services should be delegated, and coordinating between                           staff. Most of the approval processes do not require highly
           the OWSO (which is under the District administration) and                        specialized staff, and could be implemented by district staff
           the line departments (which retain authority over the back                       trained to perform multiple functions.
           office staff and the regulations) was a crucial and
                                                                                            Meaningful delegation. Finally, because approval over
           challenging facet of the project. This role is played by the
                                                                                            licenses, permits, and registrations has traditionally been
           inter-ministerial Technical Advisory Group (TAG), which
                                                                                            associated with authority and rent-seeking, there is wide-
           reviews and advises on new OWSO policies and guidelines
                                                                                            spread reluctance to delegate steps, such as inspections.
           including the delegation of functions, fee setting,
                                                                                            Conflict between line departments and OWSO staff over
           coordinating with relevant ministries, line departments
                                                                                            who has the right to regulate certain businesses (the cut
           and sub-national administrations, and monitoring progress
                                                                                            off is currently determined by size of business rather than
           in implementation. As argued in other Learning Notes, the
                                                                                            complexity of license) occurs at the provincial level. The
           high level representation on the TAG, whose chair is an
                                                                                            OWSO was created partly to end onsite visits, which open
           MOI Secretary of State, has been important to its success.
                                                                                            the door to informal payments, but these have reemerged.
           At provincial level, coordination was initially conducted on
                                                                                            Resolving this issue, preferably by delegating all licenses,
           an ad hoc basis through the office of the provincial
                                                                                            regardless of enterprise size, to the OWSO, will be
           governor. Recently, this role has been entrusted to the
                                                                                            important to improving the system.
           Provincial Technical Facilitation Committee2 of the
           Provincial Council.
                                                                                            The Way Forward
           What could be improved?                                                          Cambodian regulations now require that all government
                                                                                            service delivery points begin following the OWSO practice
           OWSOs as a closed system. Initial expectations for the
                                                                                            of posting fees and processing times and issuing official
           project were that the OWSO/DO model would be modified
                                                                                            receipts. This illustrates the broader impact the OWSO
           during implementation to reflect learning and different
                                                                                            operations are having on public service delivery in
           contexts across the country. In reality, the same
                                                                                            Cambodia, but it is still not clear how other Ministries will
           operational setup and services are being implemented in
                                                                                            execute this directive.        Moving forward, with the
           all OWSOs despite evidence that this model may not be
                                                                                            completion of DFGG project financing, OWSO will need to
           appropriate for all municipalities and districts. This
                                                                                            reexamine the sustainability of training and M&E systems.
           suggests that the OWSOs and DOs are functioning as a
                                                                                            The TAG is also urged to consider simplifying regulatory
           closed rather than an open system.3 Due to legal
                                                                                            requirements and supporting documentation to further
           implications and challenging collaboration among the 10
                                                                                            streamline processes.
           different ministries involved, process improvement4 and
           organizational learning5 has been difficult. Moreover,                           The systems and procedures in the OWSO have set a
                                                                                            new standard for service delivery in Cambodia that is
           2 As defined in Chapter 3 of the Law on Administrative Management of the         having broader impact. This was achieved by tangible,
           Capital, Provinces, Municipalities, Districts and Khans (article 123 – 126).     relatively simple measures to increase transparency
           3 Open systems perform processes that allow them to adapt to constraints,
           threats and opportunities, through improving their human and physical capital,   and accountability. Despite limitations, the new
           or obtaining information needed to transform capability into desired services.   systems are also raising customer expectations for
           4 Process improvement occurs when people analyze how they think,
           communicate, perform and add value to their organization.
                                                                                            more customer friendly service delivery.
           5 “Organizational learning occurs when there is a capacity or processes within
                                                                                              The DFGG Learning Note Series provides quick summaries of the lessons learned
           an organization to maintain or improve performance based on experience”
           (Edwin Nevis, Anthony DeBella and Janet Gould, from MIT Organizational                in the field. DFGG Learning Note 17 reflects on lessons learned by the OWSO
           Learning Center).                                                                                                               team through project evaluations.
                                                                                                         Written by the Office of One Window Service Affairs with Erin Weiser.
                                                                                                                                                Series Editor Janelle Plummer
