 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14774

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Cambodia
             Project ID: P101156                                                 Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Demand For Good             Project Costs (US$M):                    20.00               21.42
                         Governance Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                     20.00               19.54
      Sector Board:       Social Development         Cofinancing (US$M):                      3.62                1.53

          Cofinanciers: AUSTRALIA:                   Board Approval Date :                                12/02/2008
                        Australian Agency for                Closing Date:             03/31/2013         09/30/2014
                        International
                        Development
         Sector(s):     Law and justice (30%); Other social services (23%); General public administration sector
                        (17%); General information and communications sector (15%); Sub-national government
                        administration (15%)
         Theme(s):      Other accountability/anti-corruption (67%); Participation and civic engagement (33%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Joy Behrens               Ridley Nelson          Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

To enhance the demand for good governance in Cambodia in priority reform areas by strengthening institutions,
supporting partnerships, and sharing lessons. (Financing Agreement, page 5, para 1) The project development
objective (PDO) in the PAD was essentially the same, except that it did not mention the country. (PAD, page 7, para
22)

According to normal IEG practice, this assessment is based on the achievement of the PDO as formulated in the
Legal Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
No

c. Components:

1. Support to State Institutions (Appraisal cost: US$ 15.91 million; Actual cost: US$ 12.33 million)
This component had 4 subcomponents, each corresponding to one of the state institutions (SIs) selected as
Implementing Agencies (IAs). IA selection was based on a multi-stakeholder consultation process and criteria around
4 institutional functions related to demand for good governance (DFGG): promotion of DFGG, mediation of DFGG,
response to DFGG, or monitoring of DFGG. (PAD, page 8, para 27)

     1A. Support to the Arbitration Council (AC):
      To sustain, strengthen, and enable scale-up of the AC's capacity to effectively mediate and resolve labor
      disputes. The AC, a quasi-judicial authority linked to the Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training (MOLVT),
      resolves collective labor disputes through voluntary mediation and mandatory arbitration. (PAD, page 9, para
      30)

      1B: Support to the Ministry of National Assembly -Senate Relations and Inspection (MONASRI):
      To strengthen MONASRI's capacity to inform citizens of their rights under the Land Law and provide an effective
      channel for complaints and concerns to be expressed. (PAD, page 9, para 31)

      1C: Support to the One Window Service Office (OWSO) and District Ombudsman (DO) Office:
      To establish an OWSO or similar office in one urban district in each province of the country (except Phnom
      Penh). This subcomponent builds on a pilot of OWSOs providing administrative services to citizens and small
      businesses under a single roof and in a speedy, transparent, and corruption-free manner. (PAD, page 10, para
      21)

      1D: Support to Radio National of Kampuchea (RNK):
      To expand coverage of RNK's Talk Back Program (TBP) radio show -- which provides opportunities for citizens
      to call in and question public officials about government policies, programs, and budgets -- as well as to
      introduce new feature stories on governance issues, and revamp the newsroom in RNK. (PAD, page 10, para
      33)

This component would provide support to each of the four IAs above to enhance and deepen their activities to
promote, mediate, respond to, or monitor DFGG in the ways described above.

The key inputs to this component were summarized as: (a) improving and scaling up the scope and coverage of
existing operations; (b) piloting new initiatives; (c) adding communication and partnership programs to support and
extend these activities; (d) building capacity through technical assistance (TA) and training; (e) improving facilities,
office equipment, supplies, and transportation; (f) providing performance-based salary incentives; (g) supporting M&E
and learning activities, (h) implementing fiduciary arrangements; and (i) using other anti-corruption, good governance
and risk management measures. (PAD, Annex 4, page 83-84, para 7)

At the time of project restructuring in October 2011, components 1B and 1D were dropped, and the remaining funds
corresponding to those components were re-allocated among the other components going forward.


2. Support to Non-State Institutions (Appraisal cost: US$ 4.27 million; Actual cost: US$ 4.90 million):
To deepen the contribution of NGOs, CSOs, independent media, and other NSAs to the DFGG functions (promotion,
mediation, response to, or monitoring of DFGG) (PAD, Annex 4, page 92, para 30)

This component would provide support to Non-State Institutions. Key inputs were: (a) funding to scale up the scope
and coverage of existing operations and successful pilots; (b) financing of NSA partnerships with SIs in component 1;
(c) funding for pilot or small-scale activities designed to take DFGG approaches into new areas; (d) institutional
strengthening and capacity building to new or potential grantees; and (e) robust and participatory monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) activities, in particular those designed to draw lessons from the social accountability experience in
Cambodia that would be valuable for the capacity building activities. (PAD, Annex 4, page 92, para 31)

3. Coordination and Learning (Appraisal cost: US$ 2.45 million; actual cost US$ 3.57 million:
This component has two main objectives: (a) to support effective implementation of the project, and (b) to raise
awareness of and build capacity in designing and implementing DFGG activities, across institutions (PAD, page 31
para 41; page 32 para 42).

In addition to support for professional and timely coordination of project implementation, this component supported
learning intended to build on results from Components 1 and 2 and promote greater familiarity with and
understanding of DFGG. Inputs to this component were to be (a) promoting cross-fertilization and synergy across IAs
as well as between IAs and NSAs; (b) an awareness raising and capacity building program, including an Annual Good
Governance Forum, seminars, workshops, and study tours related to DFGG; (d) a communications program; and (e) a
studies program, to develop content for the elements above, identify and analyze relevant lessons. (PAD, Annex 4,
page 98-99, para 51-52.)



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
Project Cost:
Total project cost was US$ 22.94 million, or 97.7% of the revised appraisal estimate. (ICR, Annex 1, page 31)
Although 2 sub-components were dropped, proceeds were reallocated to scale up other activities.

Financing:
The project was mainly funded by an IDA grant of US$ 20 million, with borrower contribution of US$ 1.44 million. At
project start, parallel financing by the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) was planned, in the
amount of US$ 3.62 million, of which US$ 0.20 million was designated for support to the Arbitration Council and US$
3.42 was designated for support to RNK. (PAD, page vii, and PAD Annex 5, page 102). An additional US$ 0.22 in
parallel financing for the Arbitration Council was planned, from contributions from employer organizations.

Borrower Contribution :
Actual borrower contribution was US$ 1.63 million (ICR Annex 1, page 30) Estimated borrower contribution at
appraisal was US$ 1.44 million (PAD, Annex 5, page 102).

Dates:
Project start-up was delayed by 3 months, with actual effectiveness date of June 24, 2009 (vs. expected effectiveness
date of March 31, 2009 in the PAD). The expected closing date was March 31, 2013. With changes in the project and
implementation delays, project completion was delayed by 18 months.

The project was restructured 5 times (all Level 2) (ICR, page 4-5):

    (1) December 20, 2010
    To take account of the cancellation of the Merit-Based Pay Initiative (MBPI) by the Royal Government of
    Cambodia RGC. The PAD had specified that a performance-based incentive system was being set up to provide
    performance incentives for implementing staff. The ICR observed that after MBPI was cancelled, project
    implementation delays arose.

    (2) October 14, 2011
    Mid-Term Review took place in June 2011, at which point the project had experienced implementation delays and
    had disbursed 34% of the funds allocated. The MTR process yielded a decision to restructure the project a
    second time, with three changes:
         (1) eliminate subcomponents 1B (support to MONASRI) and 1D (support to RNK)
         (2) streamline the Results Framework (including revision of some indicators whose definitions as articulated
         in the PAD were not measurable)
         (3) reallocate the proceeds among the remaining project components.

    (3) June 26, 2012
    To repay the project preparation advance for another project (Livelihood Enhancement and Associations Project,
    or LEAP), and reallocate proceeds across components.

    (4) January 15, 2013
    To extend the grant closing date by 1 year, to March 31, 2014, in part to align project activities with the new policy
    framework to ensure sustainability, and to complete planned activities.

    (5) February 3, 2014
    To extend the grant closing to September 30, 2014, to complete the Learning Program and transition
    arrangements.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rating: High

The PDO and intermediate objectives were very much in line with the CAS for Cambodia. Pillar 1 (of 2 pillars) is to
"Remove the governance constraints to attaining the CMDGs" with intermediate objectives under that:
  o improved environment for private sector development,
  o improved institutions and policies for natural resource measurement,
  o improved service delivery through transparent and effective public financial management, and
  o strengthened local governance and increased social accountability.
(CAS, page 20)


b. Relevance of Design:
Rating: Substantial

The design of this project approached the challenge of governance from within as well as from outside of government,
using a combination of state institutions and non-state actors as implementing agencies. Project resources could
enable state institutions to implement services in new or enhanced ways that could earn trust and confidence of
citizens, while non-state actors could involve citizens in social accountability work around the public services of the
same state institutions.

An elegant design feature was the anticipated benefit of interaction: with citizens expressing priorities and highlighting
issues to be resolved (demanding good governance) and government providing efficient, transparent, effective
services (supplying good governance), the hope was to catalyze a virtuous cycle where demand and supply for good
governance reinforced each other and built up momentum for sustainable reform.

The results framework constructed in the PAD, however, was less elegant. With 90 or so indicators and minimal
indications of a plausible causal chain, it proved too complex to be useful. The results framework contained indicators
that could not be measured or composite indicators whose components could not meaningfully be put together. Also,
the original results framework lacked baselines.

The indicators in the revised results framework adopted at the second project restructuring and reported in the ICR
(Annex 4) were more specific and measurable than those in the results framework of the PAD. This represented a
substantial improvement.

The PDO, which remained unchanged after restructuring, was stated in general enough terms that many intermediate
outcomes and activities could lead there, which could be seen as a weakness. However, the revised results
framework breaks down the PDO level indicators into 4 categories that plausibly correspond to key areas of
engagement needed to foment good governance: promoting DFGG, mediating DFGG, responding to DFGG, and
monitoring to inform DFGG.

The project components were relevant to achievement of the PDO, and the indicators identified in the revised results
framework were better suited to the activities identified in the project components.

The design included multiple sub-components with disparate activities, "originally with 6 implementing agencies in 5
ministries, some of whom had no prior experience in donor financing." (ICR, pg 13, para 2) Under ideal conditions,
this variety could have produced synergies across institutions. In practice, however, coordination and implementation
were cumbersome. Also, the ICR notes that the project scope was too complex for the original time frame of the
project, and that insufficient capacity building and associated resources were built in. (ICR, page 13, para 2)

Capacity and awareness building activities were a main focus under Component 3 (Coordination and Learning), but
capacity and awareness activities also had important roles in the work under Components 1 and 2. Spreading
learning out in this way made sense based on the principle of "constructive engagement," but might have added
difficulty to coordination of learning across components.

After the Mid-Term Review, two sub-components and their implementing agencies were dropped, thus simplifying the
design and coordination. The ICR notes that more attention to institutional assessment at baseline might have been
helpful in recognizing early on some potential issues.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The PDO was "to enhance the demand for good governance in Cambodia in priority reform areas by strengthening
institutions, supporting partnerships , and sharing lessons."

The ICR describes an agreement between CSOs and the government (NCDD) that led to the signing of the Social
Accountability Strategic Plan for Subnational Democratic Development (also known as the Social Accountability
Framework (SAF). This strategic plan is described as containing a vision, objectives, expected outputs and key
principles of social accountability and local governance, and defining "key strategies that will change the scope of
local governance processes, namely: information for citizens, open local budgets, and citizen monitoring, as well as
defining the key role of civil society in facilitating these processes." (ICR, page 12, para 3) The ICR further reports
that the implementation plan for this strategy was included in the RGC's five-year National Strategic Development
Plan (2014-2018) and also has been incorporated into government budgets. (ICR, page 16, para 3)

This codification of social accountability principles into the country's strategic plan and budget can be viewed as
relevant to the achievement of the PDO, with the understanding that many actors were involved and that this DFGG
project contributed to - but was not a direct or unique cause of - this outcome. Three of the IAs under this project
were involved in the collaborative process to develop the implementation plan for the SAF. Also, the ICR states that
involvement of NSAs was "highly significant" in achieving this outcome. (ICR, Annex 2, page 46, para 3)

The ICR also indicates that the grants to NSAs under the Non-State Institutions component "triggered changes in
local level practices and procedures." In communes, examples included transparent commune council budgets and
participation in council meetings. In schools, examples included implementation of codes of conduct, teacher
attendance survey systems, warnings regarding informal payments, and proper treatment of children. In health
centers, examples included improved management/oversight, display of fees, observance of rules, and sanctions for
taking informal fees. (ICR, Annex 2, page 46, para 3)

In the revised results framework, PDO-level indicators were grouped under 4 domains related to DFGG:
     1. Promoting DFGG in priority reform areas
     2. Mediating DFGG in priority reform areas
     3. Responding to DFGG in priority reform areas
     4. Monitoring to inform DFGG in priority reform areas

These 4 domains are considered sub-objectives for purposes of this assessment of efficacy. The "priority reform
areas" refer to the priority areas identified in the CAS: strengthening Private Sector Development, Natural Resource
Management, and Decentralization and Citizen Partnerships.

The discussion of efficacy below organizes project outcomes along the 4 sub-objectives (promoting, mediating,
responding to, and monitoring to inform DFGG), and within those indicates the priority reform area(s) related to the
project outcomes discussed. Below that, the project outputs are described. As illustrated in the table, each output
feeds several project outcomes.


1: Promoting DFGG in priority reform areas -- rated Substantial

    Outcomes related to promoting DFGG in priority reform areas:

    In the priority reform area of Private Sector Development,, specifically in industrial relations, the ICR indicates
    improved awareness among unions and employers of the Arbitration Council and labor arbitration process. As
    assessed by the Arbitration Coucil / Unions survey, this rose from 41% in mid-2012 to 74% in 2014. (ICR, Annex
    4, page 58).

    In the priority reform area of Decentralization and Citizen Partnerships,the project also saw some outcomes
    arising from the work of the OWSO/DO. The ICR reports that citizen awareness of services provided by One
    Window Service Offices rose from 24% (baseline in 2011) to 77% at the end of the project (ICR, Annex 4, page
    58, indicator 1.2), and that awareness and understanding among citizens of non-state actors' facilitation of social
    accountability were both at 79% at the end of the project, compared with 70% target (ICR, Annex 4, page 58,
    indicator 1.3).

    Outputs a, e, and f (in the table below) fed the outcomes above.


2: Mediating DFGG in priority reform areas -- rated High

    Outcomes related to mediating DFGG in priority reform areas:

    On mediating DFGG, project outcomes included improvements in perceptions of clients and stakeholders of the
    work of the AC (in the priority reform area of Private Sector Development), and the work of the DO and the
    support to non-state actors (both of these in the priority reform area of Decentralization and Citizen Partnerships).
    In particular, the ICR reports that percent of union and employer group representatives and other stakeholders
    that report a high confidence in the independence, credibility and effectiveness of the AC was 85% at end of the
    project , compared with the original target of 60% and a revised target of 76% (ICR Annex 4, page 60).
    The ICR characterizes the AC as meeting and exceeding its targets in terms of numbers of cases
    handled/resolved, level of confidence, and quality of awards -- while meeting integrity standards -- and gives it a
    rating of highly satisfactory. "The AC managed periods of significant industrial unrest, providing a solid
    non-political foundation behind politicized disputes. Within the arena of collective labor dispute resolution, using
    labor law and national industrial jurisprudence with minimum legal technicality, Cambodia's Arbitration Council is
    considered a center of excellence." (ICR, Annex 2, page 35)

    On the complaints handling system within the DO function, the ICR also reported percentages of DO clients who
    reported high confidence on various elements of the district complaints handling system: 95% for independence;
    85% for credibility, and 89% for effectiveness (ICR, Annex 4, page 60). Related to support for partnerships
    among NSAs and with SIs, the ICR indicates that the end evaluation reported "satisfactory results" on the
    "contribution of partnerships to the project development objective" (ICR, Annex 4, page 61). Also, from the
    survey used in indicator 1.3 related to the work of non-state actors' work, 75% of citizens reported positive results
    on governance of non-state actors' facilitation of social accountability (ICR, Annex 4, page 58, indicator 1.3)

    Outputs a, b, c, and d (in the table below) fed the outcomes above.

3: Responding to DFGG in priority reform areas -- rated High
    Outcomes related to responding to DFGG in priority reform areas:

    An interesting and unanticipated outcome in the priority reform area of Private Sector Development related to a
    Memorandum of Understanding on Improving Industrial Relations in the Garment Industry (MoU). First signed in
    September 2010, "this MoU committed the members of the Garment Manufacturers Association (GMAC) and six
    key federations of unions to binding arbitration of all rights-based disputes." The ICR indicates that the re-signing
    of the MoU in October 2012 signaled "continued confidence and strengthening the AC role in monitoring and
    reporting on compliance with the binding awards." (ICR, Annex 2, page 33, para 1) This outcome arose from the
    work of the AC.

    Related to the priority reform area of Decentralization and Citizen Partnerships,several outcomes were observed
    related to the work of OWSOs in responding to DFGG: Stakeholder satisfaction was high: 90% of clients, 96%
    elected officials satisfied with services in new OWSOs (ICR, Annex 4, page 59, indicator 3.2). The cost of
    processing transactions was reduced, although not quite as much as targeted (cost reduced by 42% vs. target of
    50%), and the time of processing transactions was reduced a bit more than targeted (time reduced by 54% vs.
    revised target 50%) (ICR, Annex 4, page 62, indicator IO1.4). (ICR Annex 2, page 39, Table 2.11 gives this as
    33-75% less time, and 40-144% less cost.) Also, more ministries delegated some of their functions to the
    OWSOs than originally anticipated: 10 ministries delegated 194 functions to OWSO (vs. original target of 7
    ministries, and revised target of 10 ministries delegating 125 functions) (ICR, Annex 4, page 62, indicator IO1.3).

    The ICR highlights as an outcome under responding to DFGG the events related to the national Social
    Accountability Framework and its inclusion into the National Strategic Development Plan and incorporation into
    government budgets (see first paragraph under PDO, above). Further outcomes described: "Policy changes
    resulted in the posting of fees in public agencies, the regulation to establish one-windows in all districts and the
    institutionalization of the national office of one window service office affairs. In addition, there were a number of
    changes to transparency and partnership in communes, as well as more specific or local changes in policy and
    practice (e.g., pay no-bribe signs, posting of budgets). " (ICR, page 16, para 3)

    Outputs b, c, and d (in the table below) fed the outcomes above.


4: Monitoring to inform DFGG in priority reform areas -- rated Substantial

    Monitoring figured prominently in all components after the second restructuring, and the ICR describes various
    ways in which monitoring information was used. An important element was the involvement of community
    scorecards and citizen reporting within the Non-State Actors component, in monitoring the quality, timeliness,
    and other elements of public services provided. Monitoring capacity varied and methods and consistency were
    not necessarily ideal, and for this reason this outcome rating is "substantial" rather than "high".

    Outcomes related to monitoring to inform DFGG in priority reform areas:

    In the priority reform area of Private Sector Development(related to work of the AC), an independent assessment
    found that 86% of arbitral awards were considered satisfactory or above, and that the AC used this information to
    improve performance (ICR, page 15, para 1).

    In the priority reform area of Decentralization and Citizen Partnerships,the ICR reported that under the Non-State
    Actors component, 226 communes, 33 districts, 153 health centers, 330 schools, and 5 OWSOs had their
    performance monitored through social accountability activities supported under this project, and that 99-100% of
    these state institutions or activities used the independent NSA monitoring data to take strategic management
    and/or corrective actions. (ICR, Annex 4, page 59, Indicators 4.1 and 4.2) In health centers, citizen monitoring
    found improvements in staff professionalism and timeliness, hygiene/cleanliness of clinics, better staff
    communication, better access to emergency services, and transparency of fees. In schools, citizen monitoring
    found improvements in staff attitudes/turning up for work on time, hygiene/cleanliness, teacher communication,
    and small physical infrastructure. (ICR, page 45, para 2)

    Also, the ICR reports that under the OWSO component, "5 NGO partnerships were formed & funded to both
    promote and monitor performance in 17 OWSOs." (ICR, page 16, para 5)

    Outputs e and f (in the table below) fed the outcomes above.


No outcomes related to natural resources management were observed, since the sub-component related to building
awareness of the Land Law (MONASRI) was dropped.

Also, in the priority reform area decentralization and citizen partnerships, no outcomes related to RNK were observed
(around citizen awareness, complaints and feedback to public officials), since the RNK sub-component was dropped.



Outputs:

The Arbitration Council, OWSO/DO sub-components and the Non-State Actors component exceeded the output
targets set at the beginning of the project and at restructuring. This achievement was helped by redistribution of
project funds from the subcomponents dropped at the time of the second restructuring -- but the ICR also credits the
commitment and effort of IA staff as well as the energetic involvement of citizens who participated in monitoring and a
variety of civil society organizations receiving grants under the Non-State Actors component. Each output fed into
several of the outcome areas described above.
                                                         Fed outcomes in: Promoting Mediating Responding Monitoring
   Outputs:                                                                 DFGG      DFGG        to DFGG     to inform
                                                                                                              DFGG
a The Arbitration Council heard 1,326 labor dispute cases, of which         +           +
  75% were resolved, compared with an original target of 210 cases
  and a revised target of 721 cases. (ICR ICR, Annex 4, page 58)
  (ICR, Annex 2, page 34, table 2.3 has slightly different figures:
  1,331 cases handled by the AC over the 6 years, and an original
  target of 200 cases)
b The Arbitration Council carried out outreach, training, and                           +           +
  dissemination of information relevant to unions and employers,
  partly to build awareness and understanding among stakeholders
  and "establish platforms of dialogue for better mediation", and partly
  to improve understanding about labor arbitration. From 2010 to
  2014, data collected from union representatives and employers
  indicated that in 2010, 41% were "aware of the Arbitration Coucil
  and labor arbitration process," and as of 2014 this had increased to
  74%. Also, as noted in the ICR the caseload of the AC grew from
  180 cases per year in 2009 to 330 cases in 2014, which indicates
  increased demand for the arbitration services (ICR, Annex 2, page
  34-35 and Table 2.5)
c At appraisal, the OWSO sub-component was planned to build or                          +           +
  renovate 24 OWSOs in each province of Cambodia, and to support
  the staffing, regulatory, communications, and other functions
  needed to make them into functional citizen service centers. By the
  project completion, 36 OWSOs had been established, completing
  435,562 transactions, compared with an original target of 22,000
  transactions and a revised target of 250,000 transactions (ICR,
  Annex 2, page 37-38 and ICR, Annex 4)
d This sub-component also included appointing and training a District                 +           +
  Ombudsman (DO) in each OWSO district, including a transparent
  system for democratically electing DOs and deputy DOs, training
  them, equipping their offices, and providing capacity building and
  other support. The ICR reports that DOs in the 24 operational
  districts, and 24 deputy DOswere trained and supported. These
  DOs handled 865 comments/complaints, of which 151 were
  complaints, vs. an appraisal target of 90 complaints. Of these 151,
  91% were considered "resolved", compared with an appraisal target
  of 40%. (ICR, Annex 2, page 39) (This part of the ICR clarifies the
  number reported under indicator 2.3 in Annex 4, page 58, which
  suggests that there were 865 complaints of which 91% were
  resolved.)
e Under the non-state institutions subcomponent, the project provided      +                                  +
  grants and capacity building assistance to non-state actors (NSAs)
  to strengthen their ability to engage in DFGG activities and --
  importantly from the perspective of the PDO -- to engage in
  participatory monitoring and evaluation of various public services.
  Through the Asia Foundation, 44 grants totalling US$ 4,895,745
  were awarded to 32 NSAs. 20 of those grants funded NSA work
  around community scorecards or citizen report cards. 23 grants
  funded semi-structured monitoring by NSAs of local authorities and
  service delivery agencies. All 44 grant activities involved
  promoting DFGG.
f As part of M&E, the non-state institutions sub-component also            +                                  +
  produced 24 lessons learned documents, learning notes, or case
  studies on citizen engagement, monitoring, and other topics
  relevant to social accountability. Also, this sub-component
  produced an additional 18 knowledge outputs (draft guidelines,
  tools, notes, and training packages) for the implementation of the
  Social Accountability Framework.

The OWSO component also set up a functional internal M&E and reporting system, which produced data used during
implementation, an independent study to produce a baseline and midline. A lessons-learned study "provided a basis
for dialogue on key issues," and the final evaluation noted implementation of lessons including "posting processing
times as well as fees; incorporating the OWSO under the district administration and providing authority for more
efficient staffing arrangements."

5. Efficiency:
 Rating: Substantial

The PAD did not include an estimate of the project's rate of return overall, citing the focus on governance and
institutional capacity building (PAD, page 172). Nevertheless, the project was expected to generate improvements in
governance and accountability and reduce barriers to growth. (PAD, page 35 and page 172) Two subcomponents
were showing some sustainability by the end of the project: OWSOs had an average cost recovery ratio of 273%
(ICR, page 18, para 3), and the Arbitration Council had attracted some multi-stakeholder financing (ICR, page 23,
para 4).

The ICR (Annex 3, pages 52-55) includes an estimate of NPV and EIRR of two sub-components, the AC and the
OWSO. A description of assumptions based on the actual numbers of cases heard and resolutions (by the AC) and
numbers of transactions (by the OWSO). The ICR also included an estimate of what the NPV and EIRR would have
been if calculated at project appraisal. This retrospective estimate used the number of cases, resolutions, and
transactions planned at project appraisal, which were lower than the numbers achieved at project closing.
                                                         Actual                           Retrospective
Component                                                       NPV           EIRR               NPV           EIRR
1A: Arbitration Council                                   US$ 13,077,369      258%         US$ 2,470,000      150%
1C: One Window Service Office                              US$ 6,381,976       95%         US$ -790,500         -9%

Calculated for this review:
Across both components, EIRRs weighted by actual                           144%                             38%
cost given in ICR Annex 1
The ICR (page 18) also cites a 55% reduction in the estimated cost of arbitrating a labor dispute case, from $2,095 in
2009 (at appraisal) to $892 in 2014.

For the Non-State Actors component, no ERR was calculated, but the ICR points out that about 8% of the cost of this
component was devoted to helping stakeholders transform the Social Accountability Framework from an ad-hoc
initiative to a nationwide framework (through design, development, testing, and training activities). The ICR also cited
outcomes that would result in more efficient use of public resources, accomplished within the relevant budgets:
  o improvements in performance of public service providers (two types)
       a. in health centers, longer opening hours, more reliable emergency response, more availabilty of medicines
       b. in schools, improved teacher attendance and timeliness, improved communication with parents, improved
            cleanliness
  o needs-based allocation of commune resources
(ICR, page 19, para 3)

For the Coordination and Learning component, the ICR lists learning outputs, mentions that the coordination of the
project accounted for 9% of the total project cost (compared with 8% estimated at appraisal) and characterizes
efficiency as "Modest" due to "early reported inefficiencies in coordination and the slow progress." (ICR, page 20,
para 2)

To support an efficiency rating of Substantial, the ICR (pages 18-20) explains efficiency of the project components as
follows:
Component                                                   Percentage of project cost        Efficiency rating
1A: Arbitration Council and                                              49%                              High
1C: One Window Service Office
2: Support to Non-State Actors                                           25%                          Substantial
3: Coordination and Learning                                             15%                            Modest
Dropped components (1B and 1D)                                            6%                         Low/Negligible
Repayment PPF for LEAP project                                            5%                   Spent on another project



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No

    ICR estimate                    Yes                                      144%                                     50%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The relevance of objectives is rated High because the PDO and sub-objectives, in either configuration, were highly
relevant to Pillar 1 of the Cambodia CAS. The relevance of design is rated Substantial because components were
appropriate for the objectives envisioned, although the design was overly complex. (For purposes of relevance of
design, this is considered a minor shortcoming, although complexity turned out to be a rather significant shortcoming
for the project overall.)

For the 4 sub-objectives identified under the PDO:

Promoting DFGG in priority reform areas is rated Substantial based on outcomes related to improved awareness of
stakeholders around DFGG elements especially of the AC and the OWSO/DO, and related to outputs of these two
components as well as the Non-State Actors component.

Mediating DFGG in priority reform areas is rated High because of the outcomes arising from AC work and DO work.

Responding to DFGG in priority reform areas is rated High because the MoU on Improving Industrial Relations in the
Garment Industry could be considered a positive response to the AC's DFGG work, and because of achievements of
the OWSO in terms of transactions processed and stakeholder satisfaction.
Monitoring to inform DFGG in priority reform areas is rated Substantial because the community scorecards and citizen
reporting within the Non-State Actors component led to actions on the part of public service providers.

Efficiency is rated Substantial.

Considering the above together, the overall Outcome rating is Satisfactory.


 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

The Arbitration Council, the OWSOs/DOs, and the work of Non-State Actors component -- including incorporation of
the SAF into the National Strategic Development plan -- were considered successes. The ICR (page 23) states that
structures were in place for these to move out of project budgets into program/government budgets. External
multi-stakeholder financing for the Arbitration Council had been committed for the short-to-medium term (ICR, page
23, para 4), and many OWSOs were generating enough revenue in fees to more than cover operating costs, with an
average cost recovery ratio of 273% (ICR, page 18, para 3).

At the time of the ICR, however, the enabling environment in the country still was considered risky in terms of
sustaining demand for (and supply of) good governance as envisioned in the PDO. The ICR mentions
"unpredictability and politicization of industrial relations, divisions between ministries, and weak middle-level
government capacity." Although project activities have led to governance improvements in specific areas, "country
governance is still problematic and a number of components will continue without external support." (ICR, page 22,
para 4) For these reasons, risk to the the development outcome is rated Significant.


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

The focus of this project on supporting demand for (and supply of) good governance made it innovative, and so in
some ways it was breaking new ground. The relevance to country priorities was strong, and the ICR indicates that
preparation included wide stakeholder consultation and a political economy assessment. However, the
involvement of 6 implementing agencies, two of which lacked experience working with the Bank, led to
coordination challenges.

As designed, the basic structure of the project (state, non-state, and coordination) made sense, but the state
institutions component was complex -- composed of 4 sub-components, each with a different implementing
agency. Two of the 4 sub-components were dropped in the 2nd year of the project due to implementation
compliance issues in one case and fiduciary issues in another, and the ICR states that better institutional
assessment during preparation might have flagged existing issues and provided better information for decisions
on what to include.

The PDO was defined in rather general terms. The results framework at appraisal was overly complicated, with
around 90 indicators in the extended version, some of which were not measurable as defined. Baselines were
mostly not defined at the time of appraisal, and in many cases were not defined until the Mid-Term Review. The
ICR also notes that although key project stakeholders had good clarity about the meaning of "demand for good
governance," in hindsight it might have been better to use a different, less jargony, definition for the main goal of
the project -- e.g. "voice-accountability-responsiveness" instead of "demand for good governance" -- that would
have been more meaningful in translation to Khmer. This insight about a key definition was reported at the end of
the project, which suggests that there were likely opportunities for better, more specific definition of the goals and
objectives at the beginning.

For these reasons, the quality at entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory .
   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The first two years of this project saw implementation delays, low disbursement, and cancellation of a government
policy element agreed at the beginning of the project, i.e. cancellation of the Merit Based Pay Initiative, which
affected core project implementation staff. Two subcomponents were found noncompliant with project
requirements, leading to the implementing agencies withdrawing. It's not clear whether a different approach to
supervision in the first two years of the project would have avoided these issues. The ICR states that both
implementing agencies involved did not have a "track record", and that these components had been identified as
risky (ICR, page 6-7). The Bank supervision team, based then in Washington D.C., conducted 3 supervision
missions before the end of 2010. (ICR, page 24, para 6)

In late 2010, the ICR (page 24, para 6) states that supervision of the project was transferred to "experienced
international staff in the country office," which enabled "more in-time support and problem solving." Intensive
project supervision work took place, along with involvement of the Project Coordinator. The Mid-Term Review in
2011 included a thorough assessment of progress and issues, and led to a Level 2 project restructuring which
discontinued the two components with poor performance, reallocated the funds to the OWSO sub-component and
the learning program, and revised the results framework to reduce the number of indicators, removing
unmeasurable indicators and revising others to make them more relevant. The revised results framework
included baseline data on a number of indicators.

The ICR (page 25, para 1) states that "given the sensitivity of dropping two subcomponents that were
non-compliant and the context in Cambodia, the team received the EAP Turn-around Award for project
supervision in 2012 for getting the project back on track" and suggests that four technical supervision measures
figured prominently:
  o "rigorous use of project management tools," i.e. the results framework and good governance framework, to
     manage and resolve project risks;
  o "thorough monitoring of results, and tracking of the quality and availability of IA reporting of each indicator"
     (using the revised results framework);
  o "intensive inputs to support the challenging project context"; and
  o "thoroughness and candor of the ISRs.

Quality of Supervision is rated Satisfactory.

With Quality at Entry rated Moderately Unsatisfactory and Quality of Supervision rated Satisfactory, Overall Bank
Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory .




   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

Rating: Satisfactory

Although the governance environment in Cambodia was considered weak at the time of project appraisal, key
reform-minded government stakeholders across 6 ministries were involved in this project and, according to the
ICR, were able and willing to take actions needed to establish relevant regulatory frameworks, resolve issues that
arose and ensure smooth implementation "even through post-election unrest in 2013 and concerns about a
restrictive NGO law." The regulatory framework remained relatively consistent. (ICR, page 25, para 5) There
was a 5-month delay in project effectiveness, and obstacles such as the cancellation of the MBPI early on caused
some issues and delays, but eventually these were worked out.

The ICR appreciates government's performance during project implementation in resolving the non-compliance of
the two IAs that were dropped, and overall the changes made after the MTR resulted in a less complex, more
predictable project. "The RCG made laudable efforts to maintain the focus on the PDO and to resolve issues
emerging in implementation..." (ICR, page16, para 2)

The ICR states that there was "strong commitment to the PDO from a senior Deputy Prime minister, the
relationships and coordination at the higher levels were consistent and open, with government willing to take the
steps needed to rectify and ensure smooth implementation." (ICR, page 26, para 1) At the end of the project, the
willingness of government to incorporate the Social Accountability Framework into the new National Strategic
Development Plan could be taken as evidence of this commitment.



   Government Performance Rating                              Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The ICR (page 26) notes a large variation in performance by the 6 IAs. Taken together, the ICR rates them as
moderately satisfactory.

The Arbitration Council implemented its work smoothly and effectively, making use of M&E to adjust operations.
The ICR notes that the AC was well-staffed and committed to good governance principles. Arbitrators heard and
resolved more cases than originally targeted, and the AC dealt effectively with post-election industrial unrest in
late 2013. The ICR rated the AC's performance as highly satisfactory. (ICR, page 26, para 4)

MONASRI's performance at the time the subcomponent was dropped was moderately unsatisfactory, and had it
not been dropped it would have been considered unsatisfactory. (ICR page 26, para 5)

The OWSO team met most of its targets and expanded OWSOs beyond what was originally anticipated, and
many of the OWSOs at the end of the project were generating more than enough revenue in service fees to cover
operating costs. The ICR notes, however, "a number of minor shortcomings" (lack of strategic capacity, slow
resolution of problems, weak communication) and suggests that, in hindsight, the extent of the adaptation needed
to replicate the OWSO model as much as too ambitious for the capacity and timeframe. The ICR rated the OWSO
performance as satisfactory. (ICR, page 26, para 6)

RNK's performance at the time the subcomponent was dropped was moderately unsatisfactory, and had it not
been dropped it would have been considered unsatisfactory. (ICR page 26, para 7)

The Asia Foundation demonstrated strong ownership and commitment, strong engagement with the other
non-state actors. It built a strong cooperative relationship with the RCG and produced high quality products. The
ICR notes minor shortcomings regarding slow M&E at a time of transition to new management, and overall rates
The Asia Foundation's performance as satisfactory. (ICR page 27, para 2)




   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The results framework as originally approved was overly complex, contained indicators that were not measurable,
and contained composite indicators that attempted to combine indicators that were not comparable. It was difficult to
discern an explicit results chain. The PDO as defined could be considered too general, given that many outcomes
could connect with it. In a social accountability project, indicators are understandably difficult to define, and
unexpected outputs or outcomes are perhaps more likely to come up than in other kinds of operations, but the
challenge of defining results for social accountability could mean that more attention should be devoted to a clear
results chain.

Despite the approximately 2 years spent on project preparation, the original results framework lacked baseline data,
indicating that baselines would be collected later. Following the MTR, the results framework was improved
significantly by streamlining the indicators, eliminating some that were not meaningful, and incorporating baseline
data.

M&E design might have benefited from deeper consideration of the counterfactual, that is, of what would happen in
situations or environments that would not experience project implementation. The main analytical comparison
envisioned was pre-post, that is, baseline vs. actual or end-of-project. Given that some components, such as OWSO,
were implemented in sequence in different provinces, there might have been scope to collect information in provinces
that used only traditional government service offices vs. OWSOs. With such an arrangement, the project could have
tracked results over time both in environments that experienced the project and in environments that did not.

Each sub-component appeared to have its own M&E arrangements, which fed the capacity-building objectives of the
project and followed the principle of "constructive engagement." The trade-off here was that there were relatively few
common elements across components. This limited comparability across components and likely made coordination
more challenging for the PCO.


b. M&E Implementation:

Particularly after the MTR, the ICR makes clear that a great deal of attention and effort went into monitoring. Some of
the funds from dropped sub-components were re-allocated to strengthen M&E, and supervision included intensive
monitoring of results using the revised results framework and the good governance framework.

After restructuring, the AC sub-component had annual progress reports, quarterly reports, and an "Enterprise/Unions
Survey I, II, and III" at baseline (2010), midline (2012), and endline (2014). (ICR, Annex 2, page 35). The OWSO
component tracked transactions and lessons learned. OWSO also had independent customer satisfaction surveys
conducted by NGOs, although the ICR mentions that these were affected by low capacity, and that methodologies
varied and therefore there was limited comparability to earlier surveys. Under the support to Non-State Institutions
component, TAF conducted M&E to help manage the grants and produced a midline review of grants involving 20
NSAs, an end line participatory evaluation of the second round of 13 grants, a 12-month post-grant check of 13
grants, and detailed lessons, case studies, and learning notes. The OWSO and PCO produced final evaluations.

The Good Governance Framework was not explicitly part of the M&E design, but the PCO used of this framework to
track compliance around 8 categories (including procurement; financial management; disclosure; civil society role;
complaints and remedies). Use of this tracking helped the PCO identify and act on issues arising in the project, most
notably the non-compliance by RNK, which was then resolved quickly. (ICR, page 11, para 5)

Quite a bit of useful information from M&E is provided in Annexes 4 and 8. In Annex 8, Beneficiary Surveys results,
some of the survey results summaries follow good practices (such as including numbers of respondents as well as
percentages; indicating whether and to what extent the survey respondents were representative of the wider group
being surveyed). A helpful addition might have been inclusion of the survey instruments themselves, or at least
providing exact wording of questions and response options used in producing findings. Clearer labeling in some of
the graphs and tables might also have been an improvement.



c. M&E Utilization:

Although the original Results Framework had shortcomings, the ICR indicates that tracking of sub-indicators did help
to identify problems with the 2 dropped sub-components, and that information from ongoing monitoring fed into
decisions about gender participation, OWSO outreach, and grant size for non-state actors. (ICR, page 10, para 5)
The lessons documents also fed into project operations and implementation of the Social Accountability framework.
As a social accountability project, M&E utilization was in fact a key component of the project design.

The OWSO component set up a functional internal M&E and reporting system, which produced data used during
implementation, an independent study to produce a baseline and midline. A lessons-learned study "provided a basis
for dialogue on key issues," and the final evaluation noted implementation of lessons including "posting processing
times as well as fees; incorporating the OWSO under the district administration and providing authority for more
efficient staffing arrangements, as well as changes to outreach to better reach key populations." (ICR, Annex 2, page
40)

One of the elements of M&E under the support to Non-State Institutions component was a series of learning round
tables with key grantees, which produced lessons learned in the form of case studies and learning notes. The ICR
indicates that this "structured reflection process" or "interactive process audit" fed into the design of the Social
Accountability Framework. Also, of the 24 lessons, learning notes, and case studies produced through M&E, 19 fed
into development of the Social Accountability Framework. An further outgrowth of this work was 18 knowledge
outputs (described above under "Outputs") created for implementation of the Social Accountability Framework. (ICR,
Annex 2, page 46, para 4)



M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

According to the PAD (page 41, para 103), the project was classified as Category B, triggering 1 Bank safeguard
policy, Environmental Assessment. This related to (a) whether repairs that would increase the output of RNK's main
transmitter could be done within internationally recognized general public safety limits for radio frequency
electromagnetic radiation, and (b) renovation and construction of OWSOs including measures to ensure safety of
workers and nearby residents.

The ICR states that no safeguard issues arose during project implementation. The RNK transmitter work was
discontinued at the second restructuring, and safeguard procedures around office construction were followed. (ICR,
page 11, para 2)

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

The ICR states that financial management performance was acceptable through early 2012 and then improved to
satisfactory at closing. Two financial management issues are mentioned: (1) an exchange loss of about US$ 312,000
which caused uncertainty in the IAs, and (2) slow disbursements in the first 2 years of the project. Audit reports for
the first 3 fiscal years were "slightly late" but on time in later years, and auditor's opinions for each fiscal year up to
FY2013 were unqualified.

Despite the issues experienced in the RNK component, the ICR states that procurement was "generally well done."
The ICR suggests that issues related to lack of understanding of and capacity for procurement, and that "this problem
was openly discussed and government coordination and resolution was commendable." (ICR, page 11, para 4)

Within the Non-State Actors component, all NGOs were procured competitively as firms as required by procurement
guidelines, but the ICR suggests that this requirement for competition was "inappropriate" in a project where
developing partnerships with civil society organizations was central. (ICR, page 11, para 4)

The project used a good governance framework (GGF) (PAD, Annex 11) to enhance and track project governance,
which included procurement and financial management.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

The ICR lists the development of the Social Accountability Framework (SAF) and its subsequent incorporation into the
country's National Strategic Development plan as an unintended positive impact.

This specific outcome may have been unexpected, but given that the project was designed to accomplish governance
reforms in Cambodia, it seems appropriate to characterize it as an intended outcome. This outcome is therefore
included in the "Outcomes" section above.

The ICR lists no other unintended positive or negative impacts.
d. Other:

The ICR (pages 21-22) commented on contributions of the project to reducing poverty, gender aspects, social
development, and institutional change/strengthening.




12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory        When looking at the outcomes and
                               Satisfactory                                     outputs related to each of the
                                                                                sub-objectives used in the revised
                                                                                framework, the project had important
                                                                                achievements under each of these, as
                                                                                well as unexpected outcomes likely to
                                                                                positively affect DFGG in Cambodia in
                                                                                the future.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant         ICR assesses the Risk to Development
                     Outcome:                                                   Outcome as "Substantial" (page 22,
                                                                                para 4)
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR lists a number of lessons, some for demand-side governance and social accountability, and some for wider
application. Four key lessons are summarized here:

Where citizen voice is constrained , working at the local level and using collective rather than individual platforms
can help produce improvements in public services . The ICR stated that Component 2 provided lessons that
suggested that individual grievance redress mechanisms were rarely used and far less effective than collective
platforms for social accountability, especially when facilitated by independent actors, with established local
relationships to citizens and officials.

In a project that addresses both the demand and supply sides of good governance , the self-reinforcing dynamic
can lead to improvements in voice -accountability-responsiveness -- sometimes in surprising ways . Positive
changes in policy and practice around citizen engagement, social accountability, administrative accountability, and
transparency can take place in a challenging governance context. These positive changes may not be uniform or
consistent, or even expected.

Improvements in government accountability and responsiveness arise from utilization of information , not from
information alone. In this project, information-only activities turned out to have limited effectiveness. Where
information targeted to inform and empower citizens was combined with monitoring processes, however,
responsiveness improved.

When project design , scope, and measurement are too complex , it's important to simplify , even when doing so
takes extra time and effort in supervision . At appraisal, this project had six implementing agencies, and a results
framework with over 90 indicators, and project performance early on suffered. Revision at the mid-term review,
along with intensive supervision attention to tracking using both the results framework and the good governance
framework, helped to turn the project around.



14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


Overall, the ICR was very well done. It provided a candid and comprehensive coverage of the project, including
restructuring and dropping two of six implementing agencies. It also included detailed descriptions of project
achievements as well as difficulties, and forthright descriptions of Bank and Government performance. Additional
data and findings provided in Annexes were very helpful, such as a note on the Social Accountability Framework and
Implementation Plan, a list of DFGG Learning Notes, and summary of beneficiary survey results.

In a few cases, there were minor discrepancies between data reported in different parts of the report (e.g. Annex 4 vs
the main description of outcomes), and an additional minor shortcoming was the lack of a Data Sheet in the final ICR
available in the Operations Portal system at the beginning of this review.


a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
