Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                p B       k t
Report No. 3480-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
September 14, 1981
Industrial Deve'lopment and Finance Division
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee
Sri Lanka has a floating exchange rate: on December 31, 1979, the
rate was US$1 = Rs 15.45; on December 31, 1980, US$1 = Rs 18.00; and
on August 31, 1981, US$1 = Rs 19.97. For purposes of the first Small
and Medium Industries Project, effective since October 1979, a rate
of US$1 = Rs 17.5 is used. For the proposed Second Project, the rate
below is used in this report.
US$1            =     Rs 20.00
Rs 1                  US$0.04
Rs 1 million          US$50,000
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
BOC                 -         Bank of Ceylon
CBOC                -         Commercial Bank of Ceylon
DFCC                -         Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
DSI                 -         Department of Small Industries
DTI                 -         Department of Textile Industries
EDB                 -         Export Development Board
EPR                 -         Effective Protection Rates
FIAC                -         Foreign Investment Advisory Committee
GCEC                -         Greater Colombo Economic Commission
GOSL                -         Government of Sri Lanka
hNB                 -         Hatton National Bank
ICICI               -         Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India
IDB                 -         Industrial Development Board
LIAC                -         Local Investment Advisory Committee
MTI                 -         Ministry of Textile Industries
NDB                 -         National Development Bank
NIBM                -         National Institute of Business Management
PCI                 -         Participating Credit Institution
PDCP                -         Private Development Corporation of the
Philippines
SMI                 -         Small and Medium Industries
UNDP                -         United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka              January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks              =      January 1 to December 31
DFCC                          =      April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ....................................     .........        I
II.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND .......................  ... too ...               3
A. Economic Setting . . . ... . ................... *.......           3
B.  Industrial Structure and Performance    .                          3
C.  Characteristics and Role of SMI        ...............             4
D.  Industrial Policy Framework        .     .                         6
E. Financing SMI .............0...  ....7
F.  Technical and Marketing Services               .     .    .9
III. STRATEGY IN DEVELOPING LIGHT INDUSTRIES...                            10
A.  Expanding Exports of Light Industrial Products .......            11
B.  Building Private Technical and Marketing Services ....            15
C.  Improving Management in Institutions Serving SMIs ....            17
IV.  THE PROPOSED SECOND SMI PROJECT ..........................            17
A.  Objectives, Scope and Institutional Arrangements                  17
B.  Lending Component               ...............19
1.  Small and Medium Industry Fund - NDB                         19
2.  Credit Guarantee Scheme.                                     25
3.  Participating Credit Institutions                            25
C.  Technical and Marketing Service Components          . .30
1.  Industrial Development Board                                 30
2.  Export Development Board                                     33
3. Coordination and Monitoring .34
D.  Industrial Policies and Incentives                  . .35
V.   THE CREDIT .                                                          36
VI.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . .................                        39
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS ................... .... o ..................         41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Sri Lanka during February 1981.  The mission comprised N. Barry, C. Bam,
and J. Pernia.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
Annex 1   -    Profile of Subprojects Financed under the First Small and
Medium Industry Project
Annex 2   -    Supporting Tables
Table 1:  Indicators of Performance in Large, Medium and
Small Industries
Table 2:  SMI Projected Demand and Supply of Credit
Table 3:  Interest Rate Structure of Credit Institutions
Table 4:  Financial Projections - SMI Fund
Table 5:  Costs and Sources of Finance for Technical
Service Components
Table 6:  Projected Disbursement Schedule
Annex 3   -    Supporting Documents Available in Project File
Annex 4   -    Map No. IBRD 15823:  Sri Lanka - Second Small and Medium
Industries Project



SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) is giving priority to private
industrial development, with special attention to small and medium industries
(SMI). The first SMI Project (Credit 942-CE), made effective on October 24,
1979, has included US$16.0 million in IDA funds for: refinance by the new
National Development Bank (NDB) of eligible loans by participating credit
institutions (PCIs); assistance in developing operations of NDB; technical
and marketing services in key SMI subsectors; and policy studies linked to
reforms in tariffs and export incentives. The proposed Second SMI Project
would build on these institutional arrangements, while increasing emphasis
on export-oriented industries. In this report, an IDA credit of SDR 26.7
million (US$30.0 million) in support of a US$52.5 million project is
recommended.
1.02      First SMI Project.  The first Project has contributed substantially
to the sound initial organization and operations of NDB, providing: a general
advisor and institutional assistance in support of NDB'S direct financing
activities; and an advisor, training, and frequent IDA supervision missions to
build SMI refinance operations. Training of SMI officers of the PCIs also has
been provided; over 200 officers have received local or foreign SMI training
prior to or during the first year of implementation, and 150 SMI officers now
are engaged full time in SRiI lending operations at head office departments
and key branches.
1.03      NDB and the PCIs have performed well under the first Project.  Com-
mitment progress has been about one year ahead of schedule; NDB's refinance
approvals totalled Rs 192.0 million (US$11.0 million) as of July 31, 1981,
with full commitment of the US$12 million expected by late October 1981.
Disbursements by NDB totalled Rs 102.9 million (US$5.9 million) and by IDA,
US$5.2 million; full disbursement is expected by the second half of CY82. As
of July 31, 1981 about 1,500 subloans averaging US$9,100 had been approved,
with fixed costs per job (excluding land) of about US$1,000. Major subsectors
*        financed have been building materials, agro-industries, and light engineering.
Over 80% of the subprojects financed are totally dependent upon local raw mate-
rials. Random samples of subprojects indicate that all but a few are operating
without notable problems. Annex 1 provides profiles of the S14 projects
financed.
1.04      Progress under the technical and marketing service component has
been slower, as expected, due to the need to locate suitable consultants,
construct facilities, and build staff for the subsector schemes.  Steps have
been taken to ensure that the rubber products service center, light engineer-
ing common facilities and subcontracting exchange become fully operational
during CY81.  The private handloom export company has been established and
consultancy to launch the Garment Training Institute has been completed.  Full
disbursement of the technical and marketing service component is expected by
the end of CY82.



-2-
1.05      The Second SMI Project would accelerate growth and productivity
improvements in SMIs, tapping the sector's scope for value added, low cost
employment generation, and export earnings. IDA would provide US$28 million
equivalent for partial refinance by the NDB of SMI term loans made by the
credit institutions. The US$2 million technical and marketing services compo-
nent would include improvements in SMI extension services by the Industrial
Development Board (IDB), with field-level coaching of regional extension
officers, an SMI consultancy fund to tap knowhow of the local private sector
in solving problems of SMIs, and expansion of service facilities for light
engineering SMIs. The Second SMI Project would give increased emphasis to
exports and related supply development, financing the Export Development Board
(EDB) program for practical consultancy and training, sales trips, policy
studies, and pilot projects involving exporters and export-oriented manufac-
turers in key light industrial products. The Second Credit also would finance
training and consultancy to improve SMI lending capabilities and overall
operations of NDB and the banks.
1.06      Other Bank Group Financing of the industrial sector in Sri Lanka
has comprised: two loans and two credits to the Development Finance Corpor-
ation of Ceylon (DFCC), totalling US$24.5 million equivalent to finance
larger enterprises; IFC equity in DFCC and the Lanka Orient Leasing Company;
two IFC industrial operations; a training project for the construction indus-
try; and two IFC credits, totalling US$7 million equivalent, to the Bank of
Ceylon (BOC). The first IFC loan to BOC, made effective in 1979, consisted
of US$2 million for term loans to firms with fixed assets of below Rs 6
million (US$385,000); the second IFC loan is geared to larger enterprises
with eligible subloans ranging from 83,000 to US$1 million. Under its
second loan, IFC plans to continue its institution-building efforts with BOC,
with consultancy financed by UNDP. IDA and ADB credits and loans to DFCC
have focussed mainly on term financing of larger industries, although recent
loans have included small allocations for smaller enterprises. ADB recently
has appraised a US$1.0 million loan to NDB for its direct lending to large
industry; an IDA credit for direct NDB finance of large public and private
enterprises is under preparation. A 1979 Industrial Sector mission high-
lighted the need to improve the tariff system and export incentives; finance
for studies in these areas was provided under SMI I; related policy reforms
are expected during the implementation period of the Second SMI Project. The
proposed Second SMI Project provides IDA with the opportunity to continue
supporting GOSL in its objectives of developing SMIs, which represent the
major segment of private industry.



- 3 -
II.   SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01      The private sector has responded favorably to the post-1977 liberali-
zation measures; private investment was high in 1980 and GDP grew by nearly
6%, more than double the annual growth rates during the 1970-77 period.
Imports have grown substantially from 1978-80, with the composition shifting
markedly from consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods. Investment
in export industries has increased although actual export growth has been
disappointing and concentrated in a few lines. In spite of these favorable
developments, major public spending on infrastructure combined with unsatis-
factory performance in the tree crop sector, public corporations and exports
threaten the soundness of the economy. Inflation, trade, and budget deficits
increased dramatically in 1980 and foreign exchange reserves have declined to
precariously low levels. GOSL has taken some steps to address these problems;
further measures to fuel private sector output and exports while controlling
public expenditures will be of critical importance.
B. Industrial Structure and Performance
2.02      Manufacturing industries consist of:  29 public sector corporations;
about 9,000 registered private factories composed largely of small and medium
industry firms with fixed assets of under Rs 1 million; 1/ and over 20,000
unregistered small and cottage industries. In 1978, these three groups had
roughly equal shares in industrial value added. Growth rates in industry 2/
have slowed from 7.8% in 1978 to 4.6% in 1979, and to only about 0.8% in 1980.
However, this poor overall performance hides contrasting patterns in different
industrial segments. In 1980, value added in processing of traditional tree
crops, representing about 35% of industry, declined by nearly 10% due to
drought and resultant raw material shortages. Output by public corporations,
excluding the petroleum refinery, declined by 6%. In contrast, output value in
private factory industries 3/ grew by an average of 7.2% in the 1977-80 period
and small cottage industries grew by 9.4%. Related sectors, construction and
mining, grew by about 20% and 9% annually during the 1977-80 period. In 1980,
manufacturing, mining and construction represented about 29% of GDP, slightly
more than agriculture's 24% share. 4/
1/   Fixed assets here are defined as plant and equipment at original cost;
land and buildings are excluded.
2/   Industrial value added represents about 14% of GDP.
31   Excluding firms under the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC)
on and off the export processing zone (para. 2.11).
4/   Agriculture includes also forestry and fishing; mining refers to mining
and quarrying.



-4-
2.03      Manufacturing exports, excluding petroleum, nearly doubled from 1978
to 1979, slowing to 31% in 1980. While growth in garment exports dominated in
both years, 1/ exports of seafood, ceramics, rubber and metal products also
showed substantial increases in 1979; however in 1980, seafood exports declined,
and exports in the smaller product groups stagnated. The pattern of export
industries approved by the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC) reflect
this concentration in textiles: over 40% of the approvals and 50% of the
signed contracts from 1978-1980 have been for wearing apparel and textiles.
Likewise, nearly 30% of the approvals by the Foreign Investment Advisory
Committee (FIAC) has been in garments. Fabricated metal products, rubber
products, and food processing together represent about 45% of FIAC and about
30% of GCEC approvals. However, these promising light industrial product
groups have been characterized by longer gestation periods and higher dropout
rates between approval and contract signing than in the case of "easier"
garment establishments. While garment industries can be launched with short-
term training and limited local inputs or infrastructure, major increases in
other key export industries with higher local value-added will require: more
systematic promotion to attract appropriate partners; technical assistance to
upgrade designs, skills and technology; improvements in linkage industries
such as engineering; and policy modifications to make exporting at least as
attractive as import substitution.
2.04      During the post-1977 period, GOSL has replaced quantitative import
controls with tariffs. Local industries, some still being protected by sub-
stantial tariffs, have faced increased competition from imports. The rapid
increase in approvals for establishing industries and demand for term credit
by SMIs (para 2.16) indicates that local industries in most product groups
have benefitted from liberalized access to imported inputs and equipment, and
have shown a buoyancy in responding to competition. Growth has been notable
in building materials and construction, several metal and food product lines,
and certain rubber and plastics products. Problems with unemployment and low
capacity utilization have been eased. However, adjustments in the industrial
structure have occurred with some of the least efficient firms suffering as a
result of import liberalization. Measures to increase finance, technical
services, and market assistance in promising light industrial product groups
will be necessary to sustain growth in private manufacturing and to promote
accelerated exports in areas with high value added. Special attention to the
needs of SMI is warranted in view of their predominance, potential to manufac-
ture competitive products for local and export markets, and need for special
credit, technical and marketing services.
C. Characteristics and Role of SMI
2.05      Shares.  Small and medium industries (SMI) continue to dominate pri-
vate manufacturing. 2/ In 1978, only 5% of registered private firms had fixed
1/   Exports grew from 22% to 35% of the value of total industrial output from
1978 to 1979, largely as a result of growth in garment exports; garments
represented 20% of industrial exports in 1978 and 26% in 1979.
2/   Small and medium industries are defined by GOSL as firms with plant and
equipment (original cost) excluding land and buildings of less than Rs 2
million.



-5-
assets exceeding Rs 1 million; none of the unregistered firms had fixed assets
exceeding this investment amount. In the 1978-80 period, the Local Investment
Advisory Committee approved nearly 5,000 industrial investments, averaging
Rs 600,000 (US$34,000) per unit. SMIs account for over 90% of private indus-
trial units, over 70% of employment and over 55% of value added in private
manufacturing (Annex 2, Table 1). 1/ The only substantial increases in larger
industrial investment and output during 1978-80 have been among firms involving
foreign capital, approved either by the GCEC or FIAC. Together, about 300
manufacturing firms have been approved during 1978-80; if implemented, these
approvals would represent Rs 7.4 billion (US$370.0 million) in total investments,
with GCEC firms averaging Rs 33.1 million and FIAC firms averaging Rs 17.2
million. However, only about 25% of these approved firms are in commercial
operation, and the number to be implemented is uncertain.
2.06      Geographical Distribution.  About 65% of registered SMIs are in
and around Colombo, with secondary concentrations in the Kalutara, Kandy,
Matara, jaffna, Galle and Kurunegala districts (Map, Annex 4). Unregistered
small and cottage industries are more widely dispersed among small towns and
villages, the Colombo district representing only about 30% of the units. 2/
While unregistered small firms are characterized by wide dispersal, the major
product lines are concentrated in varying districts, depending upon location
of raw materials or market access. In each of the major ten SCI product
lines, which account for 60% of the 15,500 units in the 300 product lines
defined by IDB, three districts contain over 50% of the units.
2.07      Subsectoral Distribution.  The main SMI product groups, constituting
about 90% of the employment and 85% of the investment in registered SMIs, are
textiles and garments, light engineering, rubber and chemical goods, wood and
paper products (Annex 1, Table 1). Most LIAC approvals during 1978-80 have
been in these groups, as well as building materials in response to rapid
growth in public and private construction. Product concentrations among
unregistered SCIs are found in related lines: handlooms, pottery, jaggery,
blacksmithing, sheet rubber, rice mills, and bricks. However, several of these
traditional products have been unsuccessful in competing with local or imported
items manufactured by labor-intensive modern firms.
2.08      Prospects for Local Markets.  Imports of consumer, intermediate
and investment goods all have increased rapidly during the post-1977 period,
growing by 36%, 30%, 3/ and 39% respectively in the 1978-80 period. Import
substitution prospects in capital goods probably are limited to a portion of
machinery, equipment, spares and building materials which constituted 65% of
the US$492 million in capital goods imported in 1980. Intermediate goods
consist mainly of petroleum, fertilizer and chemicals, in which StMs have no
role. Most of the consumer goods imported during this period consisted of
food products and textiles. Agroindustries have significant scope for SMI
development with growth depending largely upon expansion of agricultural output.
I/   Based upoIn a 40% sample of registered firms in 1977.
2/   Source:  Industrial Development Board, Survey of Unregistered Manufacturing
Establishments in Sri Lanka, 1976.
3/   Excluding petroleum imports.



6-
D. Industrial Policy Framework
2.09      GOSL has made major revisions in industrial policies since 1977,
replacing most import quotas and licencing with tariffs, and improving invest-
ment and export incentives for foreign and local entrepreneurs. However, while
recent modifications in both export incentives and import tariffs have been
made, improved measures are needed to structure incentives and tariffs on the
basis of comparative advantage and local value added.
2.10      Import Liberalization and Tariff System.  The original tariff struc-
ture, introduced in late 1977, was based upon: a low duty band covering essen-
tial consumer goods, most raw materials, spares and machinery; a higher duty
band for those goods considered to be non-essentials or for which adequate
local capacity exists to meet domestic demand; and a prohibitive rate on
certain luxury items. Subsequently, revisions have been made by a Tariff
Review Committee chaired by the additional Secretary of Trade, largely based
upon representations by local manufacturers. A top-level Presidential Tariff
Review Commission recently has been established to replace the Committee.
Initially, the Commission showed tendencies to favor arguments to increase
protective tariffs, in spite of evidence that most private industrial firms
have responded well to liberalization (para 2.04). A recently completed study
of the tariff system, with financing for consultants provided under the first
SMI Project, indicates a wide variance in rates of effective protection,
ranging from -50% to over 1,000%. The study team is preparing recommendations
for phased revisions in the tariff system to reduce the variation in effective
protection rates (EPR), beginning with areas in which rates are at the extremes.
These recommended changes would incorporate GOSL's revenue considerations and
protection priorities for key subsectors. During negotiations for the proposed
Second SMI Project, the status of the EPR study and plans to use the findings
in the Government's tariff reform program were discussed, with understandings
reached regarding a phased action program and continuing dialogue with IDA
(para 4.37).
2.11      Export Incentives and Promotion.  GOSL has made major moves to pro-
vide attractive incentives for export-oriented industries, particularly those
involving foreign investment. 1/ However, investment approvals have been
dominated by firms fabricating wearing apparel, since other light industries
require systematic assistance in product adaptation, supply development, and
market promotion (para 2.03). The Export Development Board, established in
August 1979 as the executive arm of the Export Development Council of Ministers,
is charged with recommending and implementing export development policies and
programs (para 2.20). While EDB gained credibility by providing ad hoc incen-
tives and grants to selected export industries, the Board has recognized the
need to develop a more systematic program of export incentives, based upon
1I   The specific incentive packages for enterprises under the Greater Colombo
Economic Commission (GCEC) and Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAC)
are outlined in Chapter V of the 1981 Country Economic Memorandum for Sri
Lanka. Firms approved by GCEC for location on or off Investment Promo-
tion Zones receive somewhat better tax benefits than FIAC-approved units,
but GCEC firms must commit to export 100% of their output.



- 7 -
value added. An Export Expansion Scheme has been approved which would provide
cash payments on increases in exports of non-traditional products; these
payments would defray part of the product and market development costs in
expanding exports. However, problems exist in the rough means of determining
value added, which is intended as the basis for the Scheme, and in the funding
source for the cash payments. The effective protection rates, now available
(para 2.10), could provide a more accurate basis for determining value added
in non-traditional export industries. Also, GOSL intends to finance the
scheme by adding 10% to import tariffs on items for which tariffs of at least
50% already are charged. This method could cause further distortions in
protection. It would be preferable to link revenue generation to a tariff
reform program which could reduce variations in effective protection rates
while increasing revenues which could be used for export bonuses. These
issues have been raised with EDB and other GOSL officials; during negotiations
of SNI II, agreement was reached that, by June 30, 1982, EDB would furnish to
the Association for comment, a report analyzing the appropriateness of using
effective protective rates to calculate value added under its Export Expansion
Scheme.
2.12      Public Sector Enterprises other than the Petroleum Corporation have
caused reduction in the overall growth in the industrial sector (para 2.02).
GOSL has maintained a posture of encouraging private industry while reducing
public financing available for public sector enterprises. However, until
recently, public corporations have been able to escape this "financial dis-
cipline" by increasing commercial bank borrowings and suppliers' credits.
Performance in a few public corporations has improved through management and
technology, and, in a few cases through private management contracts. However,
overall performance has been poor. With these public corporations constitut-
ing over 40% of industrial investment and 33% of value added, more concerted
efforts to improve financial discipline and performance are needed. GOSL now
has taken measures to control non-government financing of the public corpora-
tions. Under a UNDP-financed, IDA executed project preparation facility for
the National Development Bank, preparation of some projects involving the pub-
lic corporations is anticipated. An IDA credit involving NDB direct financing
of industrial projects is being prepared; under this project, it is anticipated
that public corporations would be financed with conditions applied to help
ensure improved performance.
E. Financing SMI
2.13      Since liberalization, credit has expanded in all sectors.  From June
1979 to June 1980, institutional credit to the private sector increased by
nearly 70% in nominal terms. 1/ However, a large portion of private sector
credit went for trade, particularly imports. 2/ Industrial credit represented
1/   Public development projects were funded largely through the budget, while
public corporations, until recent curbs, relied largely on suppliers'
credits and other forms of external commercial financing.
2/   Advances for commercial purposes represented 50.5% of total advances at
June 30,1980.



-8-
about 25% of total commercial bank advances at June 1980; while short-term
advances continued to dominate, medium- and long-term credit showed a modest
increase in share, from 19.6% of industrial advances at June 1979 to 21.4% by
June 1980. Loans to textile, food processing, chemical, and metal industries
constitute over 90% of private industrial credit.
2.14      The present Government has initiated several new measures to faci-
litate growth in industrial and export credit. The National Development Bank
launched operations in late 1979. NDB has established sound direct lending
and SMI refinance operations; however, NDB has not yet played a major role
in financing public sector corporations. During 1980, operations of the Sri
Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corporation were launched to facilitate pre- and
post-shipment credit. Also, the Central Bank has initiated a refinance scheme
at subsidized interest for term loans to enterprises which would export at
least 20% of their output value. Difficulties exist with this scheme, in using
interest rates as an incentive and in differentiating between good intentions
and actual ability to export; recently, Central Bank refinance under this
scheme has been curbed. During 1980, GOSL approved opening of Sri Lankan
operations by foreign banks; to date these banks have concentrated on trade
financing, foreign exchange operations, 1/ and term financing of joint ven-
tures. These measures are geared to increase availability of short and long
term finance, particularly for non-traditional export enterprises.
2.15      With credit effectiveness of the first SMI Project (SMI I), the IDB-
Commercial Bank Joint Scheme was replaced by an arrangement under which the
credit institutions assumed full responsibility for term lending to SMIs.
Previously, IDB formulated and appraised SMI projects and recommended them
for financing by one of the two public commercial banks. This scheme did not
work well. Project appraisal by IDB was weak and People's Bank and Bank of
Ceylon, not willing to rely on project evaluation by another institution,
rejected the majority of IDB's proposals. Responsibilities for supervision
were unclear, while the banks took the repayment risks. Now, these two public
banks, the two local private banks and DFCC are responsible for appraisal,
disbursements, supervision and collections of SMI loans. Performance by
these five credit institutions has been satisfactory.  Term credit approvals
under the first SMI Project has totalled about US$14 million during the first
two years of operation, and the credit institutions now have about 150 trained
SMI officers working full time on SMI lending.
2.16      Credit for SMI, which accounts for about 10% of lending to private
industry, has increased in response to the favorable investment climate and the
improved facilities for term credit. Commercial banks still lend most of their
own resources in short term advances; however, provision of refinance by NDB,
effective incentives, and training have resulted in substantial increases
in the banks' term lending to SMIs. Demand by existing and new SMIs for term
loans has been high, with only initial advertisement by NDB and the PCIs.
With sizeable growth prospects in agroindustries, light engineering, and
1/ Of the 21 commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka, 18 have established
Foreign Currency Banking Units; total assets/liabilities increased from
US$22 million at December 31, 1979 to US$211 million at December 31, 1980.
Of the US$180 million in advances, 89% were for under 6 months, with less
than 6% having maturities of over 3 years.



- 9 -
construction as well as in a range of export-related lines, demand for credit
by SMIs is expected to remain strong. As Annex 2, Table 2 indicates, demand
for term credit by SMIs during the 1981-84 period is estimated to be roughly
US$370 million equivalent. However, the credit institutions still are build-
ing their SMI project appraisal and supervision capabilities. About US$107
million of this potential demand for credit is expected to be met from insti-
tutional sources; the Second SMI Project would constitute US$35 million, with
US$28 million in IDA financing for 2,000 subloans. Other institutional sources
would include: NDB refinance using repayments from the first and second SMI
Projects, commercial bank credit, mainly for working capital, using internal
resources; and Central Bank refinance. The size of the lending component of
the Second SMI Project is geared to the capacities of the credit institutions;
the Project would involve substantial, continuous institution-building elements,
and if commitments and disbursements are more rapid than projected, processing
of a third project could be accelerated.
2.17      Interest Rates and Inflation.  Annex 2, Table 3 contains the interest
rate levels in Sri Lanka at the time of negotiations. Lending rates increased
during 1979-80, reflecting accelerated inflation. Commercial bank interest
rates to prime industrial borrowers increased from 15% in late 1979 to 18% to
19% for the same group. NDB and DFCC have kept their rates relatively low,
at 17%. Inflation measured by the GDP deflator was 24% in 1980. GOSL has
taken several measures to curb inflation, cutting or deferring expenditures
on public development projects, curbing spending by public corporations, and
reducing investment levels in relation to GDP. Provided that continued measures
are taken, inflation could decline over the next four years, averaging 16%-17%.
Given this situation, the initial interest rate for SMI term loans would be
set at 18%. These rates would be reviewed regularly and revised automatically,
according to changes in commercial bank rates to industry, to maintain positive
real interest rates in relation to medium-term inflation projections (para 4.13).
F. Technical and Marketing Services
2.18      The Industrial Development Board, an agency of the Ministry of
Industries and Scientific Affairs, is the principal SMI development institution,
responsible for promoting and assisting all SMI subsectors except textiles and
cottage industries. Under the first SMI Project, IDB has been responsible for
implementing subsector-specific schemes in rubber products, building materials
and light engineering; also, IDB is establishing a subcontracting exchange to
facilitate purchasing links between small and larger firms. IDB has faced
problems with the exodus of officers to private as well as other public insti-
tutions. IDB management plans to upgrade its performance by improving career
paths for extension officers, strengthening its regional services through
intensive coaching, and tapping private sector know-how in addressing tech-
nical needs of its SMI clients; IDB would be assisted in these steps by the
Second SlI Project (para. 4.29).
2.19      The Ministry of Textile Industries (MTI) formulates policies and
implements programs for the textile and garment subsector; under the first
SMI Project, MTI is establishing a garment training institute with outside
collaboration and participation of the Garment Exporters' Association. The



- 10 -
Department of Textile Industries, under MTI, has been successful in transfer-
ring most of its operations to the private sector, selling its powerlooms and,
under SMI I, fomenting the establishment of Lanka Handlooms Export Private
Ltd. to organize decentralized production and exports of handloom products.
The Department of Small Industries (DSI), under the Ministry of Rural Indus-
trial Development, is responsible for services to cottage industries; while
DSI has made some progress in developing the white coir industry, most of its
programs deal with promotion of handicrafts for local sale.
2.20      The Export Development Board (EDB) is the executive arm of the Export
Development Council of Ministers, headed by the President. EDB was established
to: advise GOSL on formulation of export development policies and programs; do
research and development on export products and markets; and act as the central
agency for export and related supply development, coordinating the activities
of key public and private agents. The EDB has been meeting since its legal
establishment in August 1979 2/ but major staff recruitment and operations were
launched in early 1980. The strong management and financial position of the
EDB have enabled it to perform well during its first two years of operation.
Management of the EDB places strong emphasis on mobilizing private sector
exporters and related manufacturers in expanding exports of light industrial
products. Several private associations and advisory committees of exporters
and manufacturers in major product groups have been organized; EDB intends to
use these private groups to implement subsector development schemes.
III. STRATEGY IN DEVELOPING LIGHT INDUSTRIES
3.01      Export and local market potential exists in several light industrial
product groups. However, the industrial base in Sri Lanka is thin, and several
key constraints will have to be addressed if this potential is to be exploited.
In non-traditional exports, products with high value added need to be adapted,
quality improved, effective market links established, and operations expanded
to meet volume and price requirements. Management in light industries and the
institutions serving them needs to be strengthened, with management more than
money hindering growth and productivity improvements. GOSL has taken several
steps to address these constraints but Government agencies face increased
difficulties in attracting and retaining staff to provide technical, managerial
and marketing services to SMIs and other key light industrial groups; many of
the best personnel are hired into the growing private sector. The Second SMI
Project would assist in: promoting exports and supply development of selected
light industrial products; improving management of SMIs and the institutions
serving them; and mobilizing private knowhow in providing technical and
marketing services to SMIs.
1/   In addition, the National Institute of Business Management offers problem-
oriented seminars for SMIs in key subsectors; these courses are financed
partially under SMI I. The National Apprenticeship Board arranges super-
vised, paid apprenticeships with private industries in a range of trades.
Several research organizations exist, but the orientation and experience
of most staff is academic and practical output is limited.
2/   Under the Sri Lanka Export Development Act No. 40 of 1979.



- 11 -
A. Expanding Exports of Light Industrial Products
3.02      Based upon analyses of markets and supply capabilities for non-
traditional exports, the EDB has identified several light industrial product
groups with significant export potential, provided that improvements in qual-
ity, design and organization are made. Major lines include: rubber products;
wood items; gems and jewelry; handloom textile goods; frozen seafood; white
coir items; light engineering products; cut flowers and plants. These product
groups are characterized by high value added; most depend upon local raw
materials and large labor inputs. By addressing the constraints blocking
growth, export potential could be tapped in meeting employment, output and
foreign exchange objectives.
Rubber Products
3.03      Characteristics.  Sri Lanka exports a sizeable quantity of raw rubber,
in sheet and block form; rubber exports are second only to tea, representing
20% of foreign exchange earnings and employing 500,000. However, less than 5%
of this rubber is used by local manufacturers. There are about 200 registered
private rubber products firms, of which all but 10 are SMIs, and several hundred
unregistered units. Most units have less than Rs 200,000 in plant and equip-
ment; fixed costs per job (book value) average about Rs 8,000 (US %30); and
value added/capital averages 2.1 vs. 1.2 in larger units (Annex 1, Table 1).
Registered private units produce mainly tubes, footwear, rubber toys, rubber-
ized coir products, gloves and elastics. Export totalled about Rs 14.0 mil-
lion in 1980 vs Rs 0.2 million in 1975. Sri Lanka has a comparative advantage
in manufacturing latex and dry rubber products; labor intensive processes are
suitable for most products 1/ and raw materials represent 55% to 60% of
costs. 2/  While rubber must compete with synthetics in some product groups,
rubber has superior characteristics for several items, including sporting goods,
gloves, and rubber bands. Also, increased costs of petroleum-based synthetics
give advantages to natural rubber. SMIs can be competitive in several product
groups, including footwear, toys, sporting goods and rice rollers. However,
importers require sizeable volumes and strong assurances of delivery reliabil-
ity and quality; SMIs may be successful subcontractors, if larger scale export-
oriented rubber products units can be developed. 3/ To date, only about ten
joint ventures in rubber products have been approved by GCEC or FIAC, with
only three in or nearing commercial production. Credit for rubber products
1/   Sri Lanka has labor cost advantages, even relative to Malaysia which has
been successful in expanding its rubber product exports. With a 4:1
ratio of unskilled to skilled workers, absorption of unskilled workers
is high.
2/   Dry rubber and latex, which constitute 60% to 85% of raw material costs
are available locally at about 50% of international prices and with
liberalization non-rubber inputs can be imported with 5% duty.
3/   The minimum economic size for units making most rubber products is under
Rs 1 million.



- 12 -
SMIs under the first IDA project totalled Rs 5.0 million for 17 units at
December 31, 1980. Major expansion of rubber products manufacturing capacity
and much needed replacement of equipment are expected to take place only once
effective technical and marketing services have been provided.
3.04      Some important steps have been launched.  IDB has improved its tech-
nical services and raw material supplies to rubber products manufacturers;
the first SMI Project funded intensive foreign technical training for IDB's
key rubber products staff; these officers have conducted diagnostic studies
of improvements needed in SMIs and have begun providing needed technical
services. IDB is constructing a major Rubber Products Quality Testing and
Product Development Center, financed under the first SMI Project; staff
trained under the project are providing technical services, and the Center is
expected to become fully operational during CY81. In promoting joint ventures,
EDB has sponsored the completion of detailed feasibility studies in five
promising rubber product lines. These studies need to be followed up with
active promotion, identification of appropriate joint venture partners, and
technical services to upgrade local capabilities. The Second SMI Project
would assist in these measures (paras 4.43 and 4.44).
White Coir Products
3.05      Production of white coir fiber, yarn, and woven products is well
suited to rural SMIs due to dispersed land, water supply, and raw material
availability. White coir fiber has advantage over brown fiber with earnings
per metric ton of Rs 20,000 vs. Rs 3,000. White fiber exports totalled about
3,000 tons or Rs 20 million in 1980. Potential is much larger, 1/ with as
many as 100 million green husks available which could be collected eocnomi-
cally. Major constraints in increasing the output of white coir fiber and
yarn are that: (a) the long period required and limited space available for
retting (soaking) the husks limit output; (b) the danger and uneconomically
high costs to decorticate and defiber the husks make the occupation unpopular
and costly; and (c) poor processing and spinning operations make a substantial
portion of existing yarn unsuitable for mechanized processing.
3.06      Assistance.  If these problems are addressed, the EDB calculates
that exports of production using white coir yarn could be increased from 3,000
mt to 15,000 mt by 1985 which would result in incremental rural employment of
10,000, and increased annual foreign exchange earnings of Rs 204 million. The
EDB is sponsoring about 5 pilot projects on the west coast to develop this
decentralized production. These pilots would be implemented by joint stock
companies with equity participation by manufacturers and exporters of white
coir fiber and products. Under these pilots, lagoons would be upgraded and
crushers added to reduce retting time from nine months to one or two months;
simple mechanized equipment would be introduced for decorticating, squeezing
and unravelling; and spinning wheels would be improved. About Rs 1 million
1/   Factories constructed to manufacture white coir products are underuti-
lized. Mechanized capacity for white coir mats is 5,000 mt with approved
projects contributing another 5,000 mt. However, only 50% of existing
capacity is utilized due to limited availability of white coir yarn.



- 13 -
would be required for fixed assets and permanent working capital for each
pilot; the EDB would provide a portion of the equipment costs. The first
pilot has been 'Launched, and the major coir companies are preparing proposals
for subsequent projects. The Second SMI Project would help finance similar
pilots sponsored by EDB (para 4.34).
Gems and Jewelry-
3.07      Problems and Prospects.  In 1979, official exports of gems and
jewelry totalled about Rs 494 million (US$30 million). 1/ While these exports
are substantial, significantly larger export earnings from gems and jewelry
are possible. Gem mining is done by small operations. Not all of the gems
and none of the precious metals needed for jewelry are available locally; the
import of gold and silver was banned, until recently, for two decades; and
the private sector has depended upon sporadic Government import and supply of
basic metals. As a result, black market imports have been rampant. In gem
cutting and polishing, quality control is lacking. Cutting techniques are
crude; while experts deem that Sri Lankan craftsmen are talented and quick
learners, tools are primitive and craftsmen have little knowledge of modern
manufacturing methods or designs. As a result, stones are crudely cut which
reduces the gem value.  Lack of selective mechanization and poor methods have
resulted in long labor time on each item which reduces price competitiveness
of products. Most designs produced do not suit export market tastes, either
for classical or fashion items. Lack of organization among the many small
scale miners, craftsmen, jewelry manufacturers and exporters has limited the
ability to introduce improvements in equipment, design techniques, and quality
control, or to produce the necessary volumes to meet minimum export orders.
3.08      Assistance Needs.  Some steps have been taken to address these
problems. The EDB has sponsored about three man years of outside technical
assistance to the gem and jewelry industry. While a substantial portion of
this assistance has gone to the State Gem Corporation (SGC), some measures
have been initiated which should help development in the private sector. Most
importantly, a Jewelry Manufacturers and Exporters Association has been esta-
blished, which was sponsored by EDB to help make the industry more responsive
to inputs on improved techniques, product adaptation and marketing. Secondly,
the ban on imports of precious metals has been lifted. SGC trainers trained
on design and techniques are expected to sponsor short courses for private
sector craftsmen. Further assistance is needed. Marginal improvements in
equipment could have major impact on quality and productivity; foot- and
hand-operated bench and dye presses, and simple cutting machiLies could be
manufactured in Sri Lanka. Tool and dye making capacity needs to be expanded;
while the gem and jewelry industry would not provide a sufficient base for
major expansion, these basic service industries also are needed for metal
products, plastics and ceramics. IDB has developed engineering common facil-
ities which will provide some of the needed back-up services; expansion of
private capacity also is needed. Other major areas requiring immediate atten-
tion are: equipment for assaying and quality control; improved purchasing
of a range of metals rather than a standard dimension of sheet metal which
1/   These registered exports are thought to represent a small portion of
total exports.



- 14 -
needs to be recast, milled or drawn by each craftsman; and training of exporters,
jewelry manufacturers, and craftsmen on market requirements for a broadened
product range. The Second SMI Project will support EDB in meeting marketing
and technical service needs, with project elements implemented by a private
association (paras 4.33 and 4.34). Also, Stage II of IDB's engineering common
facilities would be financed under the Second SMI Project. Small gem and
jewelry manufacturers would be eligible for loans under SMI II, to make the
necessary improvements in tools and equipment.
Handloom Products
3.09      Potential and Needs.  The handloom industry has had difficulty in
competing with local and imported milled fabrics for standard domestic cloth
requirements; local sales have stagnated at about 35 million yards annually.
However, export prospects for specialized textiles and simple made-ups are
promising. EDB's handloom specialist has identified significant scope for
Sri Lanka in exports of: light furnishing fabrics, particulary drapery; table
linens such as napkins and placemats; and handkerchiefs of handloom cloth. 1/
In these lines, Sri Lanka would not compete directly with Indian handloom
exports but rather would focus on smaller orders of higher quality items.
There also is scope in supplying handloom shirting fabric to Sri Lanka's
export garment industry; however, competing with large scale Indian handloom
factories will be difficult. Market agents, Lanka Handloom Exports Pvt.
Ltd., 2/ and a public company are gearing themselves to organize the decen-
tralized supply base for exports. These companies as well as production units
will need to strengthen their skills in: producing quality products; adapting
designs to western fashion trends; and securing small orders which can be
increased as production capabilities expand. While exports of handloom
fabrics are small, recent sales efforts in Europe focussing on light furnishing
fabrics and simple made-ups have met with market interest and initial orders.
3.10      Assistance.  EDB plans to assist in developing handloom exports by
organizing and channelling funds for training in improved handloom production.
The University of Moratuwa has begun providing short training to production
supervisors of private and cooperative units, with outside expertise provided
by EDB's handloom consultant. The project could support an expansion of this
local training activity by helping fund the chief consultant, trainers, and
equipment. Also, an international course in handloom design is proposed;
a curriculum combining theoretical and practical work with exposure to trade
fairs has been developed; and an appropriate sponsoring instutition has been
located. About eighteen private sector designers would participate from Sri
1/   More detailed analysis of product/market possibilities is provided in
D. Holbourne's report to the Export Development Board, August 1980,
(Annex 3).
2/   Lanka Handloom Exports Pvt. Ltd. is a private limited company, composed
of major exporters and manufacturers of handloom products; this company
has been launched under the First SMI Project.



- 15 -
Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. 1/ Funding would be available for partial equity
financing of commercial dye houses to achieve standardization and color-
fastness of dyed yarn and cloth. Finally, partial financing would be provided
for exporters' participation in fairs and sales trips, for companies with cap-
abilities to produce strong designs, reliable quality and sufficient volumes.
Wood Products
3.11      Potential and Constraints.  Exports of wood products grew from
Rs 700,000 in 1975 to Rs 28.6 million in 1979. A recent study for the EDB 2/
indicates that production capability, suitable for export markets, exists
in: quality wooden toys and games; handcarved tableware; kitchenware; masks
and figures; colonial furniture; and wood components. Traditional furniture
woods such as ebony, mahogany, and nadun are in scarce supply, while other
timber also is needed by the construction industry. Competition from con-
struction and the scarcity of appropriate woods of wide girth make expanded
furniture production difficult. Partial solutions to the timber constraint
include: (a) expanded production of boron-treated rubberwood by IDB and
others; (b) increased chipboard production by the Plywood Corporation to
meet needs of the construction industry; (c) utilization of waste wood from
the Mahaweli and other public works projects; and (d) concentration on small
items with high value-added such as wooden toys and household items.
3.12      Assistance Needs.  Quality standards, delivery reliability, produc-
tion efficiency, and designs suiting export tastes all require improvement.
While markets are strong, these aspects need to be tackled before major
expansion in wood product exports can take place. Prior to sponsoring an
exhibition or participation in fairs, EDB needs to use consultants to advise
major manufacturers on wood technology, export quality standards, kiln drying
and selected modifications in equipment and methods, to cut costs and improve
quality. EDB now has information matching wood product manufacturers in Sri
Lanka with interested European buyers; this should be used by the EDB in
making contacts to develop joint ventures for marketing and transfer of
technical and design know-how.
B. Building Private Technical and Marketing Services
3.13      Government institutions have useful roles to play in: providing
effective investment and export incentives for industry; identifying and
promoting promising product lines; and filling some gaps in technical ser-
vices to help improve productivity. However, government institutions have
difficulty providing effective consultancy and commercial services needed for
SMI development, due to problems in attracting, retaining, and motivating
1/   Participants from Bangladesh and Nepal would be sponsored under IDA-
financed small industry projects.
2/   Sri Lanka:  Wood Products, Alchemade Product Development Ltd., July 9,
1980.



- 16 -
suitable managerial and technical staff. Higher salaries are available in the
private and banking sectors and civil service rules make it difficult for a
government agency to offer attractive performance incentives. In contrast,
private commercial agencies have a direct, concrete interest in maximizing
efficiency. The comparative advantage of public institutions is good inten-
tions in developing certain target groups for economic and social reasons,
rather than focussing only on short term profitability. However, public
agencies are likely to continue suffering from the rapid migration of its
best talent to the private sector. The challenge then, is to have government
agencies tap the know-how available in the private sector, making it profit-
able for efficient private organizations to meet development objectives.
Some of this can be achieved by "getting the prices right" through export and
investment incentives and tariff revisions. However, more direct managerial,
marketing and technical services also are needed to address key constraints
blocking growth in SMIs and other key export-oriented light industries. The
Second SMI Project would assist GOSL in tapping private capabilities to meet
these assistance needs.
3.14      SMI Consulting.  The buoyant climate in industry, commerce and
construction has lured a sizeable number of engineers and other technically
trained Sri Lankan personnel to return from abroad. Several consulting firms
and individuals, established during the past two years, are providing technical
assistance to larger industrial enterprises; others are concentrating on civil
engineering activities. The Institute of Engineers has about 6,000 registered
engineers working in Sri Lanka, some of which would be interested in full or
part time consultancy. The newly established Association of Consulting Engi-
neers is an indication of this burgeoning activity. While a large number of
the mechanical, electrical, civil and chemical engineers have time and skills
relevant to improving productivity and sales of SMIs, many SMIs do not appre-
ciate the potential benefits of practical consultancy, and most are still too
small to readily pay commercial rates. Under the Second SMI Project, the
Industrial Development Board would establish an SMI consultancy fund under
which private local consultants would be hired to resolve specific technical
problems of small firms. This measure would help channel private know-how
into addressing the needs of SMIs and would assist in establishing ongoing
commercial links between SMIs and private consultancy (para 4.31).
3.15      Supply Base for Exports.  Sri Lanka has made rapid entry into
garment exports; substantial potential exists for adding value to traditional
tea, rubber and coconut products; and frozen seafood sales will continue to
grow if deep sea prospects are exploited and quality standards are improved.
However, Sri Lanka's thin industrial base creates constraints in rapid export
development in most product lines. Major foreign exchange needs will be met
only if Sri Lanka also takes advantage of growth potential in some of the
smaller product groups, many of which are based upon production by small enter-
prises. Prime examples are: cut flowers and plants; white coir products;
spices and essential oils; cotton handloom products; certain handicrafts;
gems and jewelry; wood products; and light engineering items. EDB intends
to mobilize larger scale manufacturers, commercial agents and other private
entities to organize and expand the decentralized production base for exports.
In the white coir pilot projects, for example, the EDB is paying part of the
costs which qualified private agents incur in making critical investments
to modernize and coordinate growth in segments of this decentralized industry.



- 17 -
Similar schemes would be appropriate for several of the other above-mentioned
products. The Ceylon Tobacco Corporation, as part ot its diversification
moves, is providing credit, inputs, and extension services to about 6,000
household orchid growers. Under the Second SMI Project, EDB would continue
to promote this "trading company" concept, recognizing the importance of
private agents in upgrading processes and products and organizing decentr-l-
ized producers. Also the EDB has been successful in fomenting private asso-
ciations and steering committees in main industrial export groups, inciuding
jewelry, rubber products, white coir fiber, and handloom products. These
associations are to be used in channelling most EDB sponsored consulLancy,
technical services, and export promotion ventures; active involvement by
exporters and manufacturers should help ensure that these inputs address
real needs.
C. Improving Management of Institutions Serving SMI
3.16      Sri Lanka faces major foreign exchange and budgetary constraints.
However, the less obvious but more fundamental problem blocking growth is
weakness in management--in public, private, and banking institutions. Local
private industry has been tightly held, family owned; this tradition has
limited growth and those firms which have grown often have not developed
delegation of responsibility or management information systems. Public and
private institutions often have impressive, articulate top management, but
middle management often is thin and most operating staff members do not have
obvious management potential. These weaknesses at the middle ar-d lower
levels, most severe in public institutions, are rooted in: the deterioration
of the educational system; poor career development policies; and failure to
develop the needed management systems. These problems need to be addressed
directly if economic objectives are to be achieved. The Second SMI Project
would tackle some of the problems of organization and management among
institutions serving SMIs.
IV. PROPOSED SECOND SMI PROJECT
A. Objectives, Scope and Institutional Arrangements
4.01      Objectives and Scope.  The objectives of the proposed project would
be to increase output, employment, efficiency and exports of viable SMIs,
building on institutional capabilities developed under the first Project, while
increasing emphasis on light industrial exports. The project would be national
in scope; a significant portion of the credit and technical services would be
expected to take place in secondary industrial towns. New and existing SMIs
would be eligible for loans, provided that their projects are financially and
economically sound. Major subsectors demanding credit probably would continue
to be agro-industries, light engineering and construction-related enterprises;
and, as a result of technical services of SMI I becoming fully operational,
lending to rubber products, handloom, and subcontracting firms also is expected
to increase. Loans from participating credit institutions and technical services



- 18 -
would focus on firms with plant and equipment of less than Rs 4 million
(US$200,000) with the majority of firms assisted having fixed assets of
under US$20,000 equivalent. Export development elements would be provided
in selected light industries, regardless of firm size. The project would tap
private knowhow in providing commercial and technical services to SMIs, while
building capabilities of banking and government agencies. Also, improvements
in the tariff structure and export incentives are expected, using information
generated through studies financed under the first SMI Project (para 4.37).
4.02      Components, Costs and Institutional Roles.  Major elements of the
proposed Second SMI Project would be:
(a) term loans to SMIs from participating credit institutions (PCIs)
with subproject review and partial refinance by the SMI Fund of
the National Development Bank (paras 4.04-4.25);
(b) training and consultancy for the SMI Fund of NDB and the PCIs,
to improve SMI and overall operations (paras 4.15-4.16);
(c) improvements in IDB's promotion and extension services, with
coaching of regional extension officers, an SMI consultancy
fund to tap private sector knowhow, and expansion of engi-
neering service facilities (paras 4.29-4.32);
(d) support for EDB's export promotion and supply development pro-
grams, including consultancy and training, sales trips, policy
studies, and pilot projects involving exporters and manufacturers
in key light industrial groups (paras 4.33-4.34); and
(e) funds for expansion of successful subsector schemes launched
under SMI I and II (para 4.35).
4.03      Financing Plan.  Total project costs would be about US$52.5 million
equivalent over a three year commitment period, with IDA providing about
US$28.0 million equivalent for refinance of SMI subloans and US$2.0 million
for technical and marketing services. The participating credit institutions
would contribute about US$7.0 million; SMI subborrowers, US$15.0 million; and
GOSL, US$500,000.  NDB would provide temporary bridge financing to cover the
lag between SMI I and SMI II (para 5.09). 1/ NDB would not be asked to increase
capitalization of the SMI Fund prior to project implementation, but would
provide additional capital, if needed, to cover the lag between NDB's disburse-
ments and its withdrawals from IDA. The IDA credit would cover: up to 100%
of NDB's refinance, or 80% of each eligible SMI subloan made by a participating
credit institution; and 100% of eligible expenditures for local and foreign
consultants, foreign training and trips, and equipment for pilot projects and
common facilities. GOSL's contribution would cover costs of land and buildings,
incremental salaries and overheads, and a portion of the export promotion
programs. The following table summarizes project costs and sources of funds:
1/   Since bridge financing is not a permanent expenditure, it is not reflected
in the cost table, to avoid double counting.



- 19 -
Project Financing Plan
(US$'000)
IDA      IDA     GOSL    PCIs    SMIs       Total
Foreign   Local
Subloan Component
Term Loans for SMIs            17,000    11,000        -   7,000   15,000/a 50,000
Technical Services
Industrial Development Board      410        210      200    -        -         820
Export Development Board           550       250      200    -         -      1,000
Training & Consultancy - NDB,
Credit Institutions             190        140      -      -        -         330
Expansion Fund                     200        50      100    -         -        350
Subtotal, Technical Services   1,350         650      500    -        -       2,500
TOTAL                          18,350 lb 11,650       500  7,000   15,000   52,500
/a   The US$15 million equivalent in subborrowers' equity to contributions is an
estimate, based upon the assumption that sponsorsr equity would represent
30% of subproject costs under SMI I; minimum equity contributions would be
20% of any subproject (para 4.11).
/b   The foreign and local portions of IDA contributions are estimates and not
allocations.
B. Lending Component
1. Small and Medium Industry Fund - NDB
4.04      NDB Operations.  The National Development Bank of Sri Lanka (NDB)
was established in January 1979 to finance industry, agriculture and commercial
enterprises, through direct loans, equity, and refinance. NDB issued Rs 600
million in initial share capital: 67% to GOSL, 17% to the Central Bank, and
8% each to the two state-owned commercial banks. 1/ The Ministry of Finance
and Planning, the Central Bank and the two state-owned commercial banks are
represented on NDB's Board. The organization has six departments: two for
direct lending; one for SMI refinance; 2/ and three for support functions.
1/   NDB's authorized share capital is Rs 2 billion.  Of the issued share
capital of Rs 600 million, Rs 450 million has been paid in, leaving on
call Rs 150 million, or 75% of the contributions of the Central Bank
and the commercial banks.
2/   NDB management is considering expansion of its refinance operations to
incorporate other industry groups, including large scale construction
enterprises.



- 20 -
Department heads report to the general manager, who is responsible through
the chairman to the Board. NDB's management has been assisted by consultants
financed under the first SMI Project. A senior advisor, whose two year term
expires in October 1981, has helped formulate overall policies, institutional
arrangements and operating guidelines. ICICI, under contract until December
1981, will have provided about 48 manmonths of assistance, training NDB staff
in appraisal and helping establish operating standards and procedures for
NDB's direct lending operations.  An advisor to the SMI Fund, whose one year
term has been completed, assisted in establishing SMI refinance operations
and procedures. These consultants contributed substantially to the initial
development of NDB.
4.05      NDB has made significant progress in developing an institutional
structure, recruiting staff 1/ and establishing satisfactory operating stan-
dards and procedures. By December 31, 1980, NDB had approved direct loans
totalling Rs 280 million (US$16.9 million) to sixteen projects, 2/ with equity
participation of Rs 6.3 million (US$350,000); Rs 77 million (US$4.7 million)
had been disbursed. To date, NDB's direct operations have been financed by
equity funds; however, the Asian Development Bank recently signed a US$10
million loan to NDB and an IDA Credit is under preparation.
4.06      NDB commenced refinance operations in November 1979, with the effec-
tiveness of the first SMI credit. To date, refinance has been limited to
subloans made by the PCIs under the first SMI Project. The SMI Fund was
established by NDB with separate policies, staffing, financial resources and
accounting. By July 31, 1981, the SMI Fund's refinance approvals totalled
Rs 192.0 million (US$7.2 million) to about 1,500 subprojects. About Rs 102.9
million (US$5.9 million) had been disbursed by NDB. During 1981, NDB expects
expansion in its SMI refinance operations with funding under the proposed
Second SMI Project. Also, NDB may establish a fund for refinance of larger
loans for construction equipment.
4.07      Organization and Staffing.  The SMI Fund, headed by a manager, is
organized into three main sections. The analysis and review section reviews
appraisals and refinance applications of the five PCIs. The reporting and
liaison section prepares periodic reports on the credit institutions' lending,
supervision and collection performance. The finance and disbursement section
disburses refinance, collects repayments, administers SMI project funds for
the technical service components, and maintains accounts. Professional staff
positions of the SMI Fund have consisted of the manager, three section heads,
six analysts and three other officers. The SMI Fund has had difficulty recruit-
ing and retaining senior staff, due both to shortages in experienced staff in
Sri Lanka and the greater appeal of NDB's direct lending operations. Despite
staffing problems and higher than expected refinance activity, performance of
the SMI Fund has been quite satisfactory under the first SMI Project. As
anticipated, the emphasis during the SMI Fund's initial period of operation
was on developing suitable procedures, reviewing refinance applications, and
1/   At July 31, 1982, NDB's staff numbered about 40 professionals.
2/   The total project costs were Rs 735.3 million (US$44.6 million) including
Rs 302.8 million (US$18.4 million) in foreign exchange.



- 21 -
upgrading PCIs' appraisal standards. Now, monitoring and supervision require
increased attention. The SMI Fund intends to formalize its training programs
for PCIs. Also, the Fund would make subproject review more systematic by:
establishing norms for key aspects of appraisal, including appropriate levels
of permanent working capital, land, and buildings; preparing subsector analyses
to avoid over-investment and to identify market opportunities; and investigating
sources of appropriate equipment. Consequently, under the Second SMI Project,
three new sections would be added for monitoring and supervision, training, and
subsector analysis. 1/
4.08      With this reorganization, additional professional staff are needed
for the new sections and to fill vacancies in the existing sections. Nineteen
officers would need to be in place, with qualifications satisfactory to IDA,
prior to effectiveness of SMI II: the manager of the Fund; the head of the
analysis and review section and seven analysts; a section head and two officers
for monitoring and supervision; a section head and two assistants for finance
and disbursements; a senior officer and another officer for subsector analysis
and two officers for reporting and training. NDB now has taken steps to fill
the needed positions: sixteen of the needed nineteen officers have been
appointed or are in place. Prior to credit effectiveness NDB needs to retain
the services of the existing manager of the SMI Fund or find a suitable
replacement with substantial experience in both project appraisal and in
management within a commercial bank on industrial finance institution. Also,
prior to credit effectiveness, NDB would have an appropriate head and senior
officer for the supervision section in place. New staff would be given
training and consultancy assistance (para 4.15).
4.09      Policies and Procedures.  Prior to effectiveness of the first SMI
credit, NDB adopted a statement of policies and operating procedures for
the SMI Fund, in a form satisfactory to IDA. The statement, which provides
the basis for the SMI Fund's operations, now requires minor modifications to
reflect changes in eligibility criteria, terms, and procedures proposed for
the Second SMI Project; a draft statement reflecting these changes was dis-
cussed during negotiations with agreement in substance reached (Annex 3).
The Sri Lanka delegation reported that the revised statement had already been
approved in substance by NDB's Board of Directors. Prior to credit effective-
ness, NDB's Board would need to ratify the statement, including terms and
conditions for refinance and onlending, which were agreed during negotiations;
any subsequent modifications would require IDA approval. Procedures for review-
ing SMI appraisal reports 1/ in support of the PCIs' refinance applications
1/   Subsequently, the six sections would be grouped under two new divisional
managers. One would be responsible for operational aspects: analysis
and review; monitoring and supervision; and subsector analysis. The
other wouLld oversee administrative aspects: finance and disbursement;
reporting; and training.
2/   The two standardized appraisal forms (one for subloans above Rs 500,000
and one for subloans below that amount), agreed with IDA and now in use
are satisfactory. In addition, the Fund, in consultation with the
credit institutions, will prepare a simplified form for subloans of
below Rs 20,000.



- 22 -
have been satisfactory. The SMI Fund would continue to grant refinance on
subloans of below Rs 50,000 (US$2,500) without a detailed review; the review
section would check to see that subprojects meet the eligibility criteria,
appear financially viable, and have appropriate terms; more detailed post-
approval reviews would be conducted of a sample to ensure maintenance of
standards. Subloans of above Rs 50,000 would continue to be subject to a more
detailed review of technical, financial, marketing and economic aspects, with
the SMI Fund completing the review within two weeks.  The Rs 50,000 limit
could be increased by the Fund, after consultation with IDA, for those PCIs
which demonstrate consistently strong appraisal standards. After reviewing
subloans of over Rs 1,000,000 (US$50,000) NDB would submit the appraisals and
refinance requests to IDA for review and approval. The existing reporting
system would be used to aggregate quarterly reports of the credit and tech-
nical service institutions, for submission to IDA; also this section would
submit evaluations of SMI operations and impact. The supervision section
would make periodic visits to head offices, branches and SMIs to review
standards, procedures, staffing and supervision performance. The SMI Fund's
revised policy statement also would specify the responsibilities of each
section (para 4.07).
4.10      Eligibility for Refinance.  PCIs eligible for refinance would have
signed participation agreements with the SMI Fund of NDB. The existing par-
ticipation agreements would be modified and new agreements signed to reflect
changes in the eligibility criteria, terms and conditions, and procedures of
the Second SMI Project. The five credit institutions involved in SMI I would
participate; of these, DFCC's involvement is expected to remain limited due to
alternative financing on more attractive terms, lack of branches, and concen-
tration on lending to larger industrial projects. Interested foreign banks
also could be eligible, provided that they comply with staffing and other
requirements; inclusion of any foreign bank would require agreement by NDB,
GOSL and IDA, after an appraisal of the institution's Sri Lankan operations.
However, participation of foreign banks is considered unlikely, given their
emphasis on trade financing and foreign exchange operations, and their lack
of branches.
4.11      Subprojects eligible for refinance, as under SMI I, would involve
the creation, modernization or expansion of private or cooperative enter-
prises engaged in manufacturing, mining, construction, agro-industry, fish
processing, handicraft production or industrial services. 1/ The maximum
enterprise, subproject and subloan sizes would be doubled to reflect inflation
and enable financing of more substantial SMI subprojects. The SMI Fund would
provide 80% refinance of subloans for enterprises with total fixed assets
(excluding land and buildings) with original costs of up to Rs 2 million in
fixed assets 2/ prior to the subloan; the maximum subproject size would be
1/   Defined as repair workshops and other industrial services which add
value to a product, and export enterprises with direct involvement
in organizing the decerntralized production base. Transport would be
eligible only if it forms part of an industrial enterprise.
2/   Only the portion of land and buildings needed for the SMI subproject
would be part of a subloan eligible for refinance; the subsector
analysis section of the SMI Fund would develop norms on this aspect.



- 23 -
4 million (US$200,000) excluding permanent working capital. 1/ Sponsors would
be required to provide at least 20% of total subproject cost in equity; based
upon experience under SMI I, sponsor's contributions are expected to average
30%. The maximum subloan size would be Rs 2 million (US$100,000) including
fixed assets and permanent working capital. 2/ All subprojects would need
to be financially viable. Regarding economic viability, PCIs would continue
to assess whether a subproject would improve quality, price competitiveness,
or production of goods for which demand has been established. For more common
subprojects, the credit institutions would use standard project profiles for
reference. The SMI Fund would do subsector analysis on product group's eco-
nomic viability. The credit institutions would be expected to incorporate
simple indicators of economic impact within their subproject appraisals, such
as expected fixed costs per job and percentage of raw materials of local origin.
4.12      Refinance Arrangements.  Equity participation is expected to average
30% of subproject costs; refinance would cover about 56%; and the PCIs would
contribute 14%. The PCIs would continue to assume full repayment risk on
refinance, on a fixed schedule determined at the time of approval. To cover
administrative costs of SMI operations and provide PCIs with an incentive
to lend to smaller firms, differential spreads based upon subloan size would
continue to be provided. The refinance rate would be adjusted to provide
the PCIs with a gross spread 3/ of 5% p.a. for subloans of up to Rs 500,000,
and 4% for subloans of Rs 500,000 to Rs 2 million. These spreads, slightly
higher than the 3% to 5% spreads under the first project, are justified in
view of the added emphasis on subproject supervision and the needed impetus
to a further reduction in PCIs' security requirements. NDB would receive a
2% to 3% spread depending upon subloan size (para 5.02).
4.13      Terms and Conditions.  Refinance granted by the SMI Fund would con-
tinue to be denominated in Rupees and onlent by the credit institutions at a
standard interest rate. The initial onlending rate would be 18%, which
represents a significant increase from the 15% onlending rate under the first
project and which is reasonable in view of medium term inflation projections
(para 2.17). The rate would be reviewed every six months, beginning on July 1,
1982, with automatic adjustment by an equal number of percentage points to any
1/   Subprojects would consist of subloan and equity portions (including
permanent working capital) to establish an SMI or for balancing,
modernization and expansion of existing firms; the subproject amount
would not include assets of a firm prior to the subloan. In the case of
a Rs 4 million subproject, the subloan could cover up to Rs 2 million,
with equity covering the balance.
2/   Since eligible subloan sizes for subprojects financed under IFC's second
line of credit to BOC would be US$85,000-US$1 million, the overlap with
SMI II would be minimal.
3/   These spreads are prior to the PCIs paying a premium to the Central Bank
for coverage under the SMI credit guarantee scheme; the guarantee premium
would be 1% on the guaranteed amount outstanding of the subloan (para 4.16).



- 24 -
change in the rate which People's Bank charges on its loans to large industry.
Only if this "prevailing rate" were to fall below 18% would the SMI onlending
rate fall, with parity between the project onlending rate and the prevailing
rate achieved,, and maintained for the commitment period of the project.
These rates also would apply the 20% of each subloan not eligible for NDB
refinance under SMI II. Maturities on eligible SMI subloans would continue
to be for 3 to 10 years, including grace periods ranging from 3 months to 2
years.  The PCIs would establish appropriate grace periods and maturities,
based upon each subproject's debt service ability; the Fund would review
these maturity and grace periods.
4.14      Projected Financial Results.  The resources of the SMI Fund would
comprise: capital and interest from NDB's initial contribution of Rs 20
million, repayments on the US$12 million IDA credit component of SMI I; and
withdrawals from IDA for US$28 million in refinance under the Second SMI
Project. Largely as a result of repayments under SMI 1, the SMI Fund is
expected to have a cumulative surplus of Rs 29.8 million by the end of CY81,
and Rs 41.9 million by the end of CY82. With SMI Fund repayments to GOSL
beginning only in 1984 (Year 5), the SMI Fund is expected to generate sur-
pluses which would be utilized to cover: the lag between refinance by the SMI
Fund and withdrawals from IDA; bridge financing requirements if gaps occur in
outside funding; and refinance to PCIs for SMI subloans, utilizing resources
of the SMI Fund. It is anticipated that the SMI Fund would not require
additional capital infusions from NDB during the disbursement period of SMI
II; however, NDB would commit to making additional funds available, if required,
to cover needs for bridge financing, administrative costs, or the gap between
the SMI Fund's disbursements and withdrawals from IDA. Detailed financial
projections for the SMI Fund are provided in Annex 2, Table 4.
4.15      Institutional and Training Needs.  During negotiations, the Chair-
man of NDB indicated that outside training for eight new SMI Fund officers
had been arranged with the State Bank of India and would be completed by
December 31, 1981. Funding for this initial foreign training is available
under the first SMI credit. The technical service component of SMI II would
include provisions for: overseas training of three to five SMI Fund staff
yearly (para 4.26); and 12 man-months of consultancy for on-the-job training
of SMI Fund staff in project review, supervision of banking operations and
subsector analysis (US$60,000). This consultancy probably would be under-
taken by an institution with extensive experience in these areas. 1/ In addi-
tion, assistance would be provided to the subsector analysis section, probably
by local consultants (US$50,000). The project also would continue support of
NDB's overall operations by providing 18 man-months of assistance by ICICI
in technical appraisal, project promotion and other institution-building
(US$90,000).
1/   This would be similar to NDB's consultancy arrangement with ICICI for
NDB's direct lending operations.



- 25 --
2. Credit Guarantee Scheme
4.16      Under the Second SMI Project, the Central Bank's SMI Credit Guaran-
Lee Scheme would continue to provide partial coverage of eligible dMI suloaI-s;
to encourage the PCIs to reduce collateral requirements; coverage would l,e
restricted to subloans refinianced under the SMI Project.  Guarantee prelviums,
which would come from the PCIs' spreads, would be 1% of the outstandi-nog amou;nt
guaranteed. I/  Modifications in the scheme would be made prior to creCdt
effectiveness to streamline procedures and to reflect the increased size of
.'Lgible subloans.  Coverage would be increased to tlle lower of 60% oi- the
sual)oan amount or Rs 800,000, 2/ to reflect the doubling in eligible subloan
size. The Central Bank would provide guarantees for all SMI subloans as soon
as they are approved for refinance by NDB; the Central Bank would do no
separate subproject review approved for NDB refinance, without performing a
separate subproject review.  The Central Bank would deal directly with the SMI
Fund and not with the PCIs, except in collecting premium payments. During
appraisal and negotiations, the revised terms and procedures and implications
of increased coverage on underwriting of the scheme were discussed (Annex 3).
The Sri Lankan delegation reported that the Central Bank already had agreed
in substance to all changes, except for the procedures involving use oL NDB
as the channel for queries and communications. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the modified scheme, with characteristics acceptable to 19A$
would need to have been installed by the Central Bank.
3.   Participating Credit Institutions 3/
4.17      Past Performance.  Performance of the PCIs under the first SMI Proj-
ect has been satisfactory. The rate of commitments on SMI sublioans has been
one year ahead of the rate anticipated. The PCIs have established a satisfac-
tory organizational framework for processing SMI subloans, and considerable
progress has been made on improving appraisal standards and procedures. Prior
to credit effectiveness of SMI I, about 120 officers and 30 managers of the
PCIs had received SMI training and orientation; subsequently, the SMI Fund of
NDB and the PCIs themselves have provided SMI training to over 80 additional
officers. As of July 1981, PCIs had about 150 trained SMI officers appraising
and supervising SMI subloans from headquarters SMI departments units and key
branches; however, this staff strength has proved inadequate to handle the
higher than anticipated volume of SMI activity, particularly in People's Bank
and Bank of Ceylon. In some cases those allocated to SMI work are given
additional responsibilities, and promotion of SMI officers to other positions
has made continuous training necessary. These staffing constraints, which
reflect labor union problems and rapid branch expansion, have resulted in a
1/   The premium would be adjusted, if needed, to reflect default performance.
2/   From the lower of 60% of the subloan amount or Rs 400,000.
3/   Detailed information on the PCIs is available in the project file.



- 26 -
sizeable backlog of applications 1/ and inadequate attention to subproject
supervision. These problems were discussed with the management of the PCIs;
during negotiations, the Sri Lankan delegation confirmed that SMI staffing in
the PCIs already had been increased and that management of each PCI had agreed
on minimum SMI staffing, which would total at least 165 full time and 60 part
time SMI officers in the five PCIs prior to implementing the Second SMI
Project (Annex 3). The participation agreements would include provisions
for the minimum number of trained SMI staff and arrangements for subsequent
increases. Also discussed were improvements needed in: estimating financing
needs for permanent working capital, land and buildings; reducing collateral
requirements; and setting appropriate maturity or grace periods. In a few
cases, appropriate practices on these aspects have not been observed; these
form part of the learning process in adopting project-based lending policies.
Understandings reached with PCI management on treatment of these issues would
be reflected in policy statements on SMI lending, which would be included in
the participation agreements.
4.18      Conditions of Participation.  As under SMI I, each PCI and NDB
would sign a participation agreement outlining their respective obligations
and incorporating characteristics of the proposed Project (paras 4.10--4.13).
Each agreement would stipulate the institution's responsibilities regarding:
(i) assignment and training of SMI staff; (ii) subproject appraisal standards;
(iii) regular and close supervision of subprojects; (iv) adherence to the
terms and conditions of lending and repayment; (v) procurement and disburse-
ment requirements; (vi) quarterly reporting to management and NDB; and (vii)
policies for SMI lending operations. The policy statement on SMI lending, to
be passed by the Board of each PCI and included in its participation agreement,
would cover these aspects as well as the focus on project viability, with
specific measures to reduce reliance on collateral, and commitment to limit
financing of permanent working capital, land and buildings to the productive
needs of the subproject. Drafts of revised participation agreements, includ-
ing key aspects of the policy statements and minimum staffing requirements, 2/
were developed with NDB and the PCIs during appraisal. During negotiations,
agreement on the substance of these agreements was reached; prior to effective-
ness, at least two PCIs would need to have signed participation agreements.
Management of each PCI already has irdicated agreement; it is expected that
all five PCIs would sign prior to credit effectiveness.
4.19      The State Banks.  Both Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and People's Bank have
extensive branch networks covering urban and rural areas; BOC has 11 regional
offices, 24 district offices and 92 branches, while People's Bank has 16
1/   As of July 31, 1981, the backlog stood at Rs 77.0 million (US$3.9 mil-
lion). People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon each accounted for about 45%.
2/   The agreed minimum staffing levels for each institution, discussed and
agreed with management of the PCIs, and confirmed during negotiations,
are noted in paras 4.21 to 4.25.



- 27 -
regional offices and 244 branches. 1/ Together, BOC and People's Bank account
for about 85% of commercial bank lending in Sri Lanka. 2/ Roughly 80% of both
banks' lending is short term, 3/ although a large portion is rolled over, con-
stituting long term finance. Lending is based mainly on collateral, but the
banks have made some progress in increasing reliance on appraisal in term
credit decisions. The first SMI Project has provided impetus for this change,
as has IFC's involvement with BOC (para 1.06). The proposed project would
continue to assist the banks in improving project-based lending by: helping
ensure adequate SMI staffing and training in the PCIs; building the SMI Fund's
supervision capabilities; and reinforcing the banks' SRI appraisal, procurement
and supervision practices, which influence lending policies in other areas.
4.20      People's Bank.  Industrial advances represent about 35% of People's
Bank total outstandings. SMI lending falls under the control of the deputy
general manager of development, who supervises a separate SMI Unit at head
office, headed by a chief manager and staffed by six officers; 12 SMI officers
have been posted at the regional level and 34 at key branches. Management
intends to add three officers at head office, four at the regional level, 15
full-time and 60 part-time SMI officers at the branches, by September 1981.
People's Bank would have minimum SMI staffing of 10 head office, 15 regional,
50 full time and 50 part time branch officers in place as a condition of par-
ticipation in SMI II. From November 1979 to July 31, 1981, People's Bank had
received approval for NDB refinance totalling Rs 39.9 million for 794 subloans.
People's Bank has accounted for 53% of the approved subloans by number and 41%
by amount, reflecting the relatively small size of People's Bank subloans; the
average size of People's Bank's SMI subloans has been Rs 125,000 (US$7,125).
Major SMI subsectors financed by People's Bank at December 31, 1980, were:
food processing, 21% by amount; construction materials, 15%; textiles, 8%; and
wood products, 6%. Under the proposed project it is anticipated that People's
Bank would process about 1,000 subloans totalling Rs 250 million; the average
expected subloan amount would be about Rs 227,000 (US$11,350).
4.21      Bank of Ceylon.  Industrial credit operations, which account for
about 25% of BOC's outstanding loans and advances, fall under an Industrial
Credit Department (ICD), headed by an assistant general manager. 4/ A head
office SMI Unit was established in the ICD to appraise larger SMI subprojects
and coordinate BOC's SMI operations. The SMI Unit is staffed by a manager
and twelve full-time officers, including eight appraisal and two supervision
1/   In addition, BOC has 450 agricultural service centers and pay offices
and People's Bank has 277 savings branches. These offices are not full
service branches and function largely as deposit and repayment centers.
2/   As of December 31, 1980, taking into account loans and advances including
trade bills, but excluding guarantees and acceptances.
3/   Defined as up to one year; medium term is classified as 1 to 5 years and
long term as 5 to 10 years.
4/   Industrial projects financed under IFC's lines of credit to BOC (para
1.06) are appraised by the ICD.



- 28 -
officers, which would be adequate for SMI II. Subloans of below Rs 500,000
are processed at district offices or key branches; however, BOC has assigned
only 20 full-time SMI officers to district offices and 10 at key branches,
which is inadequate. BOC management agreed during appraisal that at least 20
trained SMI officers would be assigned at district level and 25 at key branches
as a condition of BOC's participation in SMI II. Adequate staffing for rapid
processing of applications and close project supervision are prerequisites
for BOC's effective participation in the proposed project.  At July 31, 1981
refinance totalling Rs 73.2 million was approved for 551 SMI subloans made by
BOC. The average subloan amount has been Rs 166,000 (US$9,500) similar to the
overall average of Rs 161,000 (US$9,200) under SMI I.  Major product groups
were: food processing, 16%; construction materials, 15%; metal products, 12%;
and construction contracting, 8%. Annex 1 provides a profile of subprojects
approved under SMI I. Under the proposed project, it is anticipated that BOC
would process about Rs 230 million in 700 subloans.
4.22      The Private Banks.  The two local private Sri Lankan banks, 1/
Commercial Bank of Ceylon (CBOC) and Hatton National Bank (HNB), have limited
branch networks: CBOC has nine branches, three of which are in Colombo, and
Hatton has six. The two banks account for about 11% of commercial bank credit
in Sri Lanka. 2/ In the past, these private banks concentrated on traditional
commercial lending operations, particularly export financing; during the past
two years, both banks have adopted policies to expand their term lending,
particularly for SMI. Both banks have made considerable progress in using
project appraisal as the basis for credit decisions, and in procurement and
project supervision systems. Both banks are vulnerable to staff turnover,
since sound training in export financing and foreign exchange operations make
staff attractive to foreign banks operating in Sri Lanka.
4.23      Commercial Bank of Ceylon.  Prior to the implementation of the
first SMI Project, CBOC had only limited involvement in term credit to indus-
try. However, under the existing credit, refinance of Rs 21.6 million has
been approved for 86 subloans. The average subloan size for CBOC subloans has
been Rs 314,000 (US$17,940); CBOC's 11% share in total SMI Fund refinance is
as anticipated at appraisal. CBOC's lending has been concentrated in: metal
products, 16%; garments, 11%; food processing, 10%; and textiles, 5%. 3/ A
head office SMI Unit, reporting to an assistant general manager and presently
staffed by two appraisal officers, coordinates SMI lending operations. CBOC
plans to add another officer; this increase would be reflected as a condition
of participation.  CBOC also has officers engaged in SMI work in three of its
branch offices. CBOC is expected to account for about 9% of the proposed
credit in about 140 subloans.
1/   Both banks have overseas banks as minority shareholders:  Grindlays (UK)
holds 27% of HNB and a Standard Chartered (UK) subsidiary holds 40%
of CBOC. Four state-owned enterprises hold a further 33% of CBOC.
2/   As of December 31, 1980, CBOC accounted for 6% and HNB for 5%.
3/   A profile of subloans refinanced under the existing credit is provided
in Annex 1.



- 29 -
4.24      Hatton National Bank.  Industrial loans account for about 27% of
HNB's total advances. As of July 31, 1981, refinance had been approved for
51 SMI subloans totalling Rs 17.1 million. The average subloan amount has
been Rs 419,100 (US$23,900), the largest of the PCIs; by number and by amount
of subloans have been between Rs 100,000 and Rs 500,000. Food processing
represented 26% by amount; garments, 16%; and electrical appliances, 15%. 1/
HNB's SMI activities fall under a deputy general manager who supervises a
head office SMI unit staffed by three officers. In addition, HNB has two
SMI officers assigned to each of four key branches. This staffing would be
adequate for participation in SMI II.  HlNB is expected to account for about
10% of the proposed credit in 120 subloans, with an average subloan size of
about Rs 500,000 (US$25,000).
4.25      Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon.  DFCC is a privately
owned development bank; it has received $24.5 million in four loans and
credits from IBRD/IDA, and $15 million from the Asian Development Bank.
Although DFCC concentrates on term loans to larger companies, it has a sepa-
rate, adequately staffed division for small industry operations; the SMI
division has six officers, more than the minimum required under SMI II.
As of August 31, 1980, DFCC had a portfolio of 145 small industry clients,
with outstandings of Rs 39.6 million. DFCC's participation in the first
SMI Project has been limited, since DFCC has access to other domestic and
foreign exchange resources with more favorable spreads and 100% refinance.
As a result, under-the existing project, NDB's approvals for refinance for
SMI subloans by NDB have been only Rs 800,000 in 7 subprojects. DFCC is
expected to enter into a participation agreement for SMI II, but probably
would continue as a minor participant, accounting for about 3% of the lending
component. Since DFCC's focus on medium and larger industry is to be encour-
aged, given its appraisal skills and limited branch coverage, no special
arrangements for DFCC are proposed under SMI II.
4.26      Training and Institutional Needs.  Prior to effectiveness of SMI I,
over 100 officers of the PCIs received local training in SMI appraisal and
supervision, and 12 headquarters SMI officers had intensive training with the
State Bank of India.  In addition, about 30 middle managers participated in
short orientation seminars on development lending for SMIs. 2/ During imple-
mentation of the first Project, the SMI Fund of NDB has assumed responsibility
for local training of PCI staff in SMI lending operations. The SMI Fund of
NDB and the banks have organized training for about 80 PCI officers during
1980. NDB's programs have been highly successful. Under SMI II, NDB would
continue to conduct these courses, using materials based on actual SMI cases
and project profiles, and employing appraisal and supervision forms developed
1/   A profile of subloans refinanced under the existing credit is provided
in Annex 1.
2/   Initial training for the SMI Fund and the PCIs, and consultancy and
training for the technical service institutions, were financed under
a UNDP Umbrella in preparation for SMI I.



- 30 -
for the project. The PCIs would fund staff participation in these programs.
IDA would finance overseas training of 30 to 35 key staff of NDB and the PCIs
(US$70,000).
4.27      A major institutional benefit of the lending component of SMI II
would be the continued impetus in using project appraisal and regular super-
vision of subprojects in SMI credit operations; this shift in approach and
the building of skills have a direct impact on credit policies in other areas.
In addition to these indirect influences, the Second SMI Project would finance
about 12 man-months of consultancy to improve management information systems
for interested commercial banks (US$60,000). Hatton National Bank already has
presented a satisfactory proposal for six man-months of assistance. These
services would complement a similar study in People's Bank, financed under
SMI I. This consultancy would represent the first stage in an institutional
upgrading program for the banks.
C.   Technical and Marketing Service Component
4.28      Background.  The technical and marketing service component of SMI I
(942-CE) has focussed on principal SMI subsectors: rubber products, light
engineering, building materials, handlooms and garments. IDA has financed
equipment, advisors and training for public and private agencies to assist
these subsectors through provision of service facilities, process and product
development, training, a subcontracting exchange, and general promotion and
extension services. These elements, as expected, have taken longer to imple-
ment than the subloan component since the implementing agencies had to locate
appropriate advisors and local staff, find suitable sites, and construct
facilities. Steps have been launched to ensure that these schemes are fully
operational within CY81. 1/ Processing of the Second SMI Project has been
accelerated to accommodate SMI lending needs; however, it is premature to
consider expansion of most subsector-specific service components launched
under SMI I. The technical and marketing component of the Second Project
would focus on: (a) improving lDB's promotion and extension services,
particularly at the regional level; (b) export promotion and related supply
development in selected light industrial product lines; (c) training and
consultancy for NDB and the participating credit institutions; and (d) provi-
sion for expansion of the subsector schemes, after a formal review by GOSL and
IDA by June 1982. Elements of the technical and marketing service component
and sources of finance are summarized in Annex 2, Table 5.
1.   Industrial Development Board
4.29      Organization and Staffing.  General promotion and extension services
are provided by IDB through a network of 9 regional and 20 district offices.
1/   The project file contains a summary of the status of implementation and
action programs the technical and marketing service components of the
first SMI Project (Annex 3).



- 31 -
A total of 59 IDB officers, including managers, work in these regional offices.
However, IDB has faced serious turnover problems among its experienced staff;
half of the existing officers have no previous industrial experience and 45%
have been with IDB for less than one year. 1/ Several steps need to be taken
to enable IDB to develop and retain experienced, motivated extension officers
in the regions and at headquarters.  The mission strongly supports IDB's plans
to improve salaries, training, incentives, and career paths for IDB officers.
During negotiations, the Sri Lanka delegation confirmed that the Ministry of
Industries and the Board of IDB had taken, or have committed to take, the
following measures within its program to continue improving the organization,
management, and performance of IDB:
(a) Salaries. The Ministry of Industries already has taken steps
to maintain parity between IDB staff's salaries and benefits
with those of other organizations within the Ministry of
Industries. The Board of Directors of IDB will take actions
necessary to help ensure that IDB employees receive salaries
competitive with similar organizations. Prior to disburse-
ments for the elements of SMI II to be implemented by IDB,
the Ministry of Industries would furnish to the Association
a statement confirming that such parity would be maintained
during the implementation period of the proposed project;
(b) SMI Consultancy. The Board of Directors has ratified the
formation of an SMI consultancy fund, as proposed in the
Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for this
fund (para 4.31 and Annex 3); and
(c) Promotion and Career Paths. The Board of Directors of IDB
has committed to develop attractive career paths for its
officers, including flexible promotion policies and relevant
training.
These elements reflect understandings reached between IDB management and IDA
during project appraisal. During negotiations, it was agreed that, prior to
disbursements for the IDB components of the project, the Board of Directors
would need to establish additional policies, satisfactory to the Association,
as part of IDB's program to improve the organization, incentives, and skills
of IDB's extension officers. These would include:
(a) written commitment by IDB's Board to hire 5 qualified exten-
sion coaches to work with IDB extension officers at the
regional level, each for a period of one year, with at least
three appointed prior to disbursements for Part C;
(b) evidence that a promotional policy had been put into effect
which would enable extension officers outside headquarters
to be promoted to senior levels without requiring that they
return to IDB headquarters. The IDA delegation proposed
that such promotions be made possible from Grade VI to
Grade II. This system, or another satisfactory to the
Association, would need to be installed by IDB prior to
IDA disbursements for IDB elements of the project; and



- 32 -
(c) written commitment by the Board of IDB to examine alternative
methods to organize the work of regional extension officers,
serving the districts on a full- or part-time basis. This
review would be conducted after the year of coaching, which
would be carried out at the regional level.
Prior to IDA disbursements for elements of SMI II, IDB would have ratified
a statement of policies and would have launched actions on these aspects
of IDB's organization, salaries, promotions and training, agreeable to IDA.
Prior to the commencement of each calendar year, IDB would submit to IDA,
for concurrence, annual action program covering organizational and staffing
changes for information, and planned implementation of elements under SMI II
for IDA concurrence.
4.30      Regional Extension.  The Second SMI Project would help develop
regional services, with IDA funding for five experienced 514 extension officers
from outside, to work for one year as coaches of IDB's extension officers.
Draft terms of reference for these coaches were developed with IDB during
appraisal of SMI II and agreement in substance on these TORs was reached
during negotiations (Annex 3). During the training period, the coaches would:
perform extension work demonstrating full cycle, systematic consultancy in-
cluding client generation, diagnosis, servicing and monitoring for a minimum
of 30 clients each; conduct workshops for regional extension officers; assist
in setting up sys-tems for reporting and for evaluation of clients; and help
test systems for the SMI consultancy fund of IDB (para 4.31). The five coaches
probably would be assigned to the following regional groups: Colombo-Kalutara
(head coach); Jaffna-Anuradhapura; Matara; Kurunegala-Kandy; and Badulla-Amparai
(Map, Annex 4). Costs for five manyears of practical training and consultancy
are estimated to be US$300,000 equivalent; these expenditures would be eligible
for IDA disbursements.
4.31      Private Technical Consultancy.  IDB's regional offices are manned by
generalists with limited ability to resolve technical problems of SMIs. While
there is a provision for back-up technical consultancy from headquarters, the
response time often is long and, with the staff turnover problem, technical
officers at IDB headquarters often have limited knowhow in addressing process
and equipment problems of SMIs in the regions. Coaching of regional general-
ists would increase their ability to define clients' problems. The Regional
Development Division of IDB has introduced some measures to improve communica-
tion links between regional offices and subsector divisions at headquarters.
However, with a buoyant private industrial sector, IDB's problems in attracting
and retaining technical officers are likely to continue. Under the Second SMI
Project, IDB would establish an SMI consultancy fund, for hiring local private
consultants to help address specified technical problems of IDB clients. The
appraisal mission confirmed that there are adequate numbers of private firms
and individuals with the necessary competence and interest in providing these
services. About US$100,000 in IDA financing would be allocated for the SMI
1/   The project file provides a summary of extension officers education,
training, experience and tenure with IDB (Annex 3).



- 33 -
consultancy fund, which would provide for roughly 200 manmonths of consultancy
assistance, with about 400 firms served. The coaches to IDB would help test
the referral system. The Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for
this SMI Consultancy Fund, covering mechanisms for selecting consultants, the
fee structure, a,nd procedures for payment and monitoring, already has been
ratified by the Board of Directors of IDB (Annex 3).
4.32      Subsector Schemes.  While it is premature to allocate specific
funding for expansion of most technical service components of the first SMI
Project, the subsector consultant to IDB on engineering services has provided
strong justification for Phase II in the heat treatment, metal testing, and
some tool and dye making center. Estimated costs are US$220,000. IDA dis-
bursements for this component would be made only after Phase I is fully ope-
rational, with high utilization of the existing facilities and establishment
of a steering committee, with major private participation, to ensure that
expansion responds to effective demand.
2.   Export Development Board
4.33      EDB is headed by a full-time executive chairman who oversees policy
decisions and manages EDB, with day-to-day operations delegated to the director
general; both have strong, relevant experience. 1/ This management has been
able to attract a strong core of middle management for the six function
director positions: planning, projects, marketing, services, finance, and
administration. Each department has one deputy director, two assistant
directors, and two to three junior executives. Management of EDB intends to
develop the effectiveness of this small staff, rather than building a large
organization. Each professional is expected to have a product specialization
in addition to fulfilling responsibilities within his functional area.
Although this loose matrix organization creates some difficulties, EDB is
small and well-managed, and should be able to function effectively with this
structure during its initial years. EDB is financed through extra charges on
certain imports and selected non-traditional exports, which are expected to
generate about Rs 140 million (US$7.0 million) during CY81. Nearly all would
be channelled into the recently approved Export Expansion Scheme (para 2.11),
with a small portion funding EDB's operating costs. Additional funding total-
ling about US$300,000 annually has been made available, initially through
ITC-SIDA and now through a UNDP grant. The Second SMI Project would provide
funding to address key constraints in exporting selected light industrial
products. Project inputs would help EDB assist exporters and related manufac-
turers in adapting products, expanding capacity, improving quality and increas-
ing value added, in response to concrete market opportunities. While other
products would be eligible, if mutually agreed by EDB and IDA, the following
would receive priority attention: rubber, wood, handloom and marine products;
gems and jewelry; white coir yarn and matting; leather and leather products;
and light engineering goods. Ancillary firms providing components or back-up
1/   The Chairman returned to Sri Lanka from the post of Director General of
the International Trade Commission in Geneva, while the Director General
of EDB had been in charge of the former Export Promotion Secretariat,
the predecessor of the more powerful EDB.



- 34 -
facilities to export-oriented enterprises would also receive attention, as
would key agribusinesses including fruits and vegetables, cut flowers and
plants, spices and essences.
4.34      About US$800,000 of IDA funding would be allocated for this compo-
nent over the three year commitment period for: practical consultancy; pilot
projects; training and common service facilities; sales and exposure trips;
and advisory services to assist in improving export policies and procedures
(paras 3.02-3.12). The Board of Directors of the Export Development Board
has ratified a Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for this pro-
gram (Annex 3).  Prior to disbursements for the EDB component, EDB would
prepare a year 1 action program, acceptable to IDA, based upon the three
year implementation plan already developed by EDB. Prior to the second and
third calendar year of the project, EDB would send to IDA a draft annual
action program, for concurrence, which would form the basis for IDA-financed
activities during the subsequent year. The EDB would submit to IDA, for
review and authorization: qualifications, terms of reference and contractual
arrangements with consultants; and project reports for common facilities,
performance contracts and pilot projects. In most cases, the EDB would
utilize private individuals, companies or associations to implement training
and technical service programs and pilot projects.
3.   Coordination and Monitoring
4.35      The SMI Coordinating Committee chaired by the Additional Secretary,
Ministry of Industries and consisting of management of the implementing agen-
cies and a private sector representative, has met about once a month during
the implementation period of the First SMI Project. The Coordinating Commit-
tee has played a useful role in reviewing progress and encouraging accelerated
action. Prior to implementation of SMI II, a representative of the EDB would
join the SMI Coordinating Committee. The Committee would continue to review
quarterly reports prepared by the implementing agencies, examine operational
or coordination problems, and make recommendations on improving efficiency
in project implementation. Only in the use of the expansion fund would the
coordinating committee need to approve actions or eligible expenditures by
an implementing agency under the Project; under this expansion fund, the equiv-
alent of about US$350,000 would be available for expansion of successful sub-
sector schemes of SMI I and II after a joint review by June 1982 (para 4.32).
Implementing agencies would make expenditures, channelling authorization
requests and reimbursement claims through NDB's SMI Fund to IDA; in exceptional
circumstances NDB could provide bridge financing for expenditures under the
Technical Service components. The SMI Fund of NDB also would be responsible
for coordinating the submission of quarterly reports. Under SMI II, various
mechanisms would be adopted to encourage coordination among the PCIs, IDB,
and EDB; most coordination is expected to take place on an agency-to-agency
basis, supported by regular meetings of the coordinating committee.
4.36      As under SMI I, the implementing agencies would be expected to carry
out their specific activities and responsibilities autonomously, within the
framework and objectives, guidelines and procedures agreed between GOSL and
IDA under the Credit and Subsidiary Loan Agreements. This clear allocation of
responsibilities is particularly important in the case of credit operations.



- 35 -
As a result of the first SMI Project, an IDB-Commercial Bank Joint Scheme
was replaced by the credit institutions assuming full responsibility for SMI
lending operations. However, IDB has fewer than 10 officers with project
appraisal capabilities. Inefficiencies resulted with the previous Joint
Scheme: in 1978, the banks approved only 200 of the 1,000 loans recommended
by IDB officers since the banks, which took repayment risks, were not willing
to rely on appraisals by IDB. Also responsibilities for subproject supervision
and collection were unclear. The credit institutions now have over 120 trained
SMI appraisal and supervision officers working full time on SMI lending opera-
tions at headquarters, regional and branch levels, with a substantially larger
number having been trained in SMI lending operations. By December 1981, the
number of full time S'iI officers is expected to exceed 200. Under the first
SMI Project, the banks have rapidly expanded SMIs' access to credit, with over
1,500 SMI subloans approved during the first 18 months of operation (Annex 1).
The banks' own supervision and a random survey conducted by NDB indicate that
utilization of funds and operations of most SMI subprojects are quite satis-
factory. It is important that this momentum not be lost and that the banks'
responsibilities not be diluted. During negotiations, this aspect was dis-
cussed. Legal documents for SMI II include a covenant confirming that the
participating credit institutions would retain full responsibility for all
SMI lending operations in Sri Lanka.
D. Industrial Policies and Incentives
4.37      The Second SMI Project would help improve the tariff structure and
export incentives which affect private industrial development. The first
Project financed consultancy for a study of effective protection rates (EPR)
for use in making necessary revisions in the tariff structure and developing
export incentives based upon value added (paras 4.10 and 4.12). The first
phase of the study produced the effective protection rates, and the study
team is preparing recommendations on a revised tariff structure for phased
implementation. These rates also can be used in designing EDB's export grant
scheme, which is to be based on value added. During negotiations of SMI II,
the status of the EPR study was discussed and agreement was reached that, by
June 30, 1981:
(a) the Government would review the findings of the tariff study
with a view to developing a phased action program based upon
this review 1/; and
(b)  the EDB would submit to IDA, for its comments, a study assessing
whether EPRs should be used in calculating value added in the
Export Expansion Scheme. The Sri Lankan delegation confirmed
that the results of the Government's review and any subsequent
action programs for tariff reform would be supplied to IDA,
for comment.
1/   The minutes of negotiation contain the confirmation by the Sri Lankan
delegation that any action programs for tariff reform would be submitted
to IDA, for comment.



- 36 -
V. THE CREDIT
5.01      Lending Arrangements.  The proposed credit of SDR 26.7 million
(about US$30 million), including a lending component of US$28 million equiv-
alent and of US$2 million equivalent, would be made to the Government of Sri
Lanka on standard IDA terms and conditions. The credit is expected to be
committed in about 3 years and disbursed in about 4. Annex 2, Table 6 con-
tains the estimated schedule of disbursements. GOSL would onlend the proceeds
of the lending component to NDB for the account of the SMI Fund to cover
refinance of eligible SMI subloans made by the PCIs on terms and conditions
outlined in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, a draft of which was agreed in sub-
stance during negotiations. GOSL would lend to NDB in Rupees, with GOSL
bearing the foreign exchange risks on repayments to IDA. The SMI Fund of NDB
would pay interest to GOSL on the Rupee amounts of the credit component dis-
bursed and outstanding; repayment to GOSL for the lending component would be
on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule. The SMI Fund also would be
responsible for administering disbursements for the technical service compo-
nent, the bulk of which would be preallocated (para 4.03). The proceeds of
the technical service component would not be repayable to GOSL, since these
are development expenditures geared to increasing productivity, output and
exports.
5.02      Lending Terms.  The credit institutions would charge each SMI sub-
borrower a standard interest rate on subloans refinanced by the SMI Fund.
Rates would be 18% p.a. at the outset, but would be reviewed each six months
and adjusted automatically by the same number of percentage points as the
People's Bank rate for large industrial borrowers. However, a flow of 18%
would be maintained on the project onlending rate, unless the rate to large
industries were to fall below 18%, in which case parity would be achieved and
maintained. Modifications in interest rates only would affect new commitments.
The participating credit institutions would repay the SMI Fund of NDB at rates
which would provide a 4% spread for refinanced portions of subloans of over
Rs 500,000 and 5% on subloans of up to Rs 500,000. The SMI Fund would receive
a spread of 2% to 3%. p.a. on refinanced amounts to cover administrative costs
and yield an appropriate return on its capital. The rates and spreads in the
following table are based on a final onlending rate of 18% p.a. which may
change frequently during the commitment period; spreads to the PCIs and NDB
would remain at least 4% to 5% and 2% to 3% respectively.
Proposed Lending Rates and Spreads
(annual %)
Size of Credit Institution's Subloan
Less than        Rs 500,000
Rs 500,000     Rs 2 million
Initial onlending rate to SMI                 18               18
Minimum spread to PCI                           5                4
Minimum spread to SMI Fund, NDB                 2                3
Payment to GOSL                                11              11



- 37 -
5.03      Capital Contribution to SMI Fund.  Prior to effectiveness of SMI I,
the SMI Fund received a capital contribution of Rs 20 million from NDB to cover
the lag between the SMI Fund's refinance disbursements and its withdrawals
from IDA. By October 1981, the estimated time of credit effectiveness of SMI
II, the SMI Fund is expected to contain Rs 30 million; by the end of CY82,
surpluses could total about Rs 45 million except that the SMI Fund would be
encouraged to use these resources for refinance of SMI subloans, as funds
become available. No additional capital contributions should be needed by
the SMI Fund to cover the revolving fund requirements during the disbursement
period by SMI II, but NDB would agree to make additional resources available
to the SMI Fund, if required.
5.04      Subloan Sizes and IDA Review.  The maximum size of subloans under
SMI II would be Rs 2 million (US$100,000), with the SMI refinancing 80% of
subloan amounts. About 2,300 subprojects with subloan sizes averaging about
Rs 300,000 (US$15,000) would be financed under SMI II. In view of the large
number and relatively small sizes of subloans, simplified review and approval
procedures would be used to keep administrative costs and processing times
within reasonable bounds. The SMI Fund would review in detail subproject
appraisals for subloans of over Rs 50,000 (US$2,500); these reviews would be
completed within two weeks of the SMI Fund's receipt of the refinance appli-
cation. A more rapid review and approval procedure would be used for smaller
subloans; the SMTL Fund staff would check on the eligibility of the subproject,
its stated financial viability, and the adequacy of proposed subloan terms;
the SMI Fund would perform sample analyses to ensure that appropriate appraisal
standards are being maintained on these smaller subprojects. Authorization
to make withdrawals for subloans of up to Rs 1,000,000 (US$50,000) would be
granted by IDA following receipt of periodic statements briefly describing
the subprojects approved for refinancing by the SMI Fund. Prior review and
approval of subprojects by IDA would be required for subloans of over
Rs 1,000,000; authorization requests would be accompanied by the credit insti-
tution's appraisal and the SMI Fund's review memorandum. It is expected that
subloans of over Rs 1,000,000 would constitute about 8% of total subloans by
number and 30% by amount; subloans of over Rs 50,000, which NDB would review
in detail, are expected to constitute about 75% by number and 90% by amount.
5.05      Procurement.  The PCIs would be responsible for ensuring that goods
procured for SMI subprojects are purchased at reasonable and competitive
prices, due account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery, quality and reliability of the goods and availability of spare
parts. Imported items costing over US$10,000 would be procured through inter-
national shopping on the basis of at least three price quotations. Credit
institutions would be required to maintain records of the procurement methods
and documents, and to monitor the utilization of subloan funds through regular
supervision visits. For subloans of over US$50,000 equivalent, or 30% of
subloans by amount, the SMI Fund would do a detailed review of the PCIs' pro-
curement procedures. Based upon experience under SMI I, these procurement
procedures are considered satisfactory; SMI Fund staff and IDA field supervi-
sion missions would continue to review implementation of these procedures.
Procurement of goods under the technical services component would be in accord-
ance with GOSL procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. 1/
1/   For purchase of land and equipment and construction of facilities, GOSL
normally uses local tendering procedures.



- 38 -
5.06      Disbursement Procedures.  Subloan disbursements for foreign and
local expenditures would be eligible for refinancing by the SMI Fund for up
to 80% of the subloan amount; IDA would reimburse 1007 of the SMI Fund's
refinanced amounts for eligible SMI subloans. Since sponsors are expected
to contribute an average of 30% of subproject costs, IDA financing would
cover about 56% of total subproject costs (para 4.12). The average foreign
exchange content is estimated to be 34% of subproject costs and 60% of re-
financed amounts. With the large number and small sizes of subloans involved,
normal DFC procedures of disbursing against documented expenditures on indi-
vidual subproject accounts would be inappropriate for most subprojects. For
subloans with refinanced amounts of up to US$40,000 equivalent, IDA would
disburse on the basis of the SMI Fund's certified periodic statements of
expenditures incurred up to 90 days prior to the refinance application, except
during the bridge financing period (para 5.09). This documentation would be
retained by the SM1 Fund for inspection during IDA supervision missions. All
statements of expenditure, together with supporting documentation, would be
audited at least annually. For subprojects with refinanced amounts in excess
of US$40,000, full documentation of expenditures on fixed assets (excluding
permanent working capital) would need to be submitted to IDA prior to IDA
disbursements.  For the technical and marketing services component, IDA would
disburse (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment imported directly and
for locally manufactured equipment purchased directly from a factory; (b) 80%
of expenditures for other equipment procured locally; and (c) 100% of expendi-
tures for consultants and overseas training. Authorization by IDA for goods
and services under the technical service component would be required. Requests
for IDA disbursements would be fully documented. Withdrawal applications
would be channelled through the SMI Fund. Prior approval of the SMI Coordinat-
ing Committee would be required for use of finance for approved expansions
(para 4.35).
5.07      Repayment to GOSL.  The maximum maturity for subloans refinanced
by the SMI Fund would be ten years, including a maximum of two years of grace.
As the commitment period for subloans would be about three years, repayments by
the credit institutions could stretch over 13 years. The SMI Fund would repay
GOSL on a fixed amortization schedule, with a 14 year term including 4 years
of grace. Since the average maturities of subloans probably would be about
seven years, the SMI Fund would accumulate funds, which would total about
US$10 million by 1984, the estimated date of full commitments of the subloan
component; the SMI Fund would be encouraged to use PCI repayments, as they
become available, to augment SMI refinancing operations, and to cover refinance
needs if there are delays in obtaining additional resources after full commit-
ments under SMI II.
5.08      Reporting, Accounts and Auditing.  NDB would submit quarterly reports
to IDA on SMI lending activities as well as progress under the technical ser-
vice components. The main report would be an aggregation of the participat-
ing institutions' quarterly reports. The PCI reports would cover SMI lending
activities, staffing and training, portfolio data, collection and arrears
performance and supervision results. The agencies implementing technical
service components would summarize: implementation progress on aspects out-
lined in the annual action programs; steps to be taken during the next quarter;
and estimates of impact of activities on employment, productivity and exports.



- 39 -
In addition, the SMI Fund would submit a quarterly report on: SMI refinance
and related activities; staffing of the SMI Fund; and evaluation of character-
istics of SMI subborrowers and impact of subprojects. Reports would have
content and format satisfactory to IDA and would be accompanied by an overall
review of the SMI sector in Sri Lanka.  Quarterly reports would be submitted
within 45 days of quarter end. A separate detailed statement of accounts for
the Fund also would be submitted. An annual statement of accounts for NDB,
including the SMI Fund, would be audited by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka
or a designated private firm, which would submit a report in a form satisfac-
tory to IDA not later than three months after the close of each fiscal year;
project accounts of each implementing agency also would be audited. If the
Auditor General designates a private auditing firm, the firm would need to
be satisfactory to IDA and would be selected for at least the duration of the
project to ensure continuity.
5.09      Bridge Financing.  Full commitment by NDB of the US$12 million
subloan component of Credit 942-CE is expected by October 1981. Once these
funds are fully committed, NDB would rovide temporary bridge funding to cover
SMI refinancing requirements before credit effectiveness, i.e., October 1981
to January 1982. Specific arrangements for IDA retroactive financing are not
necessary as eligible disbursements made by the implementing agencies after
signing are automatically eligible for IDA disbursements once the credit is
made effective.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.01      Benefits.  The proposed project would address key constraints to
more rapid development of SMIs. Term loans would be provided to about 2,300
new and existing enterprises, meeting a portion of the financing gap for this
sector and further strengthening SMI term lending operations of the partici-
pating credit institutions. The subprojects financed are expected to result
in about 22,000 to 25,000 new jobs, with incremental fixed investments (includ-
ing buildings and equipment but excluding land) per job of about US51,500. 1/
The average subloan size is expected to be about Rs 300,000 (US$15,000), about
double the average of approved subloans under SMI I. About 60% of the credit
is expected to be channelled to subloans of below Rs 500,000; about 20% for
subloans of Rs 500,000 to Rs 1 million; and 20% for subloans from Rs 1 million
to Rs 2 million. Major SMI subsectors are expected to be: agroindustries;
metal products; building materials and construction contractors. Promotional
and technical services provided under SMI I and II also should result in
increased financing of: export-oriented SMIs in rubber products, handloom
textiles, gem cutting and polishing; and engineering subcontractors linked to
larger public and private industries.
1/   This fixed cost per job figure is somewhat higher than the US$1,000
for subprojects approved under the first SMI project, since the larger
average subproject size is expected to result in somewhat higher fixed
investments per job.



- 40 -
6.02      Benefits from the technical, marketing and management service
components are more difficult to quantify. Improvements in IDB's regional
extension programs, with intensive coaching financed under the proposed
project, are expected to result in improved technical services for roughly
1,500 SMIs over the three year commitment period; impact of these services on
productivity, sales, and employment would be monitored. The coaching combined
with improved career paths for IDB extension officers would help IDB retain
and build more competent general extension officers to diagnose and respond
to non-credit problems of SMIs. With the SMI consultancy fund, local private
sector knowhow would be tapped in addressing technical problems of 400 to 500
SMIs, in areas which require specialized skills. Also, the SMI consultancy
fund would encourage establishment of private sector firms specializing in
consultancy to SMI; increase appreciation by small entrepreneurs of the bene-
fit of commercial consultancy; and enable IDB to tap skilled individuals who
could not be attracted to permanent employment with IDB. The IDB components
also are expected to enhance the effectiveness of subsector services, launched
under SMI I, in rubber products, light engineering, and building materials.
6.03      The export and product development programs of the EDB, financed
under SMI II, would be expected to result in increased, diversified exports
and value added among key light industrial products. Major areas for focus
would be rubber products, white coir items, selected agribusinesses, gems and
jewelry, handloom textiles, frozen seafood, and light engineering products.
Elements to adapt products, upgrade skills, increase quality control, improve
commercial organization of the decentralized production base, and promote
exports should result in sizeable in short and medium term increases in
exports, employment and earnings.
6.04      Risks.  The success of the lending component would depend on the
effective operation of the SMI Fund. Satisfactory policies, procedures and
standards have been tried and established; the key will be NDB's ability to
attract qualified staff and provide training to enable expanded refinance
operations, while increasing attention to monitoring and supervision of SMI
operations of the PCIs. There is a risk that suitably qualified staff may
not be found, particularly for senior positions. NDB already has filled
the majority of needed positions in the SMI Fund and the problem would be
addressed by: requiring a minimum number of trained SMI staff as a condition
of credit effectiveness and providing for on-the-job training and consultancy.
A further risk is that individual credit institutions, particularly the state
banks, may be unable to fulfill their staffing commitments and, therefore,
would be incapable of: clearing the substantial backlog; achieve strong
appraisal standards in processing the large volume of applications expected;
and devoting sufficient attention to subproject supervision. Under the
proposed Project, minimum trained staff would be a condition of participation
in the project; also, each institution's board would need to reaffirm its
commitment to allocate additional SMI staff as required. With strong senior
management commitment, adequate staffing can be provided through active
deployment and training. Another risk associated with the very high demand
for credit is that PCIs may continue to impose high collateral requirements,
thereby excluding some borrowers with viable SMI projects.   This problem
would be addressed by requiring a clear statement on collateral policy by
each credit institution, with close monitoring by the SMI Fund.



- 41 -
6.05      A risk associated with the IDB components are that the intensive
field-level coaching would not be effective due to inadequate qualifications
and motivation of extension staff. However, substantial modifications in
IDB's salary structures, promotional policies and field organization would
be required before this coaching is launched, which should help IDB attract,
retain, motivate and manage qualified extension officers. The major risk in
the SMI consultancy fund is that IDB technical officers would be demoralized
by higher rates paid private consultants, and that this private consultancy
option would accelerate the exodus of technical officers. However, IDB and
similar organizations already hire specialized consultants on a fixed contract
basis, with no apparent morale problems created. Also, ample opportunities
already exist in the private sector, and the SMI consultancy fund would enable
senior officers, who would leave IDB in any event, to remain in the small
industry field.
6.06      The Second SMI Project would build on organizational arrangements
and capabilities developed under SMI I. However, the credit, technical and
marketing components would require continued improvements in the services
of the participating institutions, and frequent IDA supervision visits would
continue to be important under SMI II.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement between IDA and the Government of
Sri Lanka was reached on:
(i) components, costs and institutional responsibilities, including
confirmation of clear responsibility by credit institutions for
SMI lending operations (paras 4.02 and 4.36);
(ii)  GOSL's budgetary allocations for the project, and NDB's commitment
to provide additional finance for operating costs of the SMI Fund,
if needed (para 4.03);
(iii) onlending terms and conditions, margins, subproject eligibility
criteria, and refinance arrangements (paras 4.11-4.13);
(iv)  administrative arrangements and financing of consultants, includ-
ing substance of terms of reference and timing for engagement of
consultants (paras 4.15, 4.27, 4.30-4.32, and 4.34);
(v) timing and substance of annual action programs and the interim
review for the technical service components (paras 4.28, 4.29
4.34, and 4.35);
(vi)  GOSL's consideration of revisions in the tariff structure
and export incentive system; and agreement on dates by which
GOSL would review the findings of the tariff study and analyze
use of EPRa in calculating export incentives (para 4.37);



- 42 -
(vii) procedures for procurement, disbursement, review, reporting,
accounting and auditing (paras 5.04-5.08); and
(viii) bridge financing requirements (para 5.09).
7.02      It is recommended that the following conditions be met prior to
credit effectiveness:
(i) NDB Board approval of the revised statement of policies and
procedures for the SMI Fund, and reorganization, recruitment
and training of agreed minimum incremental staff for the SMI
Fund, with each agreeable to IDA (paras 4.08-4.09);
(ii) incorporation by the Central Bank of modications in the
SMI Credit Guarantee Scheme, satisfactory to IDA (para 4.16);
(iii) signing of participation agreements, satisfactory to IDA,
between NDB and at least two credit institutions, including
policy statements and minimum SMI staffing requirements
(paras 4.17-4.18); and
(iv) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to IDA,
between GOSL and NDB (para 5.01).
7.03      Conditions of disbursement would be made on the following technical
service components:
(i) for elements to be implemented by IDB, ratification by
IDB's Board of a statement on key personnel and decentral-
ization policies and launching of actions on organization,
remuneration and training, satisfactory to IDA; and hiring
of at least 3 extension coaches (paras 4.29-4.31);
(ii) for expansion of the light engineering services center of
IDB, completion of the SMI I component and establishment
of a steering committee with private participation (para
4.32); and
(iii) for EDB's program to promote exports and supply development
in selected light industrial products, preparation of a year
one action program, satisfactory to IDA (para 4.34).
7.04      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of SDR 26.7 million (US$30 million equivalent) with standard terms, on
conditions outlined in Chapter V.



- 43 -                        ANNEX I
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SMALL ANT) MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
CREDIT UTILIZATION AND PROFILE OF
SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER CREDIT 942-CE
Credit Utilization
1.        From credit effectiveness on October 24, 1979 to December 31, 1980,
the SMI Fund approved 1,001 applications for refinance amounting to Rs 118.5
million (US$6.8 million). Disbursements by NDB totalled Rs 43.4 million
(US$2.5 million), of which US$1.4 million had been reimbursed by IDA. 1/
Disbursements by PCIs totalled Rs 77.4 million (US$4.3 million). With monthly
commitments now averaging US$800,000. full commitment of the US$12 million
credit component is expected by June 1981. The following profiles outline
characteristics of subprojects and subloans approved for refinance as of
December 31, 1981.
Subproject Profiles
2.        Characteristics.  The average subloan size has been Rs 155,000
(US$6,800), somewhat below the average of Rs 200,000 expected at appraisal.
About 69% of the subloans were for less than Rs 100,000, compared to 50% fore-
cast at appraisal; 25% fell between Rs 100,000 and Rs 500,000 vs. 35% forecast;
and 6% were above Rs 500,000, compared to 15% projected. The 1,001 subprojects
have been divided equally between establishment of new enterprises (49%) and
expansion of existing firms (51%). Average subproject costs I/ were broken down
into: land, 6%; buildings, 20%; plant and machinery, 36%; vehicles and other
assets, 13%; and working capital, 25%. 2/ Direct foreign exchange represented
about 18% of total subproject costs, 34% of the subloan amount, and 43% of
the refinanced amount. 2/ Total equity contributions have been higher than
originally anticipated; debt:equity ratios averaged 54:46, 3/ compared to the
expected 70:30, which implies an overall financing pattern of: sponsors, 46%;
IDA refinance, 43%; and credit institutions, 11%. The average subloan maturity
is about four years, less than the anticipated five to seven years.
1/   Projected disbursements by IDA were US$4.3 million by December 31, 1980.
The difference is due largely to the rapid acceleration in commitments
in FY81. By April 30, 1981 actual IDA disbursements were US$3.8 million
vs. US$5.9 million estimated at the time of appraisal. Since full com-
mitments are expected in June, about one year ahead of schedule, full
disbursements also are expected to be ahead of appraisal estimates.
2/   Based on a random sample of 109 subloans approved for refinance in
December, 1980.
3/   Based on a random sample of 324 subloans approved for refinance betwean
October and December, 1980.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Economic Impact.  The appraisal reports for approved SMI subloans
indicate that average incremental employment will be seven in the case of
subloans of under Rs 100,000; 17 for subloans of Rs 100,000 to Rs 500,000;
and 22 for subloans above Rs 500,000; total direct employment generated from
the 1,001 subprojects approved by December 31, 1980, is expected to be about
9,000.  Average incremental fixed costs 1/ per job created have been Rs 8,250
(US$500), Rs 23,100 (US$1,300) and Rs 48,800 (US$2,800) for the three cate-
gories, with a weighted average of about Rs 18,200 (US$1,000). If this
pattern were to continue, the subloan component of the project would generate
about 15,000 jobs. The sample suggests that 85% of the projects depend
entirely on local raw material and 86% would produce entirely for the local
market.
4.        Subsector Distribution.  As the following table indicates, major
product groups financed under SMI I have been food processing, building
materials, and metal products.
Number                Amount
Subsector                  Projects      %      Rs Million       %
Food Processing               223       22.3        25.3        21.4
Construction Materials        203       20.3        28.1        23.7
Metal Products                118       11.8        11.1          9.4
Other Agroindustries            96       9.6         8.4          7.1
Garments, Textiles              89       8.9         9.1          7.7
Wood Products                   87       8.7         8.5          7.2
Rubber Products                19        1.9         4.8          4.1
Repair Workshops                31       3.1         1.8          1.4
Other                         135       13.4        21.3        18.0
TOTAL                       1,001      100.0       118.5       100.0
Within food processing, paddy milling has dominated, representing 175 of the
223 subprojects approved in this subsector. Major building material lines
have been bricks, with 107 subprojects; metal crushing with 54; and tiles,
with 33. 2/
5.        Geographical Distribution of SMI subloans under the first project
has been more widely dispersed than anticipated during appraisal. Colombo
and neighboring Gampaha District represented only about 38% of subprojects
approved. This compares favorably with the distribution of existing regis-
tered SMIs for which these districts have a 70% share, and indicates that the
participating credit institutions have been effective in building branch-level
project appraisal capabilities.
1/   Fixed costs are defined here as including buildings, plant and equipment,
and other fixed assets but excluding land and permanent working capital.
2/   A detailed breakdown of approvals by product group is available in the
project file.



45 -                        ANNEX I
Number                 Amount
District                  ProeCtes       %      Rs Million       x
Coloabo                     253         25.3        52.9        44.6
Gampaha                     124         12.4        13.1        11.1
Puttalam                    108         10.8         8.9         7.5
Kurunegala                  104         10.4         6.1          5.1
Kandy                        93          9.8         8.9          7.5
Matara                       46          4.6         5.1         4.3
Badulla                      40          4.0         1.4         1.2
Kalutara                     29          2.9         0.7         0.1
Others                      19          19.8        21.8        18.6
TOTAL                     1,001        100.0      118.5        100.0
6.        Credit Institutions" Participation.  The pattern of SMI lending
by PCI is roughly as forecast during appraisal with the exception Lhat BOC
represents 46% vs. the 35% forecast while DFCC accounted for only 1.5% vs.
the 10% anticipated:
Refinance           Actual
Number of          Amount           Average Size
Projects   %    Rs Million    %    in Rs OOOs
People's Bank                    551    55.0    39,92       33.7       72.5
Bank of Ceylon                   358    35.8    54.13       45.7      151.2
Hlatton National Bank              29     2.9    12.96      10.9      446.9
Commercial Bank of Ceyloni        52      5.2     9.68       8.2      186.1
DFCC                            _  I      1.1     1.79       1,5      162.7
TOTAL                          1,001   100.0   118.50    100.0        118.4
7.        Performance.  A recenit random sample by NDB indicates that all
but a few subprojects for which disbursements have begun have utilized loan
funds properly and are operating without major difficulties. Of the 52 firms
surveyed, funds appeared to have been diverted in two cases and severe market-
ing problems were reported in 3 cases. Four firms were in arrears. In over
40 of the 52 subprojects sampled, operations were found to be satisfactory.
It is too early to judge repayment performance.



SRI LANKA
INDICATORS OF PERFORMANCE IN LARGE INDUSTRIES AND SMIs
Share in 7. of totall/                                            Ratio in Rupees
Value Added per
Nmuber         Value       Fixed                           Fixed Investment    Value Added            Rupee of Fixed
of firms       Added    Investment    Employment            per Emoloyee         per Employee           Investment
Textiles and Garments                    36           27          35              32-                 7,400                12,200                1.64
Large                                     2            8          26               10                17,300               10,900                 0.63
SMIs                                    34            19           9              22                  2,800               12,700                 4.56
Light Engineering                        25           15          19              26                  5,200                8,400                 1.63
Large                                     3            6           6                7                 6,700               13,400                 2.00
(Electrical appliances,)              (0.5)           (4)         (2)             (2)                (7,300)             (30,400)               (4.18)
(Mechanical machinery)                (0.2)          (1)          (1)             (1)                (3,200)              (8,300)               (2.60)
(Metal products)                      (1.6)           (1)         (2)             (2)                (9,200)              (5,600)               (0.62)
(Transport equipment)                 (0.4)           (-)         (1)             (1)                (6,00U)              (8,000)               (1.33)
(Scientific equipment)                (0.2)          (-)          (-)             (-)               (18,500)              (6,200)               (0.33)
SMIs                                    22             9          13              19                 (4,600)               6,700                 1.45
(Electrical apyliances)                 (4)           (3)         (3)             (4)                (4,500)             (10,500)               (2.33)
(Mechanical machinery)                  (3)           (2)         (5)             (7)                (4,300)              (4,600)               (1.07)
(Metal products)                       (10)           (2)         (3)             (4)                (4,600)              (7,100)               (1.53)
(Transport equipment)                   (3)           (1)         (2)             (3)                (4,800)              (5,100)               (1.07)
(Scientific equipment)                  (2)          (1)          (-)             (.)                (7,000)              (3,400)               (1.66)
Paper Products and Printing               3            9           4               3                  8.800               40,900                 4.65
Large                                     -            2           1               -                 11,100               61,900                 5.60                1
SMIs                                      3            7           3               3                  8,300                8,300                 4.38                r>
Wood Products                             6            3           2                6                 2,700                 8,200                3.00
Large                                     -            -           -               -                    -                     -                   -
SMIs                                      6            3           2               6                  2,700                8,200                 3.00
Rubber Products and Chemicals            11           15          20               15                 9,300               14,600                 1.57
Large                                     2            7          12                5                15,500               18,700                 1.21
SMIS                                     9             8           8              10                  6,000               12,300                 2.08
Food Manufacturing                        8           24          15              11                  9,100               30,800                 3.39
Large                                     1           22          11               6                 11,700               48,100                 4.10
SMIs                                      7            2           4               5                  5,300                5,300                 1.09
Basic Metal Products                      1           21           1               1                  3,700               44,500                12.00
Large                                    0.3           1           -               -                  4,700               51,800                11.00
SMIs                                     0.7           1           1               -                  3,700               41,900                12.50
Non-metallic Mineral Products             6            2           2                5                 3,200                4,700                 1.47
Large                                    0.4           1           1               0.3                4,500                5,200                 1.14
SMIs                                     5.6           1           1               0.7                2,500                4,400                 1.75       A 
Otlher Subsecturs                         5            1           2               2                  8,200                9,300                 1.14       cr 
Large                                    -             -           -               -                 13,200                6,600                 1.00       O  >4
SMIs                                     5             1           2               2                  7,700                9,600                5,00        F' ha
Total                                  100           100         100             100                  6,800               14,000                 2.06
Large                                    8           47           57              30                 12,700               21,400                 1.69
SMIs                                    92            53          43              70                  4,200               10,800                 2.56
1/ Figures do not add to 100 due to rounding
Source:  Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs, 1977 Annual Survey of Approved Industries;
only 2428 firms were covered, about 40L. of the total registered firms in 1977.



- 47 -                                       ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA                                        Table 2
PROJECTED DEMAND FOR CREDIT BY SMIs (1981-84)
(Rs million)
Construction and
1 Manufacturing GDP    Quarrying GDP at           Total of Manufacturing and
GDP at Factor  Cost - at Factor  Cost /2   Factor  Coat    /3    Construction GDP at Factor  Cowt
1980                62,246                    11,048                5,552                          16,600
1984               139,214                                         33,847                          39,561
Incremental value
1981 - 1984               76,968                   14,616                 8,345                         22,961
Share of SMIs in Manufacturing            Registered    Unregistered    Construction    Total Manufactured and Constructed
and construction  14                SMIs            SYIs             SMIs                           SMIs
1.           1980                             2,762          3,646             2,221                       8,629
2.           1984                             6,416          8,470            5,554                       20.445
3.  (2-1) Incremental value
1981-1984                           3,65'h         t,926             3,338                      11,816
4.  Assumed ICOR /5                              2             0.5                1                         1.1
5.  (3 x 4) Total Fixed
investment                            7,308          2,412             3,338                      12,997
6.  Assumed permanent working
capitalffixed assets /6                  0.5           0.5                0.5                       0.5
7.  (5 x 6) Total permanent
working capital                       3,654          1,206             1,669                       6,499
8.  (5 + 7) Total investment                10,962           3,618            5,007                       19,496
9.  Demand for credit in percent 17                           35                35
10.  Credit demand from SMI (Rs)               3,837          1,266            1,752                        6,824
11.  Credit demand in US$ /8                     207             68                95                         369
Y.r---e  .redit ColDnlv (T198  /9                         17                31                         102 /10
1/  All GDP estimates are based on Central Bank figures made available to the appraisal mission.
2/  Assuming a real growth rate of 6.0% p.a. slightly higher than growth of GDP.
3/  Assuming a real growth rate of 10.5% p.a.
4/ The share of SMIs in manufacturing GDP has been estimated at 25% of total for registered firms and 33% for total
unregistered ones. The share of SMIs in construction is assumed to be 40% and is based on analysis by the SMI
mission and consultants. These shares are assumed to remain constant over the period 1981-1984.
5/  Since a large part of future investment will have to be for replacement of worn out equipment as well as for
expansion, the assumed ICORs are probably underestimates. The ICOR for the economy has been estimated at 3.7
and for industry at 3.0.
6/  Based upon subloans financed under SMI II and historical patterns.
7/ The average debt:equity ratio of SMIs financed under SMI II is expected to be about 70:30. However, it is assumed
that in the case of about 50% of SMI investments, the entrepreneurs have a preference for self-financing or are not
in a position to package projects for presentation to credit institutions, Therefore, it is assumed that, if SMIs
had complete access to term credit, the effective demand for credit would represent about 42% of total investment
requirements..
8/  Assuming a constant exchange rate of Rs 18.5 per US$.
9/ Due to constraints in SMI lending operations, about 60% of the potential demand for institutional credit is
expected to be met during the 1981-84 period. The SMI II Project would account for US$28 million in
IDA funding and US$7 million for the PCIs; also, the SMI Fund of NDB would plough back about US$20 million of
SMI I and II repayments into SMI loans. The commercial banks are expected to provide another US$20 million mainly
in working capital from their own resources: DFCC could supply about US$6 million; and finance and leasing
companies another US$6 million. Refinance by the Central Bank could constitute another US$15 million equivalent.
10/  These estimates are based upon a conservative assumption of a 3 year commitment and 4 year disbursement period
for SMI II. However, if, as could be expected, commitment and disbursement periods are shorter, implementation
of SMI III could be accelerated, with credit meeting a larger percentage of total investment requirements.



SRI LANKA
INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE
(in percent)
A.   DEPOSIT RATES
Fixed Deposits
Treasury        Savings
Bills          Deposits        3 months        6 months        12 months        24 months
1.  People's Bank              13          10 - 13.5         12 - 14           15              20                22
2.   Bank of Ceylon            13          10 - 13.5         12 - 14           15              20                22
3.   Hatton's Bank             13          10 - 13.5         12 - 14           15              20                22
4.   Commercial Bank
of Ceylon               13          10 - 13.5         12 - 14           15              20                22
5.  DFCC                       -                  
6.   National Savings
Bank                                   12                               15              20
B.   LENDING RATES
SMIs                                                             Prime Rate
Large Private            Public            for Industrial
Secured        Unsecured        Industries           Corporations         Borrowers
1.  People's Bank              18                -               18                   18                     18
2.   Bank of Ceylon            19               19               19                   19                     19
3.   Hatton's Bank             19              22              19 - 22                 -                     19
4.   Commercial Bank
Qf Ceylon               19              22              19 - 22                19                    19
5.   DFCC                      17                -               17                    -                     17
6.   NDB                       17                                17                   17                     17
rD >c
Source:  Information supplied to the SMI II appraisal mission by commercial banks, DFCC, NDB, and
Central Bank of Ceylon. Rates reflected here were those at the time of Dropet
appraisal.



49 -                                            ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 1
SRI LANKA:  SMI II PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR NDB-SMI FUTND
(Rs)
A. ASSUMPTIONS
1.        Number of subloans (by size of subloan):  Rs 0 to Rs 500,000 - 85%; Rs 500,001 to 1 million - 10%;
Rs 1 million to 2 million - 51.
2.        Amount of Refin;3nce:
Size Category            Subprojet Size 1/           Average  Size       Average                         Ref inance
7Rs.)                        (RS)                     (Rs)                (Rs)                     (Rs)
0 - 500,000                 0 - 714,000                      357,000              250,000                200,000
500,001 - 1 million         714,001 - 1,429,000           1,071,000              750,000                 600,000
1 million - 2 million       1,429,001 - 2,857,000          2,143,000           1,500,000               1,200,000
3.        Number of Subloans:
Breakdown       Average       Weighted      Breakdown       Total Credit         Number
Category            Ny Number       Refinance       Average      by Amount       Allocation        of Subloans
(Rs)                  (%)            (Rs)          (Rs M)          (%)            (Rs M)            (Units)
0 - 500,000                     85           200,000         17.0           58.6            295.3             1,785
500,001 - 1 million             10           600,000          6.0           20.7            104.1               210
1 million - 2 million            5         1,200,000          6.0           20.7            104.3               105
100                          29.0          100.0            504.0             2,100
4.        Refinance Commitments: first year (25%) - Rs 126.0 million; second year (35%) - Rs 176.4 million;
third year (40%) - Rs 201.6 million.  Total:  Rs 504 million.
5.        Disbursement Pattern:  58% within the first six months of approval; 37% in the following six months;
and the remaining 5% in the following six months period. On a monthly basis: 3% in the month of approval;
13% in the second month after approval; 18% in the third month; 12% in the fourth; 12% in the fifth; 10% in
the sixth; 8% in the seventh; 7% in the eighth; and 83% within nine months of approval. On an annual basis,
with equal monthly commitments, this is equivalent to 63% in the first year and 37% in the second year.
6.        Average maturity:  six years including one year of grace.
7.        SMI Fund administrative expenses (Rs m):  1980 Actual: 0.7; 1981 Estimate: 1.0; 1982 Forecast:
1.3; 1983 Forecast: 1.4; 1984 Forecast: 1.6; and 1985 Forecast: 1.8.
8.        Technical service component disbursements:  40% in the first year; 40% in the second; and 20% in
the third year.
9.        Commitment period:  assumed SMI I fully committed at April 30, 1981.  SMI II commitment over three
years: May 1, 1981 to April 30, 1984.
10.       Retroactive financing:  assumed signing of IDA credit by October 30, 1981.
11.       Repayments to GOSL:  on a fixed 13 year schedule, including four years' grace.
B. Calculations: SMI II Portion
1. Disbursements (Rs million):
Year 1             Year 2              Year 3             Year 4
Commitment:  Year 1               126.0              79.4                46.6
Year 2             176.4                                  111.1               65.3
Year 3             201.6                                                     127.0                74.6
504.0              79.4               157.7              192.3                74.6
1/ Assuming 30% average sponsor's participation.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 2
2. Repayments (Rs million)
Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4
Commitment:  Year 1                63.0                12.6                12.6                12.6                12.6
63.0                                   12.6                12.6                12.6
Year 2               88.2                                   17.6                17.6                 17.6
88.2                                                       17.6                17.6
Year 3              100.8                                                       20.2                 20.2
100.8                                                                           20.2
504.0               12.6                42.8                80.6               100.8
3. Refinance Outstanding (Rs million)
Disbursements                                          79.4               157.7               192.3                74.6
Repayments                                             12.6                42.8                80.6               100.8
Net Movement                                     66.8               114.9               111.7                (26.2)
Cumulative                                             66.8               181.7               293.4               267.2
Average Outstanding                              33.4               124.3               237.6                280.3
4. Income to SMI Fund (Rs million)
Spread on refinance at 2%                               0.7                 2.5                 4.8                 5.6
C. Calculations: SMI I (Rs million)
Actual                                 Forecast
Year I       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6
1. Disbursements
Commitments:        Year 1:         20.0        10.0         10.0
Year 2:       180.0           -          54.0          126.0
200.0        10.0         64.0          126.0           -            -            -
2. Repayments
Commitments:        Year 1:         10.0         2.0          2.0            2.0          2.0           2.0
10.0          -           2.0            2.0           2.0          2.0          2.0
Year 2         90.0           -          18.0           18.0         18.0          18.0         18.0
90.0          -            -            18.0         18.0          18.0         18.0
200.0         2.0         22.0          .40.0         40.0          40.0         38.0
3. Payments to GOSL
Fixed Schedule                                    -             -            -            -            22.0         22.0
4. Refinance Outstanding
Disbursements:                                  10.0         64.0          126.0            -            -             -
Repayments:                                      2.0         22.0           40.0         40.0          40.0         38.0
Net Movement                               8.0          42.0          86.0         (40.0)       (40.0)        (38.0)
Cumulative                                       8.0         50.0          136.0         96.0          56.0         18.0
Average Outstanding                        4.0          29.0          93.0         116.0         76.0          37.0
5. Net Income
On refinance at 2%                               0.1           0.6           1.9           2.3          1.5           0.7
Administrative Expenses                          0.5           0.7           1.0           1.2          1.4           1.6
(0.4)        (0.1)          0.9           1.1          0.1          (0.9)



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 3
D. Consolidated Position (Rs million)
Year I       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6
1. _ag on Reimbursement
Disbursements:  SMI I                            30.0         64.0         126.0
SMI II                                                    79.4        157.7        192.3          74.6
Refinance Total                                  10.0         64.0         205.4        157.7        192.3          74.6
Technical:        SMI I                                        4.5          33.8         33.7
SMI II                                                    10.8         14.4          10.8
Total reimbursable                               10.0         68.5         250.0        205.8        203.1          74.6
Lag at three months                               2.5         17.1          62.5         51.5         50.8          18.7
Incremental WC                                    2.5         14.6          45.4        (10.9)        (0.71)       (32.1)
2. Net Cash Flow
Inflow:  Capital                                 20.0
Net Income: SMI I                           (0.4)        (0.1)         0.9           1.1          0.1         (0.9)
SMI II                                                    0.7          2.5          4.8           5.6
Repayments: SMI I                           2.0          22.0         40.0         40.0          40.0         38.0
SMI II                                                   12.6         42.8         80.6         100.8
Investment Income at 10%                    1.9           2.5          3.3         12.9          22.9        _34.7
23.5         24.4         57.5          99.3        148.4        178.2
Outflow:  WC Lag                                  2.5         14.6          45.4        (10.9)         (0.7)         -
GOSL Payments                          -            -            -             -           22.0          22.0
Assets Purchased                       1.0                        -            -                   -
3.5         14.6         45.4         (10.9)        21.3         22.0
Surplus                                          20.0          9.8          12.0        110.2        127.1         200.2
Cumulative                                       20.0         29.8          41.9
3. Retroactive Financing
Taken at the level of the expected SMI activity in 1981/82, i.e. Rs 10.5 million per month
in approvals.
May         June         July          August          September           November
Disburse:
July                -          0.3          1.4            1.9               1.3                1.3
August              -           -           0.3            1.4               1.9                1.3
September           -           -            -             0.3               1.4                1.9
October             -           -                           -                0.3                1.4
November            -           -             -             -                 -                 0.3
0.3          1.7            3.6              4.9                6.2



- 52 -                                       ANNEX 2
Table 5
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDILM-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Costs and Sources of Finance for Technical Service Components
(US$ 000)
Cost and Source of Financing
GOSL/
Responsible Institution                    Purpose                    Element               IDA     Agency      Total
1.   Industrial Development Board    SMI Consultancy Fund            (a) Local Consultants        100       30         130
(400 manmonths)
Coaching - Regional Staff    (a) Five Coaches              300      110         410
(60 manmonths)
Expansion - Engineering       (a) Buildings and
Technical Service Centers         Equipment                160        30        190
(b) Consultants (12
manmonths)               60        70         90
Subtotal, IDB                                                                                620      200         820
2.   Export Development Board          Export and Product             (a) Consultancy             290       90         380
Development - light           (b) Training                 170       20         190
industries. 1/                (c) Facilities and           250       60         310
equipment
(d)  Trips                   90        30        120
Subtotal, EDB                                                                                800      200       1,000
3.   NDB and Credit Institutions      Consultancy - NDB              (a) ICICI (18
manmonths)               90        -          90
(b) SMI Fund -
coaching (12
manmonths)               60        _          60
(c) Subsector analysis
section (local
consultAncy)             50        -          50
Training - NDB and credit
institutions                  (a) Outside Training -
30-35 SMI officers       70M                  70
Consultancy to PCIs - MIS    (a) 12 manmonths               60        -          60
Subtotal, N1W, an(tl P                                                                       330       -          330
4.   Contingencies and Expansion -   Expansion of Technical
SMI Coordinating Committee       Service Components of SMI
I and II                                                   250      100         350
TOTAL, TECHNICAL AND                                                                       2, 000     500       2,500
MARKETING SERVICES                                                                           -        -
A
1/ Breakdowns provided for the Export Development Board are rough estimates. Funds would not be allocated
for specific purposes at the outset; rather, annual action programs consisting of consultancy,
training, equipment, facilities, and trips would be agreed by EDB and IDA prior to each calendar
year, during the commitment period.



53 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 6
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS FOR TBE PROPOSED CREDIT
t
IDA Fiscal Year                     Disbursements
and quarter
By Quarter         Cumulative
(US$000s)
FY82
To March 31, 1982                     0.8               0.8
June 30, 1982                     1.1                1.9
FY83
To September 30, 1982                 1.5               3.4
December 31, 1982                 1.5                4.9
March 31, 1983                    1.8                6.7
June 30, 1983                     2.0                8.7
FY84
To September 30, 1983                 2.2              10.9
December 31, 1983                 2.2               13.1
March 31, 1984                    2.8               15.9
June 30, 1984                     2.8               18.7
FY85
To September 30, 1984                 2.9              21.6
December 31, 1984                 2.5               24.1
March 31, 1985                     2.0              26.1
June 30, 1985                     1.6               27.7
FY86
To September 30, 1985                 1.4              29.1
December 31, 1985                 0.9               30.0



- 54 -                  ANNEX 3
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supporting Documents Available in Project File
A.   Manufacturing Sector and Financial System
Al    Central Bank of Ceylon - Review of the Economy (1979).
A2    Selected tables from the Surveys of Manufacturing Industry
by the Ministry of Industry and Scientific Affairs and from
the Survey of Unregistered Industries by the Industrial
Development Board.
A3    Background papers on major SMI subsectors:  metal products;
rubber products; selected agroindustries; construction
contracting and building materials; and textiles and garments.
B.  Lending Component
'Bl    Draft of amended SMI Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Central
Bank of Ceylon.
B2    National Development Bank - revised Draft Statement of Policies
and Procedures for the Small and Medium Industry Fund.
B3    Draft Participation Agreement between the National Development
Bank and participating credit institutions, including minimum
SMI staffing requirements.
C.   Technical and Marketing Services
Cl    Draft Statement of Policies and Operating Procedures for the
SMI Consultancy Fund of the National Development Bank.
C2    Export Development Board - Outline of Tasks to Prepare Year 1
Action Program.
C3    Export Development Board - Draft Statement of Policies and
Procedures for Fund to Promote Exports in Selected Light
Industrial Products.
C4    Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants.
C5    Progress Report and Action Programs for Technical and Marketing
Components of SMI I (942-CE).
D.   Reports Prepared Under Credit 942-CE
a
Dl    IDB - Consultant's Report on Subcontracting Exchange.
D2    IDB - Consultant's Report on Electroplating and other Common
Services for Light Engineering.
D3    IDB - Survey and Diagnosis of Rubber Products SMIs.
D4     TI. - Consultant's Report on Garment Training Institute.
D5    DTI - Memorandum of Association for Lanka Handloom Exports,
Pvt. Ltd.
D6    MFP - Report on Phase I of Study of Effective Protection Rates



IBRD 15823
80                                 81                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1980
Th,s map has Seas otapatast bykt..
WaidBasO  s  osoas o
tOt cos -aiat of. th easo
w-edpsetst.oh't-t,Att-o,t
Th fl5tt5O5S ~                                         okeotrt
OOOStht*t ShOyst Os this sStIaLANK
N                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVLANK
T.I.,                              M-k.Wnst 5,                                                   0      OE0 1I TWN
4000,esonsstar      Mo,tkslese       '55~~~~~~~~                         tCKLOMETERS
Moos,or 0                                                                                                                                               9s~~~3   ir 
A   non,a d                                                                                            1         
0~~~~~~ 
tr e-       C.N Ra
PoIIolos,  *~~~~~~~~~~~~55050         A5                          2                        EP.~1
W,E/ Si ~~~~R0J  .55~~ta/              I 
Ch,loss.                                   -                 i      "~~-             B ~00' CO  0'    ~ Eotduli?                               7
-E0
Negostb                                                                                   0 'kgoa 0    r ga  '
0                                                              ,,',~~~~0Op~
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~ ~ o
S 0 0- T F 1  0R7N
lootstolossoc                                                             Eodslls,M t.r
tDtOtfOOt'ST    -.  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AJO~~2



