Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
dLE   (,jp?Y                     Report No. P-3124-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
September 23, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. fts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =   Rs 20.0
Rs 1         =   US$0.05
Rs 1 million =   US$50,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)           = 0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)           = 1.609 kilometers (km)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOC    -   Bank of Ceylon
DFCC   -   Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon
EDB    -   Export Development Board
IDB    -   Industrial Development Board
NDB    -   National Development Bank
PCI    -   Participating Credit Institution
SMI    -   Small and Medium Industries
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Sri Lanka   -   January 1 to December 31
Commercial Banks           -   January 1 to December 31
DFCC                       -   April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI. LAN-A
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INWDUSTRIES PROJECT
Credi an. and Project Sumnsary
Borrower:              The Democratic Socialist RePublic of Sri Lanlka.
Beneficiaries:         National Development Bank (NDB) - Small and Medium
Industries (SMI) Fund; Bank of Ceylon, People's Bank,
Hatton National Bank, Commercial Bank of Ceylon and
Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon; and small
and medium industries receiving credit, technical and
marketing services.
Amount:                SDRs 26.7 million (US$30 million e,- ivalent at the time
of negotiations).
Relending Terms:       Government would relend IJO".WC3.  million equivalent to
the Natiorial Developcernc Sank for the account of the SMI
Fund on the following initial terms:  (i) 11% interest
per annum; (ii) repayment on the basis of a fixed amor-
tization schedule over a 14-year term including 4 years
of grace; and (iii) Government to bear foreign exchange
risk.  The SMI Fund would provide refinancing to credit
institutions for small and medium industry loans on the
following initial terms: (i) refinancing for up to 80%
of loan amount; (ii) interest per annum of 13% for sub-
loans of up to Rs 500,000 and 14% for subloans from Rs
500,000 to Rs 2 million; and (iii) term of refinancing
parallel to the term of the individual loans. The
credit institutions would provide term credit to small
and medium industries on the following terms: (i)
initial interest rate of 18% per annum; (ii) term of
the loan determined as appropriate for each loan, but
in no case for more than 10 years, including 3 months
to 2 years of grace; and (iii) minimum of 20% equity
contribution.
Project                The project aims at increasing output, employment, effi-
Description:          ciency and exports of viable small and medium industries.
It builds on the institutional capabilities developed
under the Small and Medium Industries Project (Credit No.
942-CE), while inicreasing emphasis on exports. The prin-
cipal components of the project would include: (a) term
loans to SMIs from participating credit institutions
(PCIs) with subproject review and partial refinance by
the SMI Fund of NDB; (b) training and consultancy for the
SMI Fund of NDB and the PCIs, to improve SMI and overall
operations; (c) improvemenits _n the Industrial Development
Board (IDB)?s promotion and extension services, through
an SMI conssultancy fund to tap the expertise of the local
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.]



- ii -
private sector, coaches for regional extension officers,
and an expansion of engineering service facilities; and
(d) financing the Export Development Board (EDB) program
for promotion and supply development of light industrial
exports, including consultancy and training, sales trips,
policy studies, and pilot projects involving exporters
and manufacturers in key light industrial groups. The
benefits of the project include the provision of term
credit to about 2,000 new and existing enterprises and
the creation of about 23,000 new jobs. Project risks
are reduced since this project would build on the organi-
zation and capabilities developed under the first S-MI
Project.
Estimated Cost: /a
US$ Million Equivalent
Foreign   Local   Total
Term loan for SMIs                     17.00    33.00   50.00
IDB                                     0.41     0.41    0.82
EDB                                     0.55     0.45    1.00
Training & Consultancy for
NDB and PCIs                          0.19     0.14    0.33
Expansion Fund                          0.22     0.13    0.35
Total                               18.37    34.13   52.50
(of which taxes and duties)              -       5.00    5.00
Net Project Cost                       18.37    29.13   47.50
Financing Plan:
US$ Million Equivalent
Foreign   Local   Total
Government                                -      0.50    0.50
IDA                                    18.37    11.63   30.00
PCIs                                      -       7.00    7.00
SMIs                                      -     15.00   15.00
Total                                  18.37    34.13   52.50
Estimated
Disbursement:
US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY                     FY82   FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Annual                      1.9    6.8    10.0       9.0      2.3
Cumulative                  1.9    8.7    18.7    27.7    30.0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No.   3480-CE dated September 14, 1981
Map:                  No. IBRD 15823
/a   Price contingencies are included in project costs.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A SECOND SMiALL AND MEDIUMi INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the
equivalent of US$30.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second
Small and Medium Industries (SMI) Project. Of the proceeds of the credit,
US$28.0 million equivalent would be relent to the National Development Bank
(NDB) for the account of the Small and Medium Industry Fund at 11% interest
per annum with repayment over a period of 14 years, including 4 years of grace,
on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report, "Sri Lanka:  Policies and Prospects
for Economic Adjustment" (Report No. 3466-CE, May 15, 1981), was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 26, 1981. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy has
experienced sustained growth. This growth has been the direct result of the
economic liberalization of 1977. and the development push associated with it.
Until 1977, Sri Lanka's growth performance had been below both need and poten-
tial. Although GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the
average for low income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77
period to 2.9% per annum, just below the average for low income countries.
Through much of this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding
even these modest gains; as a consequence, per capita gross national income
rose by a mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in
economic growth in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of
factors, including inadequate investment, poor management of the economy,
and a policy environment not conducive to growth and investment; these factors
were compounded by poor weather in some years and a sharp rise in the cost of
imported food and petroleum.
4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate
incentives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate system,
introduced in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncer-
tainties surrounding a protracted natiorialization (1972-75) of the larger
estates. After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recom-
mendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a proposed
credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a Mahaweli
Ganga Development Project III (Report No. 3082-CE, dated June 1, 1981).



- 2 -
cropping intensities declined in the 1970-77 period due to poor institutional
support. Investment in manufacturing was also low, and the inefficiency of
most public and private sector firms, nurtured in a highly protected environ-
ment, resulted in growth of manufacturing of 1% per annum. The only bright
spots were subsidiary food crops and industrial exports which benefited from
good incentives.
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and uncontrolled growth in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public investment.
Unfavorable policies additionally constrained private savings. The slow
growth rates and changes in the structure of output provided neither the jobs
nor the employment structure for a growing labor force. Low output growth,
the excessive capital intensity of investment, the mismatch between the job
aspirations of those with post-primary education and the jobs available to
them, the post war demographic bulge, and rising female participation rates
contributed to a massive increase in open unemployment, estimated at over 1
million, or some 18% of the labor force in 1977.
6.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relatiotn to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s paralleled gains in income distri-
bution. These improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in
health standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized
food, have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing
age of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, population growth, net of migration, has dropped steadily,
from 2.7% per annum in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.2% per annum in the
1963-71 period, and 1.7% per annum during 1971-81.
7.        Favorable initial conditions induced these social gains.  Compulsory
primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The food ration was intro-
duced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948, Sri Lanka already
enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy. These initial gains
were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence period through large
expenditures on social services and the food subsidy, expenditures which
accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s and
early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by capturing
the surpluses of the three major tree crops, which provided the Government
with easy sources of revenue and foreign exchange. These surpluses began to
decline in the late 1960s as government policies discriminated against tree
crops and export unit prices weakened. As growth in other productive sectors
also decelerated in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources available for
social programs were squeezed between inelastic revenues and rapid inflation.
As a consequence, expenditures for social services other than the food subsidy
began to decline as a proportion of total current expenditures and of GDP,
threatening the hard-won gains in health and education. In short, the economy
could no longer generate the resources needed to sustain a large program of
welfare expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the
scope for policy makers to shift resources to development.



- 3 -
8.        The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The
new Government identified its objectives as the sustained revival and resus-
citation of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capa-
city utilization in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and
investment, and (iii) efforts to encourage exports, and import substitution in
foodgrains. A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation
with the IMF. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979 the Fund's
Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement to cover the
1979-81 period. The principal aim of the reform program was to dismantle
controls over resource allocation and initiate price adjustments with a view
to establishing more realistic relative prices. By 1980, these goals had
largely been achieved.
9.        The program of reforms comprised a number of major policy initia-
tives. The exchange rate was unified 1/ on November 16, 1977 at a depreciated
rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float. This implied a depreciation of
46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unification, and 11.2% with
respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate rate. The trade and
payments regime was liberalized. Public sector import monopolies were almost
entirely terminated. Prior licensing of imports was abolished for all but
a handful of commodities. The tariff structure was revised and simplified.
Other budgetary taxes and subsidies were adjusted to reflect the change in
trade and exchange rate policies. In particular, rice and sugar rations were
confined to the poorer half of the population, and the food subsidy was eli-
minated through a series of adjustments in administered prices. On September 1,
1979 the Government introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families
with monthly incomes less than Rs 300, to replace specific subsidies and food
rationing, and to target benefits to the poor. To help offset the adverse
impact of these changes on real incomes, public sector wages were periodically
adjusted upwards. Public corporations were asked to pass on cost increases,
except for fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public transport, for which price
increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The
Government subsequently eliminated the overall subsidy on petroleum products
and made sizable adjustments in bus and train fares, electricity, and fertil-
izer prices. The burden of selected subsidies and transfers, as a consequence,
fell from around 9% of GDP in 1978 to around 5% in 1980. These changes, and
higher aid receipts, have helped permit a sizable increase in capital expendi-
tures.
10.       Agricultural pricing policies have changed dramatically.  The
domestic support price for paddy was increased by 21% in November 1977, by
25% in November 1980, and by a further 5% in February 1981 following a sub-
stantial increase in fertilizer prices. With the related increase in flour
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
prices, incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. At the
same time there occurred a large policy-induced decline in the role of the
state in domestic rice trade. Fresh coconut prices were also increased and
the export duty on coconut products was appropriately adjusted. While the
unification of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against tree
crops, high export duties, particularly on tea, continued to siphon off most
of the operating surplus for the Government. As tea prices fell and produc-
tion costs rose in 1978-79, the Government responded to the reduced producer
margins by lowering taxes on tea. The Government also ended most price
controls, and reformed the interest rate and tax systems. The burden of
company and personal taxation was lowered, and the taxation system was
rationalized to increase revenue elasticity; nevertheless, the overall revenue
elasticity to economic growth and domestic inflation remains low as taxes on
slowly growing tree crop exports have averaged over 30% of current revenues.
Interest rates were also raised sharply to encourage savings and discourage
speculative imports. However, inflation eroded these rates and in April 1980
further upward adjustments were made.
11.       These economic reforms were accompanied by a major effort to step
up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped from 6% of
GDP in 1977 to an average of 13% in 1978 and 1979, and 19% in 1980, as govern-
ment departments responded to the initial improvement in the budgetary resource
position and embarked on long overdue replacement investments and new projects
that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources. At the same time, the
Government undertook three major new programs which are to be the lead projects
in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are: (i) accelerated
implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by far the largest
multi-purpose river basin development program ever undertaken in Sri Lanka;
(ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a newly consti-
tuted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established the first of
several Investment Promotion Zones near Colombo's international airport and by
end-1980 had signed agreements with 64 investors involving a total investment
of USQ130 million; and (iii) a massive housing and urban renewal program with
its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region, including the construction
of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb of Colombo. Budgetary expenditures
on these three programs will amount to Rs 34 billion, or 52% of projected
budgetary resources over the 1981-85 period. The underlying public investment
strategy seeks to balance the large investment requirements of the Government's
high priority programs with the urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment
needs in other sectors. The main thrust of the public sector program is to
lay the foundation for longer term development, both by encouraging efficient
use of existing infrastructure investments and by expanding the longer term
growth capacity of the economy. The strategy thus implicitly relies on the
private sector to respond to the economic reforms and the stimulus of the
public sector investment program, and provide much of the short-term growth.
Private fixed investment has so far responded well, increasing from about 7%
of GDP in 1977 to 15% by 1980, and helping overall fixed investment to exceed
33% of GDP in 1980.



- 5 -
12.       In response to the policy reforms and the accompanying acceleration
in investment, economic growth in 1978-1980 averaged an impressive 6.8% per
annum. This growth was shared by almost all sectors of the economy, particu-
larly construction and services. The only major exception has been the tree
crop sector. The impressive performance is due to a number of factors includ-
ing the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal of
price controls. Although there is little data available on employment, Cetntral
Bank estimates suggest that unemploymernt dropped from 18% of the labor force
to 15% between 1977 and 1979.
13.       Despite this strong performance, major weaknesses in economic
performance emerged in 1980. In particular, the national savings effort has
not matched the rapid rise in investment. Gross national savings fluctuated
around 15% of GDP during the 1978-80 period, while recourse to foreign savings
to finance the higher investment rose from 4.5% of GDP in 1978 to 19.5% in
1980. Although the Government has succeeded in containing the costly consumer
subsidy and transfer programs, expenditures on which declined as a percent of
GDP (para 9), relatively inelastic revenues combined with steadily rising
other recurrent expenditures and declining terms of trade resulted in hardly
any public savings over the 1978-80 period. As a result, the Government has
financed its rapidly rising capital expenditures thirough foreign aid, and
increased its domestic borrowings. Initially the Government met its domestic
financing requirements through non-expansionary borrowings from captive finan-
cial institutions, which could mobilize increased private savings following
the interest rate reform. However, resources mobilized through these channels
have not grown as rapidly as the budgetary deficit, and the Government has been
increasingly forced to undertake expansionary borrowings from the Central Bank.
Between 1978 and 1979, these rose from 0.4% to 1.2% of GDP and in 1980 increased
sharply to 10.5% of GDP.
14.       Inflation has also increased sharply since 1977.  The exchange rate
adjustment, the other policy-induced price increases and related wage increases,
the removal of price controls, and the build-up of external assets, which
added to the money supply, contributed significantly to irnlationary pressures
in 1978 and 1979. However, these were moderated by bumper paddy harvests,
increased capacity utilization in the economy, increased availability of
imports, and the beneficial effects of competition from imports and in domes-
tic distribution. Since then, rapid growth in the broad money supply--38% in
1979 and 32% in 1980--has added a sizable "built-in" increase to the system.
Together with the corrective price increases designed to reduce budgetary
subsidies and keep pace with rapid increases in international petroleum,
wheat and sugar prices, these pressures have caused inflation (as measured by
the Colombo Consumer Price Index) to accelerate from an average of 11% in 1978
and 1979, to 26% in 1980.
15.       Rapid expansion in economic activity has been reflected most vividly
in the balance of payments. Import volume growth since 1978 has averaged 15%.
Between 1978 and 1980, the net petroleum import bill more than tripled and
increased from 11% to 36% of non-petroleum exports, while capital goods imports
more than doubled in response to the acceleration in investment. However,



-6-
exports have shown barely any volume growth as declining tree crop export
volumes offset the strong growth in garments exports and petroleum re-exports.
These adverse trade volume trends were compounded by a 20% terms of trade
deterioration over the same period. The rapid growth in tourism receipts
and private remittances from abroad in this period failed to offset the deter-
ioration on the trade account and the current account deficit rose from $124
million (4.5% of GDP) to $805 million in 1980 (19.5% of GDP). In 1978 and
1979, rapidly rising non-monetary capital inflows due mainly to increased net
aid disbursements more than offset the current account deficit and Sri Lanka
continued to add to its net international reserves, albeit at a declining
rate. In 1980, however, net international reserves fell by $220 million, and
by end-1980 gross international reserves stood at $377 million, or equivalent
to less than nine weeks of imports of goods and non-factor services. With
the rapid drawdown in reserves, the public sector, especially the public cor-
porations, have begun to make significant use of commercial foreign financing.
16.       The Government, realizing in early 1981 that continuation of the
1980 trends would risk continued high inflation and unsustainable pressures
on the balance of payments, took corrective steps. The 1981 budget proposes
to reduce government capital expenditures from 19% of GDP in 1980 to 14% of
GDP in 1981, and the overall budgetary deficit was reduced from 21% to 15%
between 1980 and 1981. In addition, the Government has moved to limit
public sector purchases of equipment and construction of new buildings and
taken steps to raise additional resources and impose a control mechanism over
capital expenditures by public corporations.   Nevertheless, continued strong
measures will be required throughout the medium term to ensure that public
sector investment is consistent with available resources, as many of the large
development schemes the Government has initiated are only now gathering full
momentum.
i7/       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the Government's
development initiatives, the average level of aid commitments in 1978-80 was
almost 120% higher in nominal terms and almost 40% higher in real terms than
in 1975-77, Most of the growth came in project aid, reflecting the Govern-
ment's efforts to increase investment, particularly in the Accelerated Mahaweli
Program. Since public investment is already over-programmed, continued high
levels of aid will depend upon donors' abilities to shift from project to
non-project aid and to finance a sizable portion of local costs; the Govern-
ment will need to maintain donor confidence in its economic policies and
management through a vigorous domestic resource mobilization program and
continued restraint on government expenditures.  Despite recent measures to
support its investment program, Sri Lanka's budgetary situation remains tight.
The adverse impact on revenues of slowly rising export prices and volumes,
and rapidly rising import prices, has increased budgetary pressures. Local
cost financing, in support of Sri Lanka's own resource mobilization efforts
will not only provide valuable relief to these budgetary pressures but also
supplement foreign exchange resources needed in support of balance of payments.
18.       External public debt outstanding and disbursed stood at US$1,335
million at the end of 1980, amounting to about 35% of GDP. However, this is
almost all long-term concessional debt. As a result, the debt service burden
is relatively low; debt service ratio in 1980 excluding IMF repurchases stood
at 9.3% of exports of goods and non-factor services, declining from 13.3% in



- 7 -
1977. While this sustained decline is due in part to improved export earnings,
the main cause has been a decline in outstanding short- and medium-term com-
mercial borrowings. Unless the ratio of the current account deficit to GDP
improves, Sri Lanka will again have to begin undertaking significant shorter
maturity commercial borrowings to fill the gap between the current account
deficit and likely concessional aid flows. In that case, the debt service
*          ratio could increase quickly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
19.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has approved eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancellations)
and 29 credits totalling US$529 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 35 projects. About 54% of Bank Group assistance
has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development),
13% for power, 12% for transport, and the remainder for development finance
company operations, a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw
materials for industry), water supply, telecommunications and small and medium
industries. Eight loans and eight credits have been fully disbursed so far.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of June 30,
1981, together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the Dev-
elopment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and two IFC lines of credit
totalling US$7.0 million have been made to the Government-owned Bank of Ceylon
(BOC). The first IFC loan to BOC, made effective in 1979, consisted of US$2
million for term loans to firms with fixed assets of below Rs 6 million
(US$385,000); the second IFC loan of US$5.0 million is geared to larger enter-
prises with eligible subloans ranging from US$83,000 to US$1 million. IFC also
approved an investment of US$3.68 million in a synthetic textile mill, and
US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in FY79. During FY80,
IFC approved an increase in equity investment of about US$51,000 equivalent
in DFCC and an investment of US$260,000 in an equipment leasing company. In
FY81, IFC approved an investment of about US$0.7 million in equity and about
US$17 million in loans for a new hotel project in Colombo.
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy focusses on the agricultural sector.
It aims to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes and
living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. This strategy includes
projects to support basic infrastructure. In addition to providing financing
for the Second and Third Mahaweli Ganga Development Projects and the Mahaweli
Ganga Technical Assistance Project, the Bank Group is assisting the Government
in accelerating the implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program
principally through coordinating external assistance. The Board approved a
Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project on June 16 and the Third Mahaweli
Ganga Development Project on June 23, 1981. Currently under appraisal are a
second tea rehabilitation project, and a Mahaweli Power Transmission Project.



- 8 -
22.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 9.7% (IBRD, 2.3%; IDA, 7.4%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (over 80% IBRD)
of debt service on medium and long term debt. The projected Bank Group's
share in total existing external debt outstanding and disbursed will increase
to 17% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining to 1.3%). The Bank and IDA
portions of this debt service are expected to decline to about 4% by 1985.
PART III - THE SECTOR
23.       Manufacturing accounts for about 14% of GDP and consists of 29
public sector corporations; about 9000 registered private factories composed
largely of small and medium industries; and over 20,000 unregistered small
and cottage industries. Industrial growth slowed from 7.8% in 1978 to 4.6% in
1979, and to about 0.8% in 1980. However, this deceleration has been due to
weak performance in many public sector enterprises and in tree crops processing
industries. Growth of private sector manufacturing has continued to be buoyant
during the 1977-80 period; "factory industry" grew at an average annual rate
of nearly 7% and annual growth of unregistered small and cottage firms averaged
over 9%. Construction and mining/quarrying, in which small firms have a major
role, grew by 20% and 9% annually during the 1977-80 period. By 1980, manufac-
turing, mining, and construction constituted about 29% of GDP, nearly equal to
the 28% share of agriculture and related sectors. Measures to increase private
industrial output and exports while controlling public expenditures will remain
important in addressing problems with inflation, trade, and budgetary deficits.
24.       Manufactured exports, excluding petroleum, almost doubled in value
between 1978 and 1979, with the growth rate slowing to about 30% in 1980.
Growth in garment exports dominated in both years. In 1979, seafoods, ceramics,
rubber and metal product exports also showed substantial growth from a low
base. In 1980, however, seafood exports declined and exports in the smaller
light industrial groups stagnated. Garment industries may be started with
relative ease, but significant growth in other promising light industrial
product groups will require systematic promotion, technical and marketing
services.
Policy FramewQrk
25.       Most private industrial firms appear to have benefitted from libera-
lization of imports and improved export incentives. The rapid increase in
approvals for establishing industrial enterprises and the sharp expansion in
demand for term loans by SMIs reflect the ability of most firms to meet com-
petition from imported finished products.  However, the needed move toward
efficient enterprise has been hampered by the unequal, and often high, levels
of protection through the tariff system. A study of the tariff system,
financed under the first SMI Project, indicates a wide variation in effective
protection rates (EPR), ranging from -50% to over 1,000%. The study team is
preparing recommendations for phased revisions in the tariff system to reduce
this variation in EPRs, beginning with the extremes. In addition, the EPRs
could provide a more accurate basis for determining value added in non-
traditional export industries, under the recently approved Export Expansion
Scheme (para 44).



- 9-
Characteristics and Role of SMIs
26.       SIls continue to dominate private manufacturing, accounting for
over 90% of private industrial units, over 70% of employment and over 50%
of value added in private manufacturing. In 1978, only 5% of the 9,000 regis-
tered private firms had fixed assets of over Rs 1 million; none of the 20,000
unregistered firms exceeded this investment amount.  In the 1978-80 period,
the Local Investment Advisory Committee (LIAC) approved nearly 5,000 indus-
trial investments averaging Rs 600,000 (US$30,000) per unit. About 65% of
registered SMIs are in and around Colombo; unregistered small and cottage
industries are more widely dispersed among small towns and villages, with the
Colombo district holding only about 30% of the units.  The main SMI product
groups are textiles, light engineering, rubber and chemical goods, wood and
paper products. Most LIAC approvals during 1978-80 have been for these
groups and for building materials as a response to rapid growth in public
and private construction.
Institutional Finance for SMIs
27.       From June 1979 to June 1980, institutional credit to the private
sector increased by nearly 70% in nominal terms; however, a large portion was
in trade financing, particularly for imports. Industrial credit represented
about 25% of total commercial bank advances as of June 1980; while short-term
advances continued to dominate, medium- and long-term credit showed a modest
increase in share, from 19.6% of industrial advances at June 1979 to 21.4% by
June 1980. The present Government has initiated several measures to facilitate
growth in industrial and export credit. The National Development Bank (NDB)
launched operations in late 1979; NDB has made a number of term loans to lar-
ger industrial firms and has established a successful program for review and
refinance of SMI subloans made by the four local commercial banks and DFCC.
During 1980, the Government approved opening of Sri Lankan operations by for-
eign banks; to date these banks have concentrated on trade financing, foreign
exchange operations, and term financing of joint ventures. Also during 1980,
the Sri Lanka Export Credit Insurance Corporation was launched to facilitate
pre- and post-shipment credit, and the Central Bank initiated a refinance
scheme for export enterprises. These measures aim to increase the availabil-
ity of short and long term industrial finance, particularly for non-traditional
export enterprises.
28.       The first SMI Project (Credit of US$16 million, July 24, 1979) con-
tributed substantially to establishing SMI loan refinancing activities of NDB;
the project also helped build project appraisal and term lending capabilities
of the four local commercial banks and DFCC, which participated in the project.
Commitments under the first SMI Project are one year ahead of appraisal esti-
mates; NDB's refinance approvals totalled Rs 142.0 million (US$7.1 million) as
of July 31, 1981, with full commitment of the US$12 million lending component
expected by October 1981. NDB's disbursements totalled Rs 102.9 million
(US$5.2 million) on July 31, 1981, and full disbursements are expected one
year ahead of schedule. As of July 31, 1981, about 1,500 subloans averaging
US$9,500 equivalent had been approved, with fixed costs per job of under
US$1,000. Major subsectors financed have been building materials, agro-
industries, and light engineering. Over 80% of the approved subprojects are
totally dependent upon local raw materials.



- 10 -
29.       Prior to the implementation of the first SMI Project, under a joint
scheme between the two public banks and the Industrial Development Board (para
31), IUB appraised SMI projects and recommended them for commercial bank
financing; the banks had veto power only; and responsibilities for subproject
supervision were unclear. The scheme did not work well; the banks, reluctant
to take risks on subprojects appraised by another institution, rejected the
majority of IDB's proposals; and the split of responsibilities resulted in
high arrears.  Under the first SMI Project, the participating credit institu-
-ions (PCIs) were given full responsibility for appraisal and supervision of
SMK subloans; performance by the PCIs has been satisfactory. Bv the end of
CYS8, the PCIs expect to have about 200 full-time SMI officers. The proposed
Second SMI Project incorporates measures to ensure that the PCIs maintain full
responsibility for SMI lending (para 45).
30.       Credit for SMIs, which accounts for about 10% of lending to private
industry, has increased in response to the favorable investment climate and
improved term credit facilities. With sizeable growth prospects in agro-
industries, light engineering, and construction as well as other export-related
product lines, demand for term credit by SMIs is expected to continue to be
strong. The analysis of potential demand for term credit by SMIs during the
period of FY82-85 indicates that roughly US$370 million equivalent could be
needed. The proposed project would provide US$35 million, with US$28 million
in IDA financing for term loans for SMI.  Other institutional sources, includ-
ing rollover of repayments under the SMI Projects, are expected to meet about
US$67 million of SMI term financing requirements during the FY82-85 period,
with the remainder provided from equity and other sources. The size of the
subloan component of the Second SMI Project reflects the credit institutions'
appraisal and supervision capacities; the PCIs have about US$5 million in their
pipeline of SMI loans under appraisal.
SMI Technical Service Institutions
31.       The Industrial Development Board (IDB), an agency of the Ministry
of Industries and Scientific Affairs, is the major SMI development institution,
responsible for promoting and assisting all SMI subsectors except textiles
and cottage industries. The Ministry of Textile Industries (MTI) formulates
policies and implements programs for the textile and garments subsector; the
Department of Textile Industries (DTI), under MTI, is responsible for develop-
ment of small scale hardloom and powerloom units. The Department of Small
Industries (DSI), under the Ministry of Rural Industrial Development, provides
services to cottage industries; most of DSI's programs deal with promotion of
handicrafts for local sale. The Export Development Board (EDB) is the develop-
ment arm of the Export Council of Ministers, headed by the President.  EDB was
established to:  advise the Government on formulation of export development
policies and programs; do research and development on export products and
markets; and act as the central agency for export and related supply develop-
ment, coordinating the activities of key public and private agents. Several
private associations and advisory committees of exporters and manufacturers
in major product groups have been organized; EDB intends to use these private
groups to implement subsector development schemes.
32.       Under the first SMI Project, IDB has been responsible for implement-
ing technical service programs in rubber products, building materials and light



- 11 -
engineering; IDB also is launching a subcontracting exchange to facilitate
links between small and larger firms. The MTI is responsible for the Garment
Training Institute, with participation of outside consultants and the Garment
Manufacturers' Association. DTI has played a catalytic role and is a share-
holder in the establishment of Lanka Handloom Export Private Ltd., for export
of decentralized handloom production. As expected, implementation of these
product development programs has been slower than progress of the lending
component, since sites needed to be located, facilities constructed, consul-
tants hired, and local staff trained. Steps have been taken to ensure that
these programs are fully operational during CY81.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       The proposed project builds on institutional capabilities devel-
oped and components prepared during the first SMI Project. The project was
appraised in February 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. from
August 17-21, 1981. The Borrower's delegation was led by Mr. C. Chanmugam,
Deupty Secretary of the Treasury, Ministry of Finance and Planning. A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 3480-CE, dated September 14, 1981) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Annex III presents a
timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of
the Credit.
Project Objectives and Scope
34.       The objectives of the proposed project are to increase output, employ-
ment, efficiency and exports of viable small and medium industries. To meet
these objectives, the project is designed to improve SMIs' access to term
credit by providing refinance to the PCIs, and by strengthening staff capabil-
ities in appraisal and supervision of SMI subprojects. Public and private
technical and commercial services to SMIs would be improved. Modifications
in the tariff system and export incentives are expected to accelerate growth
in output and exports in promising light industrial products.
35.      The Second SMI Project would consist of two major components:
(a)  Term loans to SMIs.  The SMI Fund of the NDB would provide
*                   partial refinance of eligible SMI subloans made by the parti-
cipating credit institutions. In addition to funding sub-
loans, the project would involve institution building of
NDB and the PCIs, through provisions for increased staffing,
funding of training and consultancy, and improvements in SMI
credit guarantee coverage and procedures; and
(b) Technical and marketing services. IDB's promotion and exten-
sion programs would be strengthened with improved organization,
and financing for: coaching of regional extension officers,
an SMI consultancy fund to tap local private expertise, and
expansion of engineering service facilities. The EDB would
be supported in its program of export promotion and supply



- 12 -
development in key light industrial product lines, through
practical consultancy and training, sales trips, policy
studies and pilot projects; exporters and manufacturers
would be major participants in implementing these elements.
A small amount of funding would be provided for the expan-
sion of successful subsector schemes launched under the
first and Second SMI Projects.
36.       The project would be national in scope (Map No. IBRD 15823).  While
no allocations by subsector would be made for the credit component, agroindus-
tries, light engineering and building materials are expected to remain the
major product groups. With technical services under the first SMI Project
becoming operational, lending to rubber products, handloom and subcontracting
firms is expected to increase. IDB would continue its subsector services to
SMIs and would strengthen extension at the regional level. The export promo-
tion and supply development programs of EDB would focus on promising light
industrial enterprises, regardless of size.
Credit and Credit Institutions
37.       Under the Second SMI Project, the SMI Fund of NDB would refinance
eligible term loans to SMIs by the participating credit institutions. The
PCIs would have inducements to lend on the basis of subproject viability
rather than collateral, with the proposed project providing: refinance
to the PCIs on attractive terms; training in SMI subproject appraisal; and
effective credit guarantee coverage. Staff of the SMI Fund, increased to
19 professionals, would: review the PCIs' project appraisals and approve
refinance; supervise SMI operations of the PCIs; perform subsector analysis;
provide SMI training to the banks; and consolidate reporting to the Associa-
tion. As a condition of credit effectiveness, modifications, satisfactory
to the Association, in organization, staffing and statement of policies and
operating procedures, of the SMI Fund would be made (Section 6.01(a), draft
DCA). NDB would apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Associa-
tion in subproject review (Section 3.07(a), draft DCA) and would refinance
loans on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.07(b)
and Schedule 3, draft DCA).
38.       The structure of the refinancing rates would provide higher margins
to PCIs for lending to smaller SMIs, enabling the PCIs to cover proportionally
higher lending costs; the PCIs would receive spreads of 5% for subloans of up
to Rs 500,000 and 4% for subloans of Rs 500,000 to Rs 2,000,000, the maximum
eligible subloan size (Para D2, Schedule 3, draft DCA). Although other insti-
tutions also could be eligible, subject to agreement by the Government, NDB
and the Association, the PCIs are expected to continue to be the two public
commercial banks (People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon), the two local privately
controlled commercial banks (Hatton National Bank and Commercial Bank of
Ceylon) and the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon. New participation
agreements would be needed to: reflect the increase in the maximum subloan
size and in the interest rates; specify increased SMI staffing requirements;
and contain policy statements on SMI lending by each PCI. The participation
agreements would specify the responsibilities of the PCIs and the SMI Fund;
terms, conditions, and eligibility criteria; minimum staffing requirements;



- 13 -
and policies to be followed in SMI lending.  It would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that at least two PCIs had signed participation agreements
(Sections 3.09 and 6.01(d), draft DCA).
39)       To encourage the credit institutions to re-uce ,-eiiance on collateral
in SNIP lending, the Central Bank would continue to provide partial credPit gua-
rantee coverage. The SMI Credit Guarantee Scheme would cover all SMI sublo&ar-
refinanced under the proposed project, with coverage increased to the lower
of 60% of the subloan amount or Rs 800,000. Guarantee premia, which would be
taken from the PCIs' spread, would be 1% of the guaranteed amount. Modifica-
tions in the existing scheme would be required to streamline procedures and
reflect the increased size of eligible SMI subloans.  These changes would be
made, satisfactory to the Association, as a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(b), draft DCA).
40.       Over 100 officers and 30 -middle managers of the PCIs -were trairied
in SMI appraisal and supervision prior to implementing the first Project, and
NDB and the PCIs have provided training to over 80 additional SMI staff during
implementation. About 150 officers are working full time on SMI lending from
the head office SMI units and key branches. This SMI staffing has proved in-
sufficient to appraise and supervise the larger than expected volume of SMI
lending activity under the first SMI Project. As a condition of its partici-
pation in the Second SMI Project, each PCI would increase the trained SNI
staff by an agreed number. The training units of the SMI Fund of NDB and the
PCIs would provide continuous training.
41.       The first SMI Project included finance for technical assistance to
NDB. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) and
an advisor assisted in establishing procedures and systems for NDB's opera-
tions in direct loans for larger industrial borrowers. The credit also funded
an advisor and training to help establish SMI Fund operations. The proposed
project would fund consultancy to continue this institutional assistance from
ICICI (US$90,000); assist in the SMI Fund's subsector analysis (US$50,000);
and provide coaching to SMI Fund staff in appraisal and supervision (US$60,000).
The project also would finance consultancy for PCIs interested in improving
management information systems (US$60,000) and would fund training of 30 to
35 key officers of the SMI Fund and PCIs (US$70,000).
Technical and Marketing Services
42.       Under the proposed Second SMI Project, IDB would continue to build
its technical and managerial services for SMIs. As a complement to the
subsector-specific programs being implemented under the first Project, the
Second SMI Project would concentrate on strengthening IDB's general extension
services at the regional level by: developing more attractive career paths
for extension officers; consolidating field services at the regional level;
and providing intensive coaching of extension officers. The proposed project
would finance about five manyears of coaching by extension specialists. With
this practical training, IDB's regional extension officers would be in a better
position to assess the problems of their SMI clients, and to help resolve their
simpler management difficulties, More trained and experienced consultants are
needed to tackle some special technical problems, but IDB expects to continue



- 14 -
facing difficulties in attracting and retaining a suitable number of experi-
enced technical staff, since they have good options in the growing private
sector. Therefore, under the proposed Second SMI Project, IDB would establish
an SMI consultancy fund, to hire local private consultants to help address the
technical problems of IDB clients. Funding would be provided for about 200
manmonths of local consultancy to assist about 400 firms. A Statement of
Policies and Operating Procedures for this SMI Consultancy Fund has been rati-
fied by IDB's Board of Directors. Prior to disbursements for the IDB component,
agreed modifications in policies, organization and personnel management would
be made and at least three coaches for the regional offices would be hired;
(Schedule 1, para 4(b), draft DCA).  The proposed Second SMI Project also
would fund the second phase in the expansion of IDB's engineering service
facilities. Phase I is being implemented under the first Project; disburse-
ments for Phase II would be made only once the initial phase is satisfactorily
completed (Schedule 1, para 4(b) (ii), draft DCA).
43.       The Second SMI Project also would support EDB in export promotion
and related supply development in selected product lines. The following pro-
ducts, for which market prospects and comparative advantages exist, would
receive priority attention: rubber, wood, handloom, coir and marine products;
gems and jewelry; and light engineering goods. Ancillary firms providing
components or back-up facilities to export-oriented enterprises also would
receive attention, as would key agrobusinesses including fruits and vegetables,
cut flowers and plants, spices and essences. EDB would provide services to
exporters and manufacturers in these lines in adapting products, improving
quality and expanding the supply base, in response to concrete market opportun-
ities. Eligible expenditures within this program would be: practical consul-
tancy; pilot projects; training and service facilities; sales and exposure
trips; and advisory services to assist in improving export policies and proce-
dures. The Board of Directors of EDB has ratified a Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures for this program. Prior to disbursements for this compo-
nent, EDB would finalize a year one (1982) action program, satisfactory to the
Association (Schedule 1, para 4(b)(iii), draft DCA). IDB and EDB would send
to the Association draft annual action programs for concurrence by November 1
of the previous year. (Section 3.11(a), draft DCA).
Policy Modifications
44.       The Second SMI Project would encompass work related to the tariff
return and export incentives to reflect value added.  The Government would,
by June 30, 1982, review the effective protection study (para 25) with a view
to developing a phased action program based upon this review (Section 4.03,
draft DCA). The EDB would,by June 30, 1982, submit to the Association, for
its review and comment, a report analyzing the appropriateness of using effec-
tive protection rates to calculate value added under its Export Expansion
Scheme (Section 4.04, draft DCA).
Implementation
45.       The implementing agencies would carry out their specific activities
and responsibilities, within the framework of objectives, guidelines and pro-
cedures agreed between the Government and IDA under the Credit and Subsidiary
Loan Agreements. The proposed project includes provisions to ensure that the



- 15 -
PCIs retain full responsibility for all SMI lending (Section 3.02(d), draft
DCA). The SMI Coordinating Committee chaired by the Additional Secretary,
Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affairs, and consisting of representa-
tives of the implementing agencies and the private sector, has met about once
a month during implementatior of the first Project. Under the proposed pro-
ject, a representative of the EDB would join the SMI Coordinating Committee.
The Coordinating Committee would continue to review quarterly reports prepared
by the implementing agencies, examine operational problems and make recommenda-
tions on improving implementation (Section 3.02(a), draft DCA). By June 30,
1982, IDA and the implementing agencies would conduct a joint review to deter-
mine which subsector development schemes implemented under the first and Second
SMI Projects have been successful and require funds for expansion (Section 3.10,
draft DCA).
Monitoring and Evaluation
46.       Each implementing agency would submit quarterly progress reports to
NDB; NDB would submit these and NDB's own quarterly reports to IDA not later
than 45 days after the end of each quarter (Section 3.11(b), draft DCA). The
review section of the SMI Fund would continue to monitor the quality of the
PCIs' appraisals; the supervision section would make field visits to monitor
the SMI lending operations of the PCIs; and the subsector analysis section
would use project data and market information to develop norms and review the
economic impact of subprojects. The SMI Fund would review in detail the PCIs'
appraisals of subloans of over Rs 50,000. In addition to reviewing quarterly
reports and conducting regular supervision, the Association would review pro-
ject appraisals and the SMI Fund report for subloans in excess of Rs 1,000,000,
before authorizing disbursements.
Costs and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at US$52.5 million equivalent,
including roughly US$5.0 million in taxes and duties. The project incorporates
US$50.0 million equivalent for investment in SMIs and US$2.5 million for tech-
nical and marketing services. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$18.4 million or about 35% of the total project cost; the proposed IDA credit
of US$30 million equivalent would finance the full foreign exchange cost of
the project and about US$11.6 million equivalent of the local costs. Price
contingencies were calculated on the following basis: 23% in 1981, 17% in
1982, 14% in 1983, 12% in 1984 and 10% in 1985.
48.       The US$28.0 million subloan component of the proposed Credit would
be onlent by the Government to NDB via a subsidiary loan agreement for the
account of the SMI Fund on the following terms: (i) loan denominated in Sri
Lanka Rupees, with Government bearing the foreign exchange risk; (ii) initial
interest of 11% per annum; (iii) fixed amortization schedule of 14 years,
including 4 years of grace (Para A of Schedule 3, draft DCA). The SMI Fund
would provide refinancing to credit institutions for eligible SMI subloans
on the following terms: (i) refinancing for up to 80% of loan amount; (ii)
initial interest per annum of 13% for loans of up to Rs 500,000 and 14% for



- 16 -
loans of Rs 500,000 to Rs 2 million; (iii) maturity for a maximum of 10 years,
including 2 years of grace (Para B of Schedule 3, draft DCA). The credit
institutions would make subloans to eligible SMIs on the following terms:
(i) maximum subproject size of Rs 4 million excluding permanent working capital;
(ii) maximum subloan size of Rs 2 million including permanent working capital;
(iii) initial interest of 18% per annum with review of the interest rate every
six months, and automatic revision if commercial bank rates on term loans to
large industrial borrowers change; (iv) up to 10 years maturity, with grace
periods of 3 months to 2 years; and (v) sponsors' equity contribution of at
least 20% of sub-project amount (Paras C and D of Schedule 3, draft DCA). In
the event that the final onlending rate to SMIs changes, the SMI Fund of NDB
spread would remain at least 2% to 3% and the PCIs' spreads at least 4% to 5%
depending upon subloan size (Para D2, Schedule 3, draft DCA). The remaining
US$2.0 million of the Credit would finance technical services component of the
proposed project.
49.       Commercial bank lending rates increased during 1979-80, reflecting
accelerated inflation. Interest rates to prime industrial borrowers increased
from 15% in late 1979 to 18%-19% at the time of negotiations. NDB and DFCC
have kept their rates at 17%.  Inflation during 1980, using the GDP deflator,
averaged 24%. The Government has taken several measures to curb inflation,
cutting or deferring expenditures on public development projects and reducing
spending by public corporations. Provided continued measures are taken, infla-
tion could decline over the next three years to an average of 16%-17%. Initial
interest rates for SMI term loans would be set at 18%, with rates reviewed
regularly and revised automatically if prime industrial rates change. Any
modifications in the onlending rates would affect only new subloans.
Procurement
50.       Through the participation agreements with the credit institutions,
NDB would ensure that: (i) goods and services procured locally for projects
requesting refinance under the SMI Fund be purchased at reasonable and com-
petitive prices, and (ii) the contracts for goods procured outside of Sri
Lanka and estimated to cost US$10,000 or more would be let through interna-
tional shopping procedures on the basis of at least three price quotations
(Section 2.03(a), draft DCA). The SMI Fund and IDA supervision missions would
continue to review these procedures, which have been satisfactory under the
first Project. Procurement of equipment, vehicles, materials and consultants
for the technical services component would be in accordance with Government
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association.
Authorization and Disbursement
51.       Disbursements would be made for:  (i) 100% of the portion of the
loan amounts refinanced by the SMI Fund; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures ex-factory, or 80% of other local expenditures
for equipment, vehicles, and materials for the technical services component;
and (iii) 100% of total expenditures for consultants, technical services
and training. Disbursements under (i) would be made against statements of
expenditure for any subloan with a refinanced amount not exceeding US$40,000.
The records of expenditures made on account, wherein withdrawals are requested
on the basis of these statements of expenditure, would be retained until one
year after the closing date of the IDA Credit. All other disbursements would



- 17 -
be made against full documentation. Prior to submitting the relevant disburse-
ment requests, the Government would submit for review and authorization by the
Association: (i) a summary description of each subproject to be refinanced
Lmder the SMI Fund; and (ii) a summary description of expenditures to be
tinanced and thelr intended uses in the technical services component.
52.       Accounts and Auditing.  An annual statement of accounts for NDB
including the SMI Fund, would be audited by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka
or a designated private firm, which would submit a report in a form satis-
factory to IDA not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year;
project accounts of each implementing agency also would be audited (Section
4.01(c), draft DCA). The annual report of the auditors would include a sepa-
rate opinion with respect to expenditures and relevant withdrawals made from
the Credit on the basis of statements of expenditure.
53.       Bridge Financing.  Full commitment by NDB of the US$12 million
subloan component of the first Project is expected by October 1981. NDB
would provide temporary bridge funding to cover SMI refinancing require-
ments for subloans under the proposed project between Credit signing and
effectiveness.
Benefits and Justification
54.       The proposed project addresses key constraints to more rapid
development of SMIs. It provides term credit to over 2,000 new and existing
enterprises, meeting a sizeable portion of the financing gap for this sector
and further strengthening SMI term lending operations of the participating
credit institutions. The subprojects financed are expected to result in
about 23,000 new jobs, with incremental fixed investments (including buildings
but excluding land) per job of about US$1,600. The average subloan size is
expected to be about Rs 300,000 (US$15,000), about one and a half times the
average of approved subloans under the first SMI Project.
55.       Improvements in IDB's regional extension programs are expected to
result in management assistance to roughly 1,500 SMIs over the three year
commitment period. The impact of these services on productivity, sales, and
employment would be monitored. The SMI consultancy fund would ensure that
local private sector expertise would be used in addressing technical problems
of about 400 to 500 SMIs in areas requiring specialized skills. Thus, the
1SMI consultancy fund would encourage establishment of private sector firms
specializing in consultancy to SMI5 The export and product development
programs of the EDB would be expected to result in increased, diversified
exports and growth in value added among key light industrial products. The
proposed project would help exporters and manufacturers upgrade skills,
increase quality control, improve commercial organization of the decentral-
ized production base, and promote exports.
Risks
56.       The success of the lending component would depend on the effective
operation of the SMI Fund. Satisfactory policies, procedures and standards
have been tried and established. The key would be NDB's ability to attract



- 18 -
qualified staff for expanded refinance operations, while increasing attention
to monitoring and supervision of SMI operations of the PCIs. NDB already has
hired most of the needed staff and this problem would be addressed by: (a)
requiring a minimum number of trained SMI lending staff as a condition of
credit effectiveness; and (b) providing for on-the-job training and consul-
tancy. A further risk is that the credit institutions, particularly the
public banks, may be unable to fulfill their staffing commitments. Under the
proposed project, placement of a minimum number of trained staff would be a
condition of participation in the project. Each PCI would need to reaffirm
its commitment and allocate additional SMI staff as required. A risk asso-
ciated with the IDB component is that the intensive field-level coaching might
not be effective due to inadequate qualifications and motivation of extension
staff. However, substantial modifications in IDB's salary structures, promo-
tional policies and field organization would be in place before this coaching
begins. This should help IDB attract, retain, motivate and manage qualified
extension officers. The Second SMI Project would build on organizational
arrangements and capabilities developed under the first Project. However,
continued improvements would be needed in the services provided by the parti-
cipating institutions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation of the Commit-
tee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the Credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of credit effectiveness include: (i) modification
of policies and operating procedures, organizational structure and staffing of
the SMI Fund of NDB satisfactory to the Association (para 37); (ii) signing of
a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and NDB for the use of the
funds for the lending component; (iii) signing of participation agreements with
at least two participating credit institutions for access to the SMI Fund (para
38); and (iv) modification of the Credit Guarantee Scheme (para 39).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 23, 1981



- 19 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
TOTAL             65.6                                           MOST RECENT     LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      25.8                   1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       60.0       100.0            230.0            232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          114.4       143.3            140.2            499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       9889.2     12514.0          14542.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      17.9        21.9             26.1             17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  21.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    31.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                             2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           150.8       190.8            221.7            153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         507.0       518.0            552.9            360.3                 2382.8
POPULATlON AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              42.1        41.9             36.9             37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                              54.3        54.5             59.0             59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        3.6         3.6              4.1              3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.5         2.4              1.7              2.1                    2.3
URBAN                                   4.7         4.4              3.6              3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          35.5        29.7             27.6             27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           9.1         6.8              7.4             10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.5         2.3              1.8              2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..        55.3            113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..         8.2             41.0             20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0       103.0            140.0            107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        97.0       108.0             96.0             98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               44.0        47.0             43.0             56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            13.0        13.0              7.0             14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           5.8         4.8              3.4             14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT bIRTH (YEARS)         62.0        63.5             65.6             57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                55.0        51.0             49.0             89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..        21.0             20.0             30.1                   45.9
URBAN                                    ..        46.0             45.0             65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                    ..        14.0             13.0             20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..        64.0             59.0             17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                    ..        76.0             68.0             71.0                   71.0
RURAL                                    ..        61.0             55.0              4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               4493.1      6610.7           6751.2           3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4150.0      2258.0           2055.0           6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 319.0       322.0            342.0           1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                                    ..       217.6            241.1            322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                    ..       569.6            584.2           5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..        56.5             51.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   5.4/c       5.8
URBAN                                   6.3/c       6.3
RURAL                                   5.27        5.5.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   2.0/c       2.5
URBAN                                   2.17E       2.7
RURAL                                   2.0/c       2.5               ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   7.5/c       9.0               ..
URBAN                                  35.9/c      34.5               ..
RURAL                                   2.3/c       3.0               ..



-20 -NX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LANKA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV,ERACES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT      LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTLMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      95.0        99.0             94.0/6            85.9                   99.8
MALE                     100.0        104.0            98.0/d            94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                    90.0         94.0            90. 0/d           64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                      27.0        47.0             52.0              38.0/aa                53.5
MALE                      38.0         46.0            63.0              34.6/aa                 58.4
FEMALE                    16.0        48.0             40.0              18.07i.                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (C OF SECONDARY)          ..         1.0              1.0               3.8                   21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                31.0           ..             32.0              32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                                ..           ..               ..              19.9                   31.7
ADULT LITEKACY RATE (PERCENT)             75.0 /e     77.6             85.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              8.0          7.0              6.8               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                              35.8        40.0             71.2              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                ..          ..               ..               3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       36.0        48.9               *-              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        3.0           ..             4.7               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          3390.9       4186.9           5011.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                       22.6         23.7             24.4              29.3                   37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   56.3        55.1             54.3              69.8                   50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                      13.5        14.4             14.1              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     34.3        33.5             34.5              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                      50.8        49.1             50.7              51.5                   49.8
FE4MALE                                   16.2        16.5             17.3              23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.3         1.4              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         26.4        18.2             18.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       52.1         43.4             42.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         4.5          7.5              7.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         13.7        19.2             19.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    ..           ..               ..             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..               ..             111.6                  193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..              ..                ..                   249.8
RURAL                                    ..           ..              ..                ..                   234.3                          4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UKBAN                                    ..           ..               ..              41.7                   21.2
KURAL                                    ..           ..               ..              51.7                   32.2                          
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
ib   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963;  /d Due to changes in duration of levels in education, the ratios are not strictly comparable
over time; /e 1962.
May, 1981



-21-                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3
N-os ...     oehtedt   sadoef                 tavs~asal   tde   i  int  ciardabUe o-trt-art  strIt  lseheco-d-itObe-                                     a  et.b,res
chain, aefal t  deseNtsotiso  ot  agnisva,  ndicte. strod- a--teata tar  eea-- a -jo    itOsr -ver  h.,  i,--vee-
Ohs   fceeoa0r  oncaill  seotoanooen   rtates jeenoorsooedi2   atteorarocvso achreaer-coseatcieseot-evei-riLdv
of ohi. cotary evp   a  taisZo4o  dvi Thrpvi--g-ero  stv                        _"tids htone Ovrthtt-l.   ev    IasIve    t               - r" ~hal O-t-I va-
eii-vioaaditia.   roeoseai  aaytaeteonrasac   nvase    site    etbet  oesio  iotdiae    eLserteone
eajoory ofrbs oaneesa ingeer,  tre  dare Leehes i               IIteeeC     iioehncec       -   e   or  soith c7ttor  vida0   tcanrh teNd
'Perh -  oraisortaceeraaeeicteli  la.d tre  -ed  -oedaeibca,sdroeidvddi   ce   iteot    ytre   oytdtd
mised  y enstoeeeeinccatedas  oed Coot ashos  7NO-O0 bet)   Ou0o eotlteoeeoryaIoniyeefd by e yhoeo-o-                                                        enb
iNi, adTrOi1 tii                                                                                     i0tloeean,oeeoeat,`t4ao.refcoyr                                    -eacoe
d  Lset dv Ld-oL  a limIed icie  of  rditeal dahbi -.   e  arasia
ani                         --ie,paelt,eedL roe a,t bydr-, otie1 0   etirtee-                       aetra    es.ebr.te   rreeh-sbeh    etadia   ndeseoc
"Irtttyl he hheiar f  -Ieieohe           Pi-e Cayinar li6y, bi70, and h 97rce   dypeistlead tenetrol  ad  beCiedid Osoedstorii
meal1 eeloe,rid-Leer (thtea-AI - he~ nd Jey I  lti6  toO0. -rd 1979                            007101C
date.                                                               retenreer dIce ef teenebold C~~~~~~_Lj~d   oredleye  tor todt  _"sh  ooa_, etd ectet -
a oicaeia   961, igNtL. an  iCN  nc                                                     lb,ihr-tehoirdo  eceactl ,y
WU- teeo    Caaiiyoitoeaebsdo  o                                          a f p.riCesya etesh il.I rIao~, rod  -arn  oecpird  ta i -nirs
ri ife . .ansaio  at bireto trteeo  foe eric  cov-nc'a hin  -eic- te-                    A-CId 50 hicedrioeoteeeie   ohiil-braeabrsr   aa 
bana, oc.d fanIa aid a          I eaccee  rththei  asI  0.0  eo      The yss                    eoaeoo  darTtei  rlebI  t it,ebt            LIt hr Iee   qrasesca  as
neseta for  -eaietmt  sled ban  tir.. 1-leri   aart   droihe  in                                fsci  ecbar. IP ti.teh   aiocycce
each teosey Ia ethenoasigeed te  ef oheas eboe  -ebtenoc    f  -nceltry                    fittoTiOh
eod tarsjtiiy icesI isde  y_eacIrtl   pvrnee..oisr  hooirn   re
ohr bfoet rac.P  efaal.- 0  eiC Oeaetcae  ee   loshaenosaa-                                         relna 1atl vga  t  i  yV-oo  eeY              a  Cevoy E               -caP-ti-n
roiornraaer. Otishe obhan  coi_y efca  Caetc   oe   eir   rybeyebetaeprtser.tnct   rLe    hiidsse card i-1l
lie  cstne   -i ln   nf-a1 tar =pcrd-eio- cav, aCe  se  gn.i..te                                   --er  bvi  djoe tad for itideref-t    fh   nf peeareesrin fe
ci  - cat rpitacee~ Talf 5     "atly.  _h eaecopylreseastea  itru   nith totriet  n.rlTae eoahee   c  e-cd lii Paentt
relctd- ths basis et tO  resoe    Ibcceer eo  the,rolse                                     efec  -ns  atoel  ace trio- oo abn   e  ecstsCCi                   .
do Lat  yree 2100, and rhn tac  ad detll- a L feoot Lilly race he ceybet_                      8soeed-e -ohoe  -o l  o   sa tnt  - hom-ard as ebs-l  ecedary
bryr teoah.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~adeo.ctitreaqeerere   isaid  fo-  y-ae  cf Lpper-d yelcarpt Iesecha
Osara ie-iir  -er-i-rr  is cr-oa   - ito  oooe  aahtc y--                    le- er                  rr_ds  e _ee.  erses,  rra  e  Irrare I'l                siLtereoes Con rnrt
tier bat haee reactri.                                                            asaelhy of 11 so t---O fyears--  ag;  ocaseeeVe -ooss- ie   aaa
edly; 19io, 19th sri boOt d-s5c.--b -avirseaeh                                                                          -  eian,ad ee-edrry-fen-I  -eda-ssneia
yevtric  a  Sirtaevr              Ch,ip    Iodree  (i-It y-aos,  -rk-g-aga  (15j                p,,emey cad  --eCar  ioaL edieideo by  -obera If esabe-  is~ rhe
eti-er; 1900, 19707  aol if  lat,                                                                  dai_iaitodt    tetts1-horeaiefblonaeeatroe
PCOlaeIio __Gerab ortre inrsh    ol  -hos  grn -h  -are  of ce-I aid-                                 asaIpe...errgad  onasto  l   eaO aae   0yeses  -id  _n-
bee 1yyeoren  Lnn 1050-60, 1Ok0-70, a-d l900-70.
ie lee  e  19Sf-Cf. 19Ou-ti, sid Ido-79.                                                                                                   P-sec   ei  erirsidaetcoi -Pasgge  ear  -spihee easer
rds Ste-h isstre 4-vad)  -               1votlaiC- bec-ha e- ite-ord at md-yea-cc I                      eal I'llees iha  a'S,b  y.s..p...ie   ebeae  ba-esesa
oo.ico,1960, 1900, and 5979 dar,                                                          1,aiitttaoeoahbiieiash,                       ~t,ld.   -
IcaSlee ~Poreti torr -oc.d     -b-r va   dreths pe caoad   of11 nn-yc                          hedi Nsi_sheara  ee  Ihasr  erelrLn  yali syeho.                  cs.t    fa -adv
eh,olro-i  hir,  100-0, sediOd dfera .                                                           bea-asabe-Iaa  pbtrra   hee                -di          h.risrs   a-cieda  as-
teties ter   .oce asia-eacat         eerer  t      .,agoIaciea  cr11111 hear is                  MiastdrcenaIa rIcr,              C   n   o  er    a   elecee   5ctI
te   .ca   eedcrn   cndi  h                    Laehss  0creee7n Ia-roofefe                  ec   a  nitc          ha  arca  y.a.e..            o   atCyrbl   te
cit ir  rais; vetfly fnn- yoo anaagna  adta5ae dii,b-Nf,  a   99               mT r  revece-r.teseehrs   fcei.~)flb.d.t
bonitoresiete-Aeceeoas.hetaatboovede) -veoteleteebe ef ceaOsca        lT0Biaioer(pyv--     ro- ceyyp e1thio)- 'Ltdre_rlere.fe  breedsa-            r
oC  drc- ldr b-t ireo&as order4 eonnrce  ef naheifeltyh-       larr ie- orte.                                   "Iea   atrysterer   naetn    eide   niesdf   een
ane e   e d Prdeie ArS eri  iIiC-Ol-b001  .-ldat   pie1 oarhoc erel                         Cceohratbriassroteiarr  estce    nse  abe
Palealoaee.       yodns   -ieraab- d-6-65i 0, -d   sodti            o   em ierci ha-erp-brc  1c960sr19t0 -d17 draetelfj   chn  eca,  sld
Iery  ot-hrso  ear fedeyrheeohcl I ..I II                   nc   taire                         cemieleg oepLtso    a'Lbal  aes.t-         stti Le earhtcy choarha  ace
r5~ Ocy.  oartebtescpoereaonveesa deseeto eCdacatoC-  -ioslees                 eercCeerablsp                                            970m INOO19d790d dsra
he...ehellata-le  theIs65,1i970, a-  1007 deta.                                                1970 ecO  197N dcts,
re"Ir  Or-t  Ievll co   cit  eco   e   a)- yc-tlr  --iee  of oscoo                             fchiero   ae  rrdi)-esl.e-,ar   eaa-eeipeiie
ear  _ort  of fend rae day.  'Pen coyPe of food Le defteed ae ehr.-   be-                      eeiiyrticeasooda  re.sac   cUtmisibr  rc
q- -canse     _ her all   1, r Ir c  e-ibidabe   by USDA pceide~ Per edeisc                    rsbeer  o   e            aIa sod f-sat  pepoetneiL.  el  ages -         pcinl'
aionocmyd  groas ef rooIl Pr__i  P., drLy aid 20tS grams n         ei at so             1960, Itt, erd l97t dea,.  Ph-e   r  beden00 Q               stintrairecessat
eaf csi.C  ehach 1t gram  sceold he  --It  cer           Thasi  -ad-                   etle-cieggsse   tshoac  C  naroiin,edInag elms  -rse                          A
ard -c ieetheebeer. ef 7inrsLeClPro-o  aed 23re-sf                                        I_voe-i-aTrncr   eacev- --oer
a.I_,m   __c .  _en     a _aeesau   fle  iba oeed, y,rynsed by rho in iteb 'Phld             foreb   cerde    rt   - RaLie of p                    -tehi   td- 15 aid 61 aedra
"e,dI'd 71  ioceey       Ne-Ct, iNOL red 1977 da-.                                              crteth.ne-t lsrr fence
recrheeenl  trla  rtonna a -          ta-bohe  salef food ie-
tOdy  eneaeaai  ad poasoI is ga-sye  day; 1061-60, lOll seN107  tan,                      M _ lifhfihTOi
Lbatd_iecie   doctr   aa(rdeeeo( -lna  d-etb  pec  --ood in                                      peo eioefadrloats ne-em    -tei   ivda   cr          &ei -eeio-d by ricret
roet  vr  derinidfltre  lifi othee; 1960. 190ed 197da,oeerbis
hat hrssooi   ta  C                   A-os -iora   tomha  ret 7e-s ef tie ef ice                 'Piery Taoltvho  aaii5assaeoC precsreeeere    osyhis
ce  o -rap   ref  fR-   asiL 0f09 dada.                              -nyd aheeld heb asecce -orheisdetbsnoh
of aesoar obtcseollice brcba.tievIa    p-tIly dovo-   l-eo  hA tharicat                                                                       ce  bals  atcb I aeaa
etoseeeNeha'eracr teccaer e  -neoereoop-cern, rcio, nitoaeei- iaN-              -vtrteie-eIy adnesost  dice p1 s  secsler-food rIooerrh  ant
aste  ..ePely iecic -rtrd - ef-ac  _aee_  or  _-trsd hetaro..r-atnAsv                         rcmedbltnFvethraehel(derepii-asaadtrh-
eosc sobye  is  fre  occs-d b-ehilee, server, aid  -Iot-sy aiLtI.                           R.r Ooear.ario  m.IlCe  ieoee  lenI is en-ebbed if snr
feveoim  ec  rceipo-t in-ted  te ee har. 200 sa-ac  f-o  e bo-eay he-rloriaieao   -eco lavenree  of- teLg  -ie sba  areas, -
Or rt toe t  aprd edhaor---comee ae  olf iths dayy  f                tthco    ab             dei
-oto     ae   odi...
itosaoaeteroOtooeO teOteted  oeociio-otae          -aros   end noet
inareoN  roIc  toal.-ba-  aed eoc1t s..Cbe.           nreniepaia
oecotieo  thcicnceycolo- peplottocs,  cerc  disosl nt-tttir
sbeceiiecIe  cat dhep-ost                  h-b5   ites   esoe.,    hoeeireaCrteoadlialDt  ense
soet  careeece  Ott arachos h eCrc   r  bceofn    eetnodsas                                                               reei   atC          n   frocoooe  'Peeecsar
toe- -                        ~ irsttellaiheec,d FJ-1
-id.d by                                                                           M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~An 1091
Oooai- o r-ae.df Pbseir  Oneoc- cr  teov Isii   yie0   nctlgrC
ehasqaiafadfomsedsaicttelsrctocraobleei,
?tattte  areos:a  eron   rorote  dOoOOe  00oI soe cd nom
rat  ed fmae aadcieooses  rocsce   naes  no  aeoson  nvse



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
SRI LANKA: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OUTPUT IN 1980 BY SECTOR                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
Value Added
$ Million    %                       1970-77        1977-80        1970-30
Agriculture                       1,038    27.6                       2.0             3.5            2.5
Industry a/                       1,116    29.6                       2.1             8.6           4.0
Services                          1,612    42.8                       3.7             7.6           4.9
Total bI                      3,766   100.0                       2.9             6.8           4.0
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ Million
GDP at Market Prices                                 4,130           100.0
Investment                                           1,480            35.8
Gross National Savings                                 675            16.3
Current Account Balance                                805            19.5
Exports of Goods and NFS                             1,295            31.3
Imports of Goods and NFS                             2,211            53.5
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(Rs Million)    % of GDP at Market Prices
1980          1975     1979       1980
Current Receipts c/                 12,927          17.2      23.1      18.9
Current Expenditures d/             14,594          18.3     22.8       21.4
Current Surplus                    -1,667           -1.1       0.2      -2.4
Capital Expenditures e/             12,772           7.3      14.1      18.7
External Assistance                  5,717           3.2       7.2       8.4
a! Manufacturing, mining, construction, and utilities.
b/ GDP at factor cost.
c/ Includes capital revenue.
d/ Includes advance accounts.
e/ Includes net lending.
September 11, 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
COUNTRY DATA - SRI LANKA
MONEY, CREDIT, AND PRICES                       1970      1975       1976      1977      1978      1979      1980
(end of period)                                                          (Rs Million)
Money and Quasi Money                          3,061     4,712      6,251     8,636    10,803   14,957      19,709
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   2,680    2,460       3,725    4,834    4,518    6,703        13,075
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  1,446    3,363       3,919     5,714    8,666   11,853       16,343
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP               22.4      17.8       20.9      24.0      25.3      28.7       28.9
General Price Index (1970 = 100)               100.0    143.3       145.2    147.0    164.8    182.6         230.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                             +5.9      +6.7       +1.3      +1.2    +12.1    +10.8        +26.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  +15.9      +9.4       +51.4    +35.0       -6.5    +48.4       +95.1
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   +0.7      +5.5      +16.5    +45.8    +51.7    +36.8         +37.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1980)
1979      1980
(US$ Million)                                                     $ Million         %
Exports of Goods, NFS                    1,135    1,295                  Tea                                     373         35.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                    1,539    2,211                  Rubber                                  156         14.9
Resource Gap (deficit = -)                -404      -916                 Coconut Products                         45          4.3
Interest Payments (net)                     -9       -12                 All Other Commodities                  471          45.1
Workers' Remittances                          -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -7       -14                        Total                         1,045 a!    100.0
Net Transfers                               48       137
Balance on Current Account                -372      -805
Direct Foreign Investment                   47        43               EXTERNAL DEBT ($ Million) b/
Net MLT Borrowing                          162       247
Disbursements                            225       309                                                    December       December
Amortization                              63        62                                                      1979            1980
Capital Grants                             144       138
Other Capital (net)                        +67      +157                 Total Outstanding                   1,773.3         2,264.9
Change in Reserves (+ = increase)          +48      -220
Total Outstanding
Gross Reserves (end-year)                  626       377                    and Disbursed                    1,091.1         1,327.6
Net Reserves (end-year)                    258        38
DEBT SERVICE RATIO ./ (20)                9.8             9.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING, June 30, 1981 (S Million)
i RD        IDA
1967-71                        End 1976
US$1.00 = Rs 5.93              US$1.00 = Rs 8.83                         Outstanding and Disbursed                          23.7       111.9
Rs 1.00 = USS0.17              Rs 1.00 = US$0.11                         Undisbursed                                           -       249.7
Outstanding, including Undisbursed                7).7       361.6
End 1972                       End 1977
US$1.00 = Rs 6.70              uss1.00 = Rs 15.56
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15              Rs 1.00 = US0.06
End 1973                       End 1978                                Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate (FEEC) tates d/
US$1.00 = Rs 6.75              US$1.00 = Rs 15.51
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15              Rs 1.00 = US$0.06                       1968                       US$1.00= Rs  8.54 (44% FEEC)
1969 to 1971              US$1.00= Rs  9.19 (55% FEEC)
a                    End 1974                        End 1979                                1972 (end)                 US$1.00= Rs 10.38 (55% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 6.69              US$1.00 = Rs 15.45                       1973 (end)                US$1.00= Rs 11.13 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.15              Rs 1.00 = US$0.06                        1974 (end)                US$1.00 = Rs 11.04 (65% FEEC)
1975 (end)                US$1.00= Rs 12.72 (65% FEEC)
End 1975                       End 1980                                 1976 (end)                US$1.00 = Rs 14.57 (65% FEEC)
US$1.00 = Rs 7.71              US$1.00 = Rs 18.00                       1977 (until Nov. 15)    US$1.00 = Rs 13.02 (65% FEEC)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.13              Rs 1.00 = US$0.06
a/  Customs data.
b/ Repayable in foreign currencies and with a maturity over one year.
c/ Ratio of debt service, excluding short-term capital repayments and IMF repurchases to exports of goods
and non-factor services.
d/  The certificates were abolished on November 15, 1977.
South Asia Programs Department
September 11, 1981



- 24 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                          Amount (net of
Credit                                                           cancellations)
No.  Year  Borrower         Purpose                        Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                72.9   66.8
504    1974  Sri Lanka  Dairy Development                            9.0       5.5
666    1976  Sri Lanka  Tank Irrigation Modernization                5.0       2.9
701    1977  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development II               19.0      14.1
709    1977  Sri Lanka  Water Supply                                 9.2        .5
742    1977  Sri Lanka  DFC - Industrial IV                          8.0       1.5
818    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea)              21.0      17.3
819    1978  Sri Lanka  Tree Crop Diversification (Tea)              4.5       1.2
891    1979  Sri Lanka  Kurunegala Rural Development                20.0      16.7
900    1979  Sri Lanka  Road Maintenance                            16.5      15.9
931    1979  Sri Lanka  Agricultural Extension and
Adaptive Research                       15.5      14.5
942    1979  Sri Lanka  Small and Medium Industries                 16.0      11.2
979    1980  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Technical
Assistance                                3.0      2.7
994    1980  Sri Lanka  Road Passenger Transport                    53.0      50.3
1017   1980  Sri Lanka  Rubber Rehabilitation                       16.0      15.8
1020   1980  Sri Lanka  Telecommunications                          30.0      30.0
1041   1980  Sri Lanka  Second Water Supply                         30.0      30.0
1048   1980  Sri Lanka  Sixth Power                                 19.5      19.5
1079   1981  Sri Lanka  Second Rural Development                    33.5      33.5
1130   1981  Sri Lanka  Construction Industry Project               13.5      13.5
1160   1981  Sri Lanka  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation /a    30.0          30.0
1981  Sri Lanka  Mahaweli Ganga Development                  90.0     90.0
Project III /b
Total,                                                       72.9  529.0    416.6
of which has been repaid                                   43.2    0.4
Total now outstanding                                        29.7  528.6
Amount sold,                              3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                          29.7    361.6
/a   Not yet effective.      /b   Not yet signed.
7&   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
Year        Obligor                Type of Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1970     Pearl Textile               Textiles                  2.50   0.75      3.25
1977/80  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -      0.15     0.15
1978/81  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       7.00    -        7.00
1979     Cyntex                      Textiles                  3.15   0.53      3.68
1979     Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag         0.89   0.10       .99
1980     LOLC                        Leasing                    -     0.26      0.26
1981     Taj Lanka Hotels                                     17.30    .70    18.00
Total Gross Commitments                        30.84   2.49    33.33
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                   12.93    .75    13.67
Total Commitments now held by IFC              17.91   1.74    19.66



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Project focus has been shifted from the provision of credit for
cattle purchase and on-farm development to the establishment of Dairy Producer
Associations along the lines of the successful Anand pattern in India.  The
closing date was extended by one year to permit Credit proceeds to be used to
finance the feasibility study for a proposed milk processing plant near Kandy.
The extension was also intended to provide IDA with the opportunity to con-
tinue its dialogue with the Government on the milk price/subsidy issue. The
consultant's report recommended a plant costing about US$16.0 million, which
the Government considers too large. In view of this, the overall poor per-
formance of the project, and lack of progress on milk price/subsidy issue,
it has been decided not to extend the present closing date.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Excellent progress has been made on the progress of the project
during the last six months. The staff and equipment provided are capable
and adequate to complete the project by end 1982 if required local funds
are made available by the Government as needed. However, the Government
currently is experiencing a severe shortfall of local funds and most Depart-
mental budgets have been sharply reduced (average of 25-35%). The water
management program initiated during the last maha season went very well (in
fact, the program averted a complete crop failure which would have occurred
due to drought conditions) and farmers' reaction to it was good. A similar
program will be introduced in the other four tanks during the next maha
season.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Project implementation slowed somewhat during the last quarter of
1980 and 1981, due primarily to the shortage of local funds for the project.
Management problems and the turning over of settlement and operation and
maintenance responsibilities to Mahaweli Authority from Mahaweli Development
Board have also contributed to a slowing of work activities. The Government
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 
ANNEX II
Page 3
has agreed to provide sufficient funds in 1981 and 1982 for project imple-
mentation. Despite the above temporary setback, about 85% of the irrigation
works and 40% of irrigation infrastructure have been completed. Also, over
80% of the farms have now been settled. The farmer settlers appear, for the
most part, to be satisfied with their new farms and with the project. The
project is expected to be completed by end-1982.
Cr. No. 709 -  Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977;
Effective Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The Project has made good progress in the procurement of equipment
and materials and in the construction of civil works. The IDA Credit and
the IDA administered CIDA Credit are almost entirely disbursed. Financial
Management of the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) has improved
with WDB now producing the financial information required for management.
WDB's progress in implementing consumer metering is unsatisfactory.  It has
recently taken steps to accelerate the program.
Cr. No. 742 -  Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
DFCC's management problems have improved under the new General
Manager, although problems at the Board of Directors level still persist.
DFCC's capitalization and hence its exposure limits are to be expanded by
means of an increase in its issued share capital from Rs 24 million to Rs
60 million. Credit 742-CE has been fully committed although US$1.5 million
remains to be disbursed before the closing date of December 31, 1981.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million
of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project progress is close to target for field work, in spite of
severe drought in early 1980. Housing and health components are behind
schedule. Consultants have been engaged to help implement these components.
Tea margins have deteriorated due to doubling of tea fertilizer prices. The
Government is expected to take compensatory measures to restore tea margins.
Cr. No, 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million
of July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in field
work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarcation,
and soil conservation work have been completed. About 2,000 settlers have
occupied their houses. Farm planting schedule was disrupted by the severe
and prolonged drought last year. With better conditions this year, all
plantings are expected to be completed by end-1981.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 891 - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million
_f April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is generally on schedule; rural electrification works
have already been completed; and rural roads and education works should be
completed by the end of the year.  Problems on quality of construction of
irrigation and education works were identified at early stage of project imple-
mentation. Supervisory consultants, appointed for the Second Rural Development
Project (Cr. No. 1079), will help improve construction activities. Improve-
ments on the institutional arrangements for agricultural credit and agricul-
tural extension are somewhat slower than expected. High cost overruns were
noted in nearly all project components. Efforts are being made to cut down
cost by introducing farmers' donated labor for some of the activities.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
A general 25% reduction in budget allocations for the present finan-
cial year, followed by a further 10%, has meant a rescheduling of proposed
expenditures for the project. This has been possible without sacrificing
principal project objectives but at the cost of deferring major rehabilitation
work until towards the end of the project. Meantime, institution building and
introduction of improved road maintenance methods continue, and providing it
is possible for Government to provide increased funds for subsequent years,
project completion is expected by March 1984, six months later than planned
at appraisal.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Implementation during the first year has been slower than anticipated
due to delays in procurement and staffing. Recently, however, most full time
staff have been recruited and procurement of vehicles and equipment are underway.
With these, implementation is likely to improve. Civil works are progressing
satisfactorily. Some questions have been raised as to the feasibility of
operating the T&V method of extension in the wet zones dominated by tree crops,
absentee landlord and inadequate infrastructure. These and other implementa-
tion issues are under review by IDA and the Government.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million
of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million,
so as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. About 80% of the



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
total subloan amount has been committed, and disbursements which have acceler-
ated during the last six months, are expected to be completed one year ahead
of schedule.  Most technical and marketing service assistance activities have
been launched.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million of
April 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 7, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The consultants for System C has completed the contract assignment
and departed Sri Lanka. The consultants for the Transbasin Diversion Study
completed the Planning Report for the study in June 1981 and distributed copies
for review. The consultant's work has been somewhat delayed by the lengthy
review of mid-term Planning Report. The effects of this delay, together with
the possible extension of the consultants TOR to study possible transfer of
water to the Gal Oya Basin, may delay the completion of the Final Report by
6-8 weeks and entail from 6-7 MM of added work.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million of April 16,
1980; Effective Date:  October 27, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Consultants have commenced work in the fields of procurement,
industrial engineering and accounting and route planning. Procurement is
lagging about 18 months behind appraisal estimates. No disbursements have
been made except for consultancy services. Because of the present delays,
the original plan of 2,100 bus chassis is unlikely to be accomplished either
in time or within the project costs. Current indications are that only 1,600
new buses will be put into service during the project period.
Cr. No. 1017 - Smallholder Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$16.0 million;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1986.
The project continues to make satisfactory progress. Most of the
proposed institutional reorgarnzation has been completed. The replanting tar-
get for 1981 season is expected to be met. Response by farmers to participate
in replanting under the project has been highly satisfactory. The training
component has been slightly delayed due to difficulty in finding suitable con-
sultants.
.
Cr. No, 1020 - Telecommunications Project; US$30.0 million of June 24, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The Government has already established a separate Telecommunications
Department as part of organizational improvements under the project. The
Government has also increased overseas telephone and telex rates. Procurement
is about two to three months behind schedule but otherwise proceeding well in
accordance with the revised schedule.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1041 - Water Supply and Sewerage II Project; US$30.0 million of
September 24, 1980; Effective Date: February 26, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
WDB has appointed engineering consultants to supervise the construc-
tion of the sewerage works under the Project and the financial consultants for
completion of WDB's organization management and financial study. The project
expenditures have been rephased to reflect the reduction in local resource
allocation during the current year.
Cr. No. 1048 - Sixth Power Project; US$19.5 million of September 24, 1980
Effective Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily; tender documents for
four of the five contracts to be financed by IDA have been advertised. An
agreement for cofinancing in the amount of US$20.0 million was signed between
the Government and Saudi Fund for Development on January 8, 1981. The average
tariff for power supplied by the Ceylon Electricity Board was increased from
about Rs 0.30 to Rs 0.58/kWh on October 1, 1980. The first phase of manage-
ment consultancy has been completed and engineering consultants have been
appointed to design the project components to be financed by the Saudi Fund.
Cr. No. 1079 - Second Rural Development Project; US$33.5 million of February 2,
1981; Effective Date: June 2, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project is making satisfactory progress during the initial period
of project implementation. Supervisory consultants have been appointed and
procurement of essential vehicles and equipment initiated.
Cr. No. 1130 - Construction Industry Project; US$13.5 million of June 1, 1981;
Effective Date: August 19, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Consultants have already been appointed and begun their work. The
Project Director has also been appointed. Satisfactory progress has been
achieved in the preliminary works for project implementation.
Cr. No. 1160 - Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$30.0 million of
July 15, 1981: Not Yet Effective: Closing Date: December 31,
1986.
The project was signed July 15, 1981.
Cr. No.      - Mahaweli Ganga Development Project III; US$90.0 million of
; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project was approved by the Board on June 23, 1981.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
SECOND SMALL AND MEDIUM INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
Prepared during implementation of the first SMI
Project (Credit 942-CE) which became effective
on October 23, 1979.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
SMI task force composed of Government agencies
and public and private credit institutions, with
the assistance of IDA missions.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
December 7, 1980 - January 30, 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 30, 1981
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 21, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
February 1, 1982.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) NDB to apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association in its subproject review and refinance of loans
(para 37);



31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  IDB and EDB to furnish to IDA annual action programs
(para 43);
(c) the Government to carry out a review of the study on
effective protection rates with a view to developing a
phased action program and EDB to furnish to the Associ-
ation a report analyzing the appropriateness of using
effective protection rates to calculate value added under
its export expansion scheme (para 44).
(d) Conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i)   modification in organization, staffing, and state-
ment of policies and procedures for the SMI
F-und (para 37);
(ii)   signing of participation agreements, satisfactory
to IDA, between NDB and at least two participating
credit institutions (para 38);
(iii)   execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satis-
factory to IDA, between the Government and NDB
(para 58); and
(iv)   modifications in the SMI Credit Guarantee Scheme,
satisfactory to IDA (para 39);
(e) Conditions of disbursements:
(i)   for elements to be implemented by IDB, introduction
of a program to improve the organization, personnel
management and performance of IDB and hiring of at
least three extension coaches (para 42);
(ii)   for expansion of the light engineering services
center of IDB, implementation, satisfactory to the
Association, of Phase I under the first SMI Project
(para 42); and
(iii)   for elements to be implemented by EDB, preparation
of a year one action program satisfactory to IDA
(para 43).



IBRD 15B23
Rla--* F i@ Seff br th;   0 0 00000 00000;000090 0jtt   2 0 ti)i $  =  ;          0 0                                        JUNE 19Sl iJUNE 198
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MDU    IND  00USTRIES PROJECT
f   ;'0:X:33  0000  00400   3-t                  .             '\           t X '.'$             V ;0            0:000                                    9t~~~~~~~S LETED OWN
<00    \  00000  00;tt0;0    i   0X i 0 :;S 0 ;00  0 i;$: 00000 j  t . h it  J V  U DIi T RiIt T            B,i U N D A . 
X   0000  0000 000 0; 00 0 ;   0000  :1::tTiff:!   \\   Vuwuriya  ,.    f                       j   ;f a; 0 f:                           E         ]~~~~Pft0\1  NCA L  OU  DARI E
>X000000S;~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ;; Rf\ffffSg2                                             '                      :SIS0aVERSI
Si~~~~~~~~~~~ (:0A Ri00;000009 T;\0H0                                  N 0 0;i 0   'e Mfdwohhy   ,v     i;W ;
a-: ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ... 300                                                                                     60  tg000       0     ;000,Ant  \                   ),t 2  tSt0  
0: 00gQ  00  00   g            \     ~     ~     N          k   ,T  H ,z NA                  itt    Nr
_0;,X;: ~ ~        ~        ~        W, td    T00f E000000000  R, tKrNegl G  '          e       h          ?     E .WTERi
0;S04;00X;f0SSiLysEaV(SfffffffeCH' I..i00                               ,E'    iv                h                       f i             S
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AV SfT E; Rf NVtBOb   Wta1   v  1KnY6     
t   00   0  0   0        2E       S          [  <4;|Ku-gl a i                                                            0          Q i7
i   iiet  ;i0 ;020   :000 i f : 0 omgano    "i         '              * \iUYQrQ t-                  odlur 
X 0 0 00 :0000 0 ~~~~~~C                                           E   N  T    A   >     -tt 1SRjt   tgriigotLil0
o.   < ;    0      0   0 0 0       P  d                     X          O N.g-b.     'K*
S                 :1                                 -'  -X    0:~~-'nV 



