OFFICIAL
DOCUMEINTS      CREDIT NUMBER 1182 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Small and Medium Industries Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1182 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  6           , 1982, between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Small and Medium Industries Project) between the Borrower and the
Associaton dated July 24, 1979;
(b) "NDB" means the National Development Bank of the Bor-
rower established under the National Development Bank Act, No. 2
of 1979;
(c) "SMI Fund" means the Small and Medium Industries Fund
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the
First Agreement;
(d) "IDB" means the Industrial Development Board, a body
established under the Industrial Development Act. No. 36 of
1969 falling within the purview of the Borrower's Ministry of
Industries and Scientific Affairs;


﻿-2-
(e) "EDB" means the Export Development Board, a body estab-
lished under the Export Development Act. No. 40 of 1979 falling
with the purview of the Borrower's Ministry of Trade and Shipping;
(f) "Participating Credit Institution" means the Peoples'
Bank, Bank of Ceylon, Hatton National Bank, Commercial Bank of
Ceylon, Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon and any other
state or privately held credit institution established or oper-
ating under the laws of the Borrower, which has entered into a
participation agreement with NDB pursuant to Section 3.09 of this
Agreemnt;
(g) "small and medium size industry" means any enterprise,
privately or cooperatively owned, with piant and equipment valued
at original cost (excluding land and buildings) of less than
Rs 2,000,000, prior to the granting of a Sub-loan, which is
engaged or intends to engage in manufacturing, mining, construc-
tion, agro-industry, fish processing, handicraft production, or
industrial service activities;
(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Credit Institution in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement and which is or proposed to be
refinanced by the proceeds of the Credit;
(i) "Sub-project" means a sub-project for which a sub-loan
is made or proposed to be made by a Participating Credit Insti-
tution under the Project;
(j) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered
into between the Borrower and NDB pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, as the said agreement may be amended from time to
time with the consent of the Association; and
(k) "Rs" means Rupees, the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement


﻿-3-
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 26,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made): (i) in respect of Sub-loans under Part A of the Project;
and (ii) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-
project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit which shall not exceed the sum of Rs 1,000,000 equivalent
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed for such Sub-project out of the proceeds of the
Credit, provided, however, that no amount shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account unless (A) the Sub-loan shall have
been approved by the Association or (B) the Sub-loan shall be a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(c) When presenting a Sub-loan (other tlan a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association, an applica-
tion in form satisfactory to the Association, together with (i)
a description and appraisal of the Sub-project, including the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the amortization schedule thereto; and (iii) such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(d) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Sub-
project, including the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) the terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods under the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be as follows:


﻿-4-
(a) under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
NDB to establish procedures to ensure that: (1) the goods procured
locally shall be purchased at reasonable and competitive prices,
due account being taken also of other relevant factors such as
time of delivery, quality and reliability of the goods and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor; and
(2) the contracts for goods procured outside the Borrower's
territory and estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or more shall
be awarded through international shopping on the basis of price
quotations from at least three independent suppliers; and
(b) under Parts C, D and E of the Project, goods shall
be procured in accordance with the procurement procedures of
the Borrower satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1992, and ending
August 1, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or
cause the Project to be carried out, with due diligence and


﻿-5-
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and industrial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall:
(a) maintain the Project Coordinating Committee established
under the First Agreement, with such membership and terms of
reference as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
(b) cause NDB to maintain the SMI Fund with (i) an organiza-
tional structure satisfactory to the Association, (ii) staff whose
numbers, qualifications and experience are satisfactory to NDB and
the Association, and (iii) accounting procedures and a statement
of policies and operating procedures satisfactory to the
Association;
(c) cause NDB, from time to time, to provide such additional
capitalization funds to the SMI Fund as may be required to meet
the operational needs of the SMI Fund;
(d) ensure that the Participating Credit Institutions retain
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association for lending to
small and medium size industries.
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shall relend to NDB for the account of SMI Fund,
the equivalent in rupees of such amounts as shall be withdrawn
from the Credit Account under Category (1) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, under a
subsidiary loan agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association including those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Parts B, C, D, and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or
cause to be employed consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods under


﻿-6-
Parts C, D and E of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, overseas training programs, and work
and procurement schedules for Parts B, C, D and E of the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause NDB to:
(a) apply procedures and criteria satisfactory to the
Association in NDB's review of a Sub-project appraisal by a
Participating Credit Institution for a Sub-loan to be refinanced
by the SMI Fund under the Project; and
(b) approve and refinance a Sub-loan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including those set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Small and Medium
Industries Credit Guarantee Scheme of the Borrower's Central Bank
to be maintained in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause NDB to enter into
an agreement with each Participating Credit Institution providing
for its participation in the Project, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. In order to carry out Part E of the Project,
the Borrower shall by June 30, 1982 cause a review to be made of
the progress of Parts B, C and D of the Project, and Parts B, C
and D of the Project under the First Agreement. Such review shall
be made by the appropriate implementing agencies and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall cause:
(a) an annual (January 1 to December 31) work program on the
Project to be prepared and furnished by IDB and EDB respectively,
not later than November 1 of the year prior to the year in which
the work is to be carried out, to the Association for its concur-
rence; and
(b) a quarterly progress report on the Project to be pre-
pared and furnished, not later than forty-five days after the end
of the quarter under review, to the Association for comment.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained: (i) the accounts and financial statements of NDB;


﻿-8-
and (ii) records and separate accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, all expenditures
to refinance a Sub-loan under Category (1) (a) of the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until one year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expen-
diture and shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall:
(i) cause an annual audit satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation to be made of the accounts and financial
statements of NDB and of the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) above for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by independent
and qualified auditors;
(ii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Associ-
ation, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such
year:
(A) certified copies of the accounts and financial
statements of NDB and said separate accounts
for such year as so audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by such auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested,
including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in
Section 4.01 (b) above as to whether the


﻿-9-
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
such other information concerning said separate
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain or
cause to be taken out and maintained with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall by June 30, 1982 review the
tariff study included under Part D (ii) of the Project under the
First Agreement with a view to developing a phased action program
based upon this review.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause EDB to furnish by
June 30, 1982, to the Association for its review and comment, a
report analyzing the appropriateness of using effective protection
rates to calculate value added under its export expansion scheme.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) the National Development Bank Act, No. 2 of 1979, shall
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
so as, in the judgment of the Association, to materially affect
the carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial
condition of NDB;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement without the Association's consent; and


﻿- 10 -
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
me:;t of NDB or SMI Fund, or for the suspension of the operations
of NDB or SMI Fund.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that any events speci-
fied in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) modifications satisfactory to the Association, in the
organization, staffing and statement of policies and operating
procedures of the SMI Fund shall have been made;
(b) the Small Industries Credit Guarantee Scheme of the
Borrower's Central Bank shall have been amended in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, to improve procedures
and to reflect the cligibility criteria for Sub-loans for small
and medium size industries refinanced under the Project.
(c) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been entered
into in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this
Agreement; and
(d) agreements have been entered into by NDB with at least
two Participating Credit Institutions in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.09 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed
and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and NDB, and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation upon the Borrower and NDB.
Section 6.03. The date    ,41 b, /Y9       is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo
Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka
Cable address:                      Telex:
SECMINFIN                          21232
Colombo                            FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 12 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
/S               Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/6
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out, of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Part A of
the Project:
(a) refinanced             22,360,000         100% of SMI
amount not                               refinancing
exceeding
$40,000 equi-
valent per
Sub-loan
(b) refinanced              2,480,000         100% of SMI
amount exceed-                           refinancing
ing $40,000
equivalent per
Sub-loan
(2) Equipment, vehicles            440,000         100% of foreign
and materials                                 expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory);
and 80% of
other local
expenditures
(3) Training, consul-            1,120,000         100%
tants and tech-
nical services
(4) Unallocated                    300,000
TOTAL            26,700,000


﻿- 14
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to October 13, 1981; and
(b) in respect of Ca ,gories (2) and (3) on account of:
(i) expenditures incurred for the financing of Part C
of the Project unless and until the Association has
been furnished with:
A.   a program satisfactory to the Association, to
improve the organization, personnel management
and performance of IDB; and
B.   evidence satisfactory to the Association that
at least three of the coaches referred to
in Part C (ii) of the Project have been
appointed;


﻿- 15 -
(ii) expenditures incurred for the financing of Part
C(iii) of the Project unless and until the Associa-
tion has been furnished with a report on the
implementation satisfactory to the Association, of
Part B(i) of the Project under the First Agreement;
and
(iii) expenditures incurred for the financing of Part D
of the Project unless and until the Association has
been furnished with an action plan satisfactory to
the Association, for the implementation of Part D
of the Project for the period covered by January 1,
1982 to December 31, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without. in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's continuing program to
develop the small and medium size industries in the Borrower's
territory, and consists of the following Par:s:
Part A:   Sub-loans
A program by NDB through the SMI Fund to refinance Sub-loans
by Participating Credit Institutions to small and medium size
industries,
Part B:   NDB and Participating Credit Institution
(i) Improvement of NDB, the SMI Fund and Participating
Credit Institution staff and operational system by
developing capabilities in project review, analysis
of industry groups and supervision through training
and technical services; and
(ii) Improvement of management information systems in
the Participating Credit Institutions.
Part C:   IDB
Strengthening of managerial and technical services of IDB for
small and medium size industries through:
(i) establishment of a consultancy fund for the provi-
sion of technical assistance in the resolution of
specific problems of small and medium size indus-
tries;
(ii) provision of coaching to its extension officers;
and
(iii) expansion of its engineering service facilities.
Part D:   EDB
Assistance by EDB in expanding exports of selected light
industrial products through:


﻿- 17 -
(i) technical assistance and training in adapting
products and upgrading processes to meet export
requirements;
(ii) participation in sales and exposure trips;
(iii) pilot projects by exporters and export-oriented
manufacturers; and
(iv) policy studies to improve export incentives.
Part E:   Subsector Expansion
Expansion of programs for improving light industries with
particular attention to rubber products, building materials,
garments, and handloom products for export.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms for On-lending, Refinancing and Sub-loans
A.   Terms for On-lending by Borrower to NDB
1.   Initial interest rate              11% per annum for
Refinancing of Sub-
loans
2.   Amortization period               14 years, inclusive of
4 years of grace
3.   Foreign exchange risk              to be borne by Borrower
B.   Terms for Refinancing Sub-loans by NDB
1.   Initial interest rates            13% per annum for Sub-
loans up to Rs 500,000;
14% per annum for Sub-
loans exceeding Rs 500,000
and up to Rs 2,000,000
2.   Amortization period          :    maximum of 10 years,
inclusive of 2 years
of grace
3.   Amount of refinancing             up to 80% of amount of
each Sub-loan
C.   Terms of Sub-loans
1.   Initial interest rate             18% per annum for Sub-
loans to be refinanced
out of the proceeds of
the Credit
2.   Amortization period               3 to 10 years including
grace periods of 3 months
to 2 years
3.   Maximum Sub-project               Rs 4,000,000 in land,
size                             buildings, plant,
machinery, equipment and
other fixed assets


﻿- 19 -
4.   Maximum Sub-loan size             Rs 2,000,000 in land,
buildings, plant,
machinery, equipment,
other fixed assets
and permanent working
capital
5.   Minimum equity               :    20% of Sub-project amount
contribution
D.   Adjustment of Terms
1.   The Borrower shall on the date of the Development Credit
Agreement and on each July 1 and January 1 thereafter, notify the
Association of the prevailing rate, and unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, shall adjust the on-lending rate referred
to in C.1 of this Schedule by one percentage point for each
percentage point change between the prevailing rate on such July 1
or January 1 and the prevailing rate on the date hereof; provided,
that the on-lending rate shall not be lower than the on-lending
rate in C.1 unless the prevailing rate on such July 1 or January 1
is below such on-lending rate, in which case notwithstanding the
above, the on-lending rate shall thereafter be the prevailing
rate. For purposes of this paragraph "prevailing rate" means the
rate of the Peoples' Bank applicable to loans to large scale
industry.
2.   (a) For Sub-loans up to Rs 500,000 the spread to the Parti-
cipating Credit Institutions shall remain at least 5%, and to NDB
at least 2%.
(b) For Sub-loans exceeding Rs 500,000 up to Rs 2,000,000
the spread to the Participating Credit Institutions shall remain
at least 4%, and to NDB at least 3%.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


