Report No. PID8495
Project Name                     India-Kerala Rural Water Supply and (@)
Environmental Sanitation Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID                       INPE55454
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
Address GOVERNMENT OF KERALA
Kerala Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Agency
PTC Towers, 3rd Floor, Thampanoor,
Thiruvananthapuram 695 001
Tel: (91 471) 337006
Fax: (91 471) 337004
Email: krwsa@satyam.net.in
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 6, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 29, 2000
Projected Board Date             November 7, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
India: In India, drinking water supply and sanitation is a state
subject. However, the GOI plays a major role in the sector. It
formulates guiding policies, sets standards and provides technical
assistance as well as substantial financial assistance to the states.
Since the beginning of the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85) and the launch
of the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, India
has increased its commitment to the water supply and sanitation sector.
Sector investments have increased and now constitute about 3t of the
national budget (of which 60t is allocated to rural areas). Central
government funding constitutes about 40t of total investment in the
sector. The remainder is provided by the states and only a small amount
(less than 59-) comes from external support agencies. Significant
achievements in coverage have been realized, with over 75%- of the rural
population provided with public water supply facilities. Achievements in
sanitation coverage have been far less (less than 10%-) than in water
supply. National guidelines and investments have traditionally focused on
extending coverage to rural areas, without ensuring the quality of
services. Today, public RWSS services clearly do not adequately serve the
needs of user communities. They are typically poorly designed and
constructed, and often they are designed and positioned at sites without
consideration to community needs or preferences. The planning of RWSS
services also takes place without due attention to resource availability
or quality, and are rarely financially viable; resulting in a government
dominated and target driven service that has become unsustainable
institutionally, financially, and environmentally. A major contributing
factor has also been the availability of unconditional RWSS sector funding
from the central to the state governments. The GOI now recognizes the need



to improve functionality and sustainability of the sector and has taken
some bold initiatives in launching significant sector reforms. As stated
in the Ninth Five Year Plan (1997 to 2002), GOI is committed to principles
that: (a) treat water as an economic good; (b) increase people's
participation; (c) reserve 20t of central funds to states promoting sector
reforms; (d) create stronger links to watershed programs; and (e) control
the over-extraction of groundwater. The principles that would be followed
in allocating 20t of sector reform funds to states are to:    (a) adopt a
demand driven approach and empowerment of villagers; (b) focus on
village-level capacity building; (c) maintain an integrated approach to
water supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion; (d) obtain a partial
capital cost recovery and 100t O&M financing by the users; and (d) promote
groundwater conservation and recharge measures [ref: Accelerated Rural
Water Supply Programme Guidelines, Government of India, Rajiv Gandhi
National Drinking Water Mission (RGNDWM), 1999]. The broader concept of
financial sustainability for the RWSS sector has yet to catch hold in
India.  Though GOI is now moving towards 1009 O&M cost recovery, it is
not ready to initiate a policy of full cost recovery for RWSS projects
(nowhere in the world are rural communities ready to cover costs of a
major overhaul and/or the complete replacement of their systems). Kerala:
GOK has largely followed the GOI's policies and priorities for its RWSS
programs. Until recently, drinking water services have been the sole
responsibility of the KWA, a statutory agency set up in 1986.     Most new
capital investments (about $50 million annually) were implemented by KWA.
Its emphasis has been on enhancing coverage for rural water supply
services and on achieving full coverage for access to safe drinking water
supply. The emphasis has been on building large piped water schemes based
on distant surface water sources and covering multiple panchayats per
scheme. The planning has been supply-driven without a demand perspective,
and scheme operations have rarely satisfied the end-users. Since 1997,
decentralization received a major boost in Kerala with the "people's plan
campaign" for decentralized planning through devolution of over a third of
the state plan funds to local authorities as "untied grants". The main
features of decentralization comprise transfer of functions and staff to
local authorities, financial allocation through statutory and formula
based transfers, and a participatory and rational local level planning
process to ensure appropriate and equitable utilization of funds. It aims
to be flexible while ensuring accountability and transparency in the
process (details of Kerala's decentralization efforts are in Annex 2,
Attachment 1). With decentralization, GOK has taken a major policy
decision to entrust the local authorities with the responsibility for
RWSS, and to transfer all small rural water supply schemes to GPs with
concomitant powers to levy and collect user charges for providing water
services. Increasingly, most new capital investments in rural water
supply, will be through GPs. In May 2000, a step to move closer to
community driven development (CDD), GOK implemented a policy to empower
BGs to make investment decisions, independently manage development funds,
plan and construct water supply schemes, and manage scheme operations. A
major spin-off of devolution of funds has been a quantum jump in internal
resource generation by the GPs and BGs, accelerating the pace of rural
development in Kerala. In addition since 1998, the GOK has focused its
attention on sanitation, as well through setting up the Total Sanitation
and Health Mission (TSHM); which aims to facilitate a self-sustained
health and environmental sanitation program managed and replicated by
local initiatives. Major sectoral issues in Kerala are: inadequate
- 2 -



coverage, poor quality of service, inability of investments to generate
resources for operations and expansion, and renewal and failure of the
KWA. Some related issues are: (a) Lack of perenniality of water
resources: Despite the high rainfall throughout the state (annually 3,000
mm), many rivers run dry in summer, resulting in drought conditions in
several districts. In addition, most drinking water wells dry up during
three to four summer months, and during this time women have to fetch
water from long distances--which causes severe hardship, inconvenience,
and results in lost time.(b) Small versus large water supply schemes: In
view of the past failure of large schemes based on nonlocal water sources,
extensive availability of traditional local water sources and their
demonstrated success, as well as user preferences for them, the emphasis
of future schemes needs to shift to smaller schemes. Large multivillage
schemes should be considered only in a few cases, where the bottom-up
planning process has clearly established that local sources are not
feasible (e.g., in coastal GPs).(c) Decentralization and transfer of small
rural schemes: Making the GOK policy operational will be a challenge, in
view of the range of ownership, past liabilities, and legal issues as well
as likely resistance from KWA and lack of incentives to GPs and BGs.
Thus, the transfer strategy will have to address these issues and develop
incentives to beneficiaries by providing higher service level at lower
costs. (d) Sanitation and water quality: Sanitation coverage in terms of
availability of household latrines is relatively very high in Kerala (over
50%) as compared to the national average (less than 10%). However,
because of the high permeability of soil in most parts, the type of
technology used for latrines and the proximity and high density of open
wells in Kerala, there is a possibility of pollution of drinking water
sources, especially the open dug wells which are used by a large
proportion of the population. Water quality monitoring is not practiced
and measures to control water quality are rarely taken. This requires
closer investigation, attention, and corrective measures. (e) KWA's Role:
Under the Kerala Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1986, KWA aimed to become
a largely autonomous and commercially-oriented organization. In practice,
its powers are limited and its role restricted by the GOK. KWA has no
control over personnel policy and water supply tariff revision remains
subject to government approval. Tariffs are not raised regularly, as
needed to meet full operational cost (the last tariff increase was in
1999, after a gap of five years). KWA is given only limited powers to
decide on contract awards. Every year KWA has incurred an operating
deficit due to low tariffs, excessive operating costs, and low cost
recovery from the users. The GOK capital grants are diverted to meet
KWA's administration costs. Overall, KWA's effectiveness is seriously
eroded because of a range of reasons, both within and outside its
control. With the beginning of decentralized service delivery, the role
of KWA in RWS service delivery will be very limited. Thus, there is a
need to identify a new role for KWA (bulk supply, technical advice,
planning, regulatory body) and to implement the necessary organizational
restructuring.    (f) Financial issues:  Self-financing of new or upgrading
existing infrastructure through cost recovery will be difficult to
implement in the near future in rural areas, but a beginning needs to be
made through appropriate policy changes and political support and a
reorientation of users' perceptions that they should pay for good quality
services.(g) Improving sector information: Good information on sector
status, sector institutions, resources and their performance is not
available in a systematic manner. Developing and managing sector
-3 -



information and access to comparative information and best practices is
necessary to enable local suppliers to assess their performance and attain
quality improvements.
2. Objectives
The overall project development objective is to assist Government of
Kerala (GOK) in improving the quality of rural water supply and
environmental sanitation (RWSS) service delivery to achieve sustainability
of investments. Specific project development objectives would be to: (a)
demonstrate the viability of cost recovery and institutional reforms by
developing, testing and implementing the new decentralized service
delivery model on a pilot basis; and (b) build the state's capacity in
improved sector management in order to scale up the new decentralized
service delivery model statewide. This will assist GOK in furthering its
sector related goal of increasing the access of Kerala's rural population,
particularly the poor and socially disadvantaged groups, to drinking water
supply and environmental sanitation services.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
GOI has requested the IDA to assist a few select states in
operationalizing sector reforms. It believes that Bank support will
provide a strong demonstration effect nationwide. The IDA can assist GOI
in policy workshops, human resource development (HRD), developing and
networking knowledge banks, developing and disseminating information,
education, and communication (IEC) materials and sectoral guidelines,
supporting research and experimental initiatives from interested states,
and studying the best-practice examples from around the globe. Financing
water supply and sanitation investments in rural areas/small towns is
currently a major thrust of the Bank-wide sectoral strategy. For Kerala,
given the long-term nature of implementing statewide institutional reform
and the sizable investments required to meet the needs of the states in
this sector, IDA is uniquely positioned to support both the reform process
and the associated investment program. IDA is also acting as honest
broker to bring about a partnership between the state government and the
private sector/NGO community which is considered necessary to accomplish
this major paradigm shift. In addition, IDA can make available to Kerala
its considerable international experience and best practices in the RWSS
sector. It can also advise states on the international training
institutes and research centers that can provide opportunities to develop
the state's capacity in proven service delivery mechanisms.
4. Description
The key objective of the project is to build the new decentralized
service delivery model and finance sustainable water and sanitation
facilities in some 2,500 communities. In order to achieve this, technical
assistance (TA) will be provided to BGs, GPs, and to the Kerala Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Agency (KRWSA) for learning and project
management (Components A and B). Further, policy lessons will be
monitored, evaluated, and mainstreamed by GOK in the state policies
(Component C) and by GOI in national policies and programs (Component D).
(A). Institution Building covering project management and capacity
building
(B). Community Development and Infrastructure Building
(C). Statewide Sector Development
(D). National Sector Development
-4-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       0
IBRD
IDA                              65.5
BORROWING AGENCY                 6.8
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                10.7
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT,
CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY       6.8
Total Project Cost               89.8
6. Implementation
Institutional Arrangements GOK has overall responsibility for implementing
the state project and the national component with the GOI's RGNDWM. The
main implementing agencies will be: Component A (Institution building)
KRWSA on behalf of its general body Component B (Community Development and
Infrastructure Building )BGs, GPs, SOs, and KRWSAComponent C (Statewide
Sector Development)Secretary Irrigation and Water Supply GOK, and
KRWSAComponent D (National Sector Development) GOI's Rajiv Gandhi
National Drinking Water MissionState Project (Components A, B, and C) The
project's implementation model has four main partners: KRWSA with its
four district project management units (DPMUs), GPs, BGs, and SOs. BGs
will be responsible for defining their RWSS development agenda, preparing
and implementing the schemes, and managing scheme operations on a
sustainable basis. KRWSA and GPs will be responsible for facilitating
project activities and providing financial assistance to BGs. SOs will
assist KRWSA, GPs, and BGs in providing community development,
engineering, and management support. GOK and KRWSA GOK's Irrigation and
Water Supply Department (IWSD) will be the nodal department for the
project. The Secretary of IWSD will be the focal point for the liaison
activities between IDA and GOK. The Secretary of IWSD will be responsible
for implementing statewide sector development programs (Component C) with
KRWSA's active sharing of responsibility, but in collaboration with other
state-level agencies, notably the KWA. GOK has set up an exclusive
state-level institutional structure, KRWSA, to plan and complete project
preparation and later take on management responsibility for project
implementation. KRWSA has been set up as an autonomous registered society
with the secretary of IWSD as its chairman. DPMUs will be set up to
manage the project at the district-level, with state-level support from
KRWSA. Two DPMUs have been set up and are fully functional; the two
remaining DPMUs will be set up before March 31, 2001. KRWSA will have the
overall responsibility to ensure that the project's development objectives
are fully achieved. Its main functions will be to: plan and facilitate
implementation, build the capacity of all project partners, recruit and
manage support organization (SOs), provide technical, financial and
management support to GPs and BGs, ensure appropriate procurement
practices, high quality of engineering designs and construction, manage
project funds, and M&E. It will also be responsible for statewide sector
development activities and reporting the project's progress to IDA.
While recognizing that all government departments/agencies have some
connection with the RWSS sector, it should be linked with project
activities, their role would be generally in the form of information,
guidance, and capacity building. Thus, KRWSA will primarily act as a
single delivery channel for providing assistance to GPs and BGs in
implementing the project. GOK will ensure that KRWSA's "autonomous" status
- 5-



is not compromised and only those decisions are referred to GOK which do
not fall in KRWSA's own authority and mandate as per its MOA and the
bylaws agreed with IDA. KRWSA's composition, functions, and operational
procedures have been agreed and are included in the project implementation
plan (PIP). KRWSA will be headed by an officer of the Additional
Secretary (at least) of GOK, and have a multidisciplinary team of about 25
specialists in finance, human resource development (HRD), M&E, water
supply and sanitation engineering, and sanitation and hygiene promotion,
policy and strategy development, and procurement. At least half of the
staff of KRWSA and DPMU will be from the private sector and NGOs, and will
be recruited on contract basis.    The staff composition will also reflect
an adequate gender balance. Most of the staffing and other actions have
been completed and reflect these principles. To facilitate implementing
statewide sector development (Component C), the executive director of
KRWSA would be designated as an ex-officio secretary of corresponding rank
to the GOK's IWSD. DPMUs will be the district offices of KRWSA and will
assist KRWSA in discharging its district-level functions. On completing
the first batch of schemes, KRWSA will delegate many of its operational
functions to the DPMUs and it will mainly focus its attention on: (a)
monitoring and evaluation, (b) distilling lessons learned and adapting the
project implementation rules, processes, and procedures, (c) long-term
sector policy formulation and developing strategic plan for statewide
implementation, and (d) finalizing plans for scaling-up the project's
decentralized service delivery model to cover the entire project
districts, and to operationalize these in the final year of project
implementation. Gram Panchayat GP will be the focal point for project
activities in the GP area. GPs will be mainly responsible for seeking
project assistance following a self-selection process, preparing the
implementation phase proposal during the planning phase, and for
facilitating project implementation by BGs during implementation phase.
GPs will provide counterpart funding to BGs as a percentage of
infrastructure building costs. During the post-implementation phase, the
GPs will monitor the sustainability of scheme operations and ensure that
the BGs satisfactorily discharge their O&M management function including
levying and collecting user charges from the beneficiaries to fully
recover the recurrent O&M costs. Beneficiary Groups and Committees The BGs
will be responsible for planning, technology selection, and constructing
their RWSS facilities, providing their part of the capital cost
contribution, managing O&M of the improved facilities, and levying and
collecting sufficient user charges. Representative BCs will be set up by
each of the participating BGs. Their composition, functions, method of
selecting members, bylaws, legal framework, and relationship with the GP
and KRWSA have been agreed. The project would make vigorous efforts to
maximize women's representation and management role in the BCs. The
project rules require that membership of BCs would be at least    50-
women,  and 20- from socially disadvantaged groups (where available). At
least one of the top management positions of the BC (president or
treasurer) will be held by a woman. Support Organizations NGOs and private
sector consultants will play an important role in the project as SOs.
There will be three categories of SOs. The first will support the GPs,
BGs, and beneficiar committees (BCs), on a day-to-day basis in planning
and implementing the project's activities, and providing brief support to
BGs during post-implementation to stabilize scheme operations. The second
will be a range of government-supported local autonomous institutions that
will assist the project in its capacity building programs, or providing
- 6 -



specialized assistance--such as in the of preparing groundwater recharge
schemes, water quality monitoring, or in developing strategy and materials
for sanitation and hygiene promotion programs. The third category will be
private sector consulting firms which would provide assistance in
computerized financial management systems, audits and accounts, design
engineering of multipanchayat water supply schemes, independent
construction quality monitoring, management information systems (MIS), and
M&E in statewide sector development activities. National Component
(Component D) The objective of the component is to provide technical
assistance to GOI (represented by RGNDWM) in furthering its sector reform
agenda, countrywide. This will be achieved through building RGNDWM's
capacity in reform implementation. This will include policy workshops,
HRD, training and study tours, developing knowledge banks, and their
networking. RGNDWM will prepare a detailed report covering activities and
implementation plan before March 31, 2001. It will designate an officer
to GOI (not below the rank of deputy secretary), to be responsible for
implementing the national component.Implementation Arrangements Schedule:
The project will be implemented in 80 GPs in five successive but
overlapping batches, consisting of 5, 15, 20, 25, and 15 GPs respectively.
A detailed project implementation schedule has been developed for a
six-year project implementation period from January 2001 to December 2006
(Annex 2, Attachment 4). Each batch would follow a 27-month scheme cycle
consisting of four distinct phases (preplanning-3 months, planning-12
months, implementation-8 months, and post implementation-4 months).
Because of their special community empowerment needs or technical
complexity, the scheme cycle for a few multipanchayat schemes and the
tribal schemes will last longer and will be spread over a 30- to 36-month
period. Agreement has been reached on the scheme cycle to be adopted for
small schemes. The scheme cycle for large schemes and tribal schemes will
be developed during the first year of implementation. The scheme cycle
for implementation of Component B (Annex 2, Attachment 5): An innovative
scheme cycle has been developed in partnership with all the key
stakeholders during the preparation missions. This will be an important
tool for implementation planning and monitoring of project activities and
provides a unique calendar for all the project partners to precisely know
the activities, scheduling and sequencing, respective responsibilities,
the interdependence of activities, and the tools required to perform each
activity. The scheme cycle is not intended to be a process blue-print,
but would be flexibly used to accommodate the needs of the people, GP and
the schemes on a case-by-case basis. However, experience has shown the
need and utility of using such a tool to bring order and cost
effectiveness in implementing the project's CDD approach. This process is
also synchronized with GOK's annual decentralized planning process. The
main activities and outputs of each phase are summarized below. (a)
Preplanning (about 3 months - August to October). The main activities
would be SO prequalification, GP selection, and the signing of a planning
phase tripartite agreement (PPTA) between KRWSA, GP, and SO. A rigorous
SO prequalification process (Annex 2, Attachment 7) has been agreed and
will be strictly followed. GPs will be selected based on an agreed
systematic self-selection process (advertising, receiving applications,
ranking and prioritizing in line with agreed selection criteria and final
selection). The process will be carried out at the commencement of each
batch. The preplanning phase will conclude with signing of the PPTA
between KRWSA, GP, and SO. There will be one PPTA per GP. Model
agreements (stipulating roles and responsibilities of each party) have
-7 -



been developed for the PPTA and agreed with IDA.(b) Planning (12 months -
November to October). The sequential main outputs in the first four
months will be: orientation and capacity building for GPs and SOs,
take-over of existing KWA schemes by GPs, BG registration, forming the
BCs, opening bank accounts, resource mapping, and preparing and signing
the "agree to do" reports between KRWSA and GP. Subsequent activities
will be: technology selection, preparation of engineering designs and
community action plans, and finally a comprehensive implementation phase
proposals (IPP) for the GP as a whole. The GP, BC, and BG capacity
building, sanitation and hygiene promotion (SHP), and women's development
programs would be parallel activities throughout the planning phase. The
planning phase would conclude with signing of an implementation phase
quadrilateral agreement (IPQA) between KRWSA, GP, SO, and the
participating BGs. There would be one IPQA per BG. A separate
implementation phase tripartite agreement (IPTA) would be signed between
SO, GP, and KRWSA for managing SO contracts. The GP and BGs would also
deposit further installments of their cash contribution to make the
implementation phase effective. Model agreements have been developed for
IPTA and IPQA and agreed with IDA. (c) Implementation (8 months - November
to June). The main activities will be: procurement of materials and
construction of schemes as per agreed plans and procedures and management
of project funds. BCs will carry out these activities. The SOs will have
daily responsibility for providing technical and management support to the
BCs. Communities may decide to use small local contractors or build the
schemes themselves. During the implementation phase, KRWSA will conduct
O&M skills and management training programs for the BCs and the
prospective scheme operators. Sanitation and hygiene promotion
activities, and women's development programs will continue during the
implementation phase. KRWSA and GPs will oversee the performance of the
BCs.  KRWSA and GPs will jointly manage the SO contract.    Collecting 50t
of the estimated annual O&M costs by the BCs will be the condition of
release of GOK's third and final installment of construction funds. KRWSA
will also conduct concurrent and independent audit of the quality of
construction. The model document will be prepared for implementation
completion report (ICR) for each scheme.(d) Post-Implementation Phase (4
months - July to October). During this phase, the GPs (supported by SOs)
would provide advisory support to the communities in efficient O&M of
improved services, on billing and collection of water charges, and in
simple book-keeping. The signing of ICRs in public gatherings by KRWSA,
GP, and BCs will mark the formal exit of KRWSA from a project GP. KRWSA
will conduct sample sustainability monitoring and later impact evaluation
studies to measure sustainability and assess the project outcome.
Financial Management GOK has committed to release to KRWSA the project
funds included in the approved annual state budget as equity grant. GOK
recognizes the importance of externally-aided projects in its internal
financial management, and during negotiations assured IDA that it would
endeavor to provide advance funds to KRWSA to match the requirements of
the agreed project implementation schedule. The ongoing Kerala Forestry
Project (Credit 3053-IN) has received adequate budgetary support and funds
from GOK. The agreed funds flow arrangements are described in detail in
Annex 6. KRWSA, with the help of consultants, is in the process of
implementing computerized financial management systems, that are
compatible with IDA's Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI)
requirement. KRWSA has appointed a finance director to head the finance
and accounting function; and is assisted by a finance manager who is a
- 8 -



chartered accountant with private sector experience. KRWSA will appoint an
independent chartered accountant firm to audit KRWSA's and the DPMU's
account books, and to certify the annual project financial statements.
KRWSA will also appoint separate audit firm(s) to audit and certify the
use of funds by SO, GP, and BC during the preplanning, planning, and
implementation phase of each batch. For providing training and
implementation assistance in accounting and reporting to SOs, GPs, and
BCs, KRWSA will appoint two chartered accountant firms.Monitoring and
Evaluation Monitoring and operational learning are a central aspect of
this project. Improving project management and implementation and
effectiveness of all relevant players and stakeholders--BGs, GPs, SOs,
KRWSA/DPMU, and GOK--is an ongoing activity and will be developed over the
course of implementation. Benchmarks to measure this would be agreed at
an early stage of implementation. Details of the proposed M&E system are
given in Annex 2, Attachment 8. A three-part M&E system has been
proposed: (a) progress monitoring (physical, financial and milestones);
(b) process monitoring by which development outcomes are to be achieved;
and (c) impact evaluations; (a) and (b) would be conducted continuously
throughout the project.KRWSA will be responsible for monitoring the
progress at all levels through a an MIS (computerized). Activities to be
monitored would include both physical and financial progress, as well as
milestones in the scheme cycle. The process monitoring is crucial for
rapid adjustment to project design/approach based on implementation
experience. KRWSA will undertake this through data generated by the MIS.
It would use this information and its own assessments to judge the quality
of project implementation, particularly, client satisfaction at the
BG-level with project inputs and mechanisms to ensure inclusiveness. The
approach to process monitoring would encourage self-assessment by BGs.
There would be periodic monitoring by user groups themselves of progress
in implementation of agreements, and in the performance of project staff,
GPs, and SOs in facilitating implementation. Impact evaluations by an
independent agency will be carried out in three stages. The first stage
would establish the baseline. The second stage would coincide with the
MTR of the project--by this time it will be possible to evaluate the
project's success in developing the institutional model. The third stage
would evaluate the sustainability of the institutional model and its
impact in reaching the rural poor as well as degree of participation by
the poor and vulnerable in decision making bodies. A list of indicators
to be tracked by the M&E system is given in Annex 1. These will be
refined during implementation.Reporting--Midterm, and Completion Reviews
KRWSA will be responsible for preparing a consolidated (every six months)
progress reports to be submitted no later than September 30 and March 31
of each year for the preceding six months, in the format agreed with IDA.
The purpose of these reports will be to provide IDA and GOI with timely
information on the project's progress, and to highlight problems in
achieving the development objectives. The progress reports would focus on
the agreed monitoring indicators. A MTR will be held no later than June
30, 2003, and the recommendations of the review will thereafter be
implemented no later than December 31, 2003. The MTR would establish
progress of the main project objectives. To this end, the review would
focus on the key indicators presented in Annex 1.     The MTR would be an
in-depth assessment of implementation experiences and an opportunity to
change course where appropriate.
7. Sustainability
9



Sustainability implies that the system works throughout its life and
beyond, and it is able to generate adequate cash flow for future
expansion/renewal. Though full cost recovery is not possible in the
Indian (and even global) RWSS context in the immediate future, the project
makes a significant beginning by introducing partial capital cost
financing and 100% of O&M financing by the users.   The project has some
design rules to ensure sustainability. If these do not appear to work,
the annual review process will be used to recalibrate/change the design
rules. The factors critical for sustainability of the project are
summarized below. Ownership and financial sustainability. Agreement on
counterpart funding by the local government and capital cost sharing by
the beneficiaries are the first indications of the demand for improved
RWSS services. Since the end-users will have control over resources, and
their allocation and decision making, there is a greater chance that they
will also raise resources to manage scheme operations on a sustainable
basis. The risk that populist policies by any future government may
reverse this self-reliance by the users is low, but it happens, will be
difficult to mitigate. Including all sections of society (particularly
the poor, women, and the more vulnerable groups) in decision making,
implementation, and in receiving the project benefits, is essential for
sustainability. The project's rules and specific interventions targeting
these groups should have a positive influence on sustainability. The
project's targeted interventions through GP selection criteria, should
minimize the risk of excluding women and TDPs. Technical. The
sustainability of yield from the selected drinking water sources will be
enhanced by adopting scientific methods in locating and implementing
associated measures for water conservation and GWR. The sustainability of
physical works will be improved by adopting sound designs and engineering
practices, and monitoring the quality of construction and construction
materials. The operational sustainability will be strengthened by the
training of operators, preventive maintenance, and maintaining the quality
of water by regular disinfection. Institutional. The project's
institutional arrangements are in line with GOK's policy of moving away
from the government's direct service delivery function to a facilitating
function. Sustainability of the BGs is likely because: (a) the concept
of neighborhood groups (NHGs) and user committees is deep-rooted in Kerala'
s People's Plan Campaign; and (b) GOK has bestowed legal empowerment to
them. Empowerment of GP as an institution is largely assured because (a)
its substantial empowerment is taking place under the ongoing
decentralization process; (b) the government is determined to continue its
strengthening; (c) Kerala's decentralization process now seems
irreversible; and (d) national policies also support decentralization.
There is a risk that the new state-level facilitating agency can also
become as bureaucratic as the previous centralized line ministries. The
project is therefore developing, testing, and implementing the new
institutional model and its success or failure will greatly determine the
future directions of sectoral reforms in Kerala. The possibility of this
risk coming to pass has been minimized by up-front agreement on KRWSA's
autonomy and its mandate for implementing CDD. The pressure from Kerala's
strong GPs and the project's extensive capacity building interventions for
all actors, should minimize the risk of failure of the project's
institutional model. Sustainability monitoring. KRWSA will conduct
systematic sustainability monitoring exercises for each batch during its
operational phase. Because of the batchwise implementation of schemes,
there will be ample opportunities to monitor scheme performance of the
- 10 -



first three batches of schemes and to take corrective actions where
necessary to ensure sustainability of scheme operations, the ultimate
measure of project success.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
International experience: The sector reform principles from the
Dublin-Rio conference (1992), the Global Community water and sanitation
conference (Washington, May 1998) organized by the World Bank Institute
and the findings of the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's (OED's)
global study of 12 RWSS projects (February 1999) synthesize the lessons
learned from international experiences in implementing RWSS projects over
the past two decades. The emerging international policies call for
treating water as an economic and social good managed at the lowest
appropriate level. For the provision of RWSS this requires that the
consumers be engaged in the process of selecting, financing, implementing
and managing systems that meet their demands and willingness to pay. Yet
putting demand-responsive principles into practice presents significant
challenges. The experiences from the Bank assisted projects in Bolivia,
China, Ghana, Indonesia, Nepal, Paraguay, and Sri Lanka, have demonstrated
the effectiveness of these approaches in improving the sustainability of
investments. Indian experience: Over the past decade, the partnership
between the GOI and the Bank has made impressive progress in successively
developing and implementing innovative strategies to improve the sector's
performance. These are in line with the global consensus on the principle
of "management at the lowest appropriate level", an important prerequisite
for sustainability. Thus, it moved from fully government implemented
top-down approach in Maharashtra (Cr. 2234-IN) to community participation
approach in Karnataka (Cr. 2483-IN) to "demand-responsive approach in
partnership with NGOs and user groups" in Uttar Pradesh (Ln. 4056-IN), (in
1997, the Bank declined to negotiate a loan to RWSS project in Punjab
because it introduced a policy of free water and power to farmers. This
was because of the unavoidable impact such a policy would have on the
sustainability of Punjab's financial resources, and on the already
constrained groundwater resources). The successive projects show the
evolution of the key strategies needed to improve sustainability. The
Bank-assisted RWSS project in Uttar Pradesh has been acknowledged
nationally and internationally as a best practice example in implementing
demand-responsive approach. Similarly, the participatory evaluation
methods of sustainability monitoring using the village immersion process
were pioneered in Karnataka and have become an integral part of
implementing supervision. The OED's Impact Evaluation Report on five
recent Bank-assisted RWSS projects (May 1998), as well as lessons learned
from projects supported by other donor agencies (Dutch, DANIDA, DFID) in
India have also provided valuable lessons in the design of participatory
projects and are reflected in the design of this project. Some
experiences and key lessons learned so far from these national experiences
are:(a) Policy: (i) ownership of the project design, both at political
and bureaucratic level is a prerequisite for success of a project, (ii)
conducive policy environment and willingness to learn by doing are equally
vital for success, (iii) the design of the project should respond to the
village's desire for high service standards, (iv) prospects of
sustainability are in direct proportion to the degree of control the
beneficiaries have in planning and implementing their development
programs. (b) Institutional and implementation: (i) women's
participation improves local ownership and the quality of implementation.
- 11 -



Imaginative approaches rooted in their needs and sociocultural environment
have been considered and vigorously implemented to draw women into project
activities, (ii) changing mandates and mind-sets of state agencies,
capacity building of all stakeholders through providing resources and
quality time, need to be at the core of project design, (iii)
implementation arrangements and procurement procedures should be in line
with community empowerment principles in participatory projects; the state
level institutions in particular should have the appropriate mandate and
functional autonomy to play an effective facilitating role, (iv) generally
due to the stronger credibility of NGOs by the communities, they seem to
be the best available option to build the beneficiary's capacity. To
facilitate scaling-up, private sector participation should be experimented
with and promoted, (v) concurrent M&E, innovate and experiment with
learning from experiences, and adapting these into implementation
strategies to make a positive contribution to improving the project's
performance, (vi) observing, listening, and learning through cross visits
to best practice examples, within the state, in-country and overseas pays
rich dividends towards increasing ownership to participatory approaches by
all stakeholders; (vii) miscommunication of the project rules, roles, and
responsibilities of various partners, is the greatest danger to smooth
implementation; and (viii) the concept of scheme cycle and correct
activity sequencing has to be fully developed and well-entrenched in the
project's design. (c) Financial: (i) partial financing of capital cost by
the users has proved a viable development concept; however, the cost
recovery rules should be simple and their administration user-friendly.
User management and financing of O&M has also proved to be viable, and
(ii) rural water projects are part of the social safety net that
government provides. The Bank should explicitly support this decision,
while it helps governments to improve their economies to the point where
all citizens can afford to drink water that will not make them ill.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Studies Undertaken   KRWSA, with help from
consultants, has carried out two studies: (a) "Water Quality Assessment
of Open Wells in Selected GPs in Project Districts", and (b) an
environmental analysis (EA), identifying key environmental issues for the
project and preparing an environmental management plan (EMP). Public
consultations: As part of the EA study, six public consultations were
held in the Batch 1 GPs in the project districts to identify environmental
issues as perceived by the prospective primary stakeholders. These were:
(a) sustainability of yield from the proposed drinking water sources with
minimal interference to the existing sources and the need for design
service standards to be in line with source yield; (b) need for regulatory
measures for groundwater withdrawal to prevent water mining, hydraulic
interference between wells and salt water intrusion along coastal areas;
(c) ensuring at all times a bacteriologically safe, potable water supply
is available to the community; (d) watershed management programs to be
implemented concurrently with water supply schemes to ensure
sustainability and perenniality of sources; (e) need to address the
problem of safe/sanitary disposal of solid waste (including hospital, and
slaughter house wastes) in certain panchayats; and (f) effective
promotional campaigns and community awareness programs to elicit the
participation of all sections of the community in the proposed project.
- 12 -



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Ghanasham V. Abhyankar
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 10, 2000.
- 13 -



