E-355
VOL. 2 REVISED
Environmental Analysis Report
for
Kerala Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation (KRWSS) Project
30 th May, 2000
Prepared for
The World Bank, Washington D.C.
and
Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency
Prepared by
Dr. R. Paramasivam (Consultant)






CONTENTS
CHAPTER                             TITLE                          PAGE
Executive Summary
1.      Introduction
1.1. Background                                        1.1
1.2. Environmental Analysis Study                      1.2
1.3. Methodology                                       1.2
1.4. Organisation of the Report                        1.4
2.       Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework for
Environmental Analysis
2.1. EA Requirements for Project Proposed for IDA Funding    2.1
2.2. Ministry of Environment & Forests, GOI Requirements  2.1
2.3. Kerala State Water Policy                         2.3
2.4. Water Quality Monitoring                          2.6
2.5. State Ground Water legislation                    2.11
2.6. Statutory Requirements of State Pollution Control Board   2.12
2.7. Coastal Zone Management (CZM) Plan of Kerala      2.12
3.       Project Description
3.1. Project Development Objective                     3.1
3.2. Project Scope and Area                            3.1
3.3. Project Components                                3.2
3.4. Project Cost and Financing Plan                   3.4
3.5. Institutional Arrangement                         3. 6
X                           3.6. Project Implementation Schedule and Scheme Cycle   3.9
3.7. Expected Benefits of the Project                  3.9
4.       Baseline Environmental Status
4.1. Physical Environment                              4.1
Location & Physiography



Geology
Rainfall
Climate
4.2. Water Environment                                4.5
Surface Water Resources
Surface Water Quality
Salinity Intrnsion
Hydrogeology
Groundwater Potential and Utilisation in Kerala
Groundwater Quality
Over-exploitation of Groundwater in Certain
Hydro-geological Zones
Fecal contamination in Ground Water Sources
Surface Water Sources of Malappuram district
Groundwater Quality Along Malappuram Coast
Water Resources of Kozhikode district
Coastal Ground Water Quality in Kozhikode District
Water Resources of Thrissur district
Groundwater Occurrence and Availability
Groundwater Extraction Structures and Their Density
Groundwater Utilisation
Bacteriological Quality of Groundwater
Endemic Health Problems
Chemical Quality of Groundwater
Effect of Fertiliser and Pesticide on Groundwater
Quality
Water Scenario of Palakkad District
Diminishing and Deteriorating Traditional Sources
4.3.  Socio-economic Environment                     4.48
Population
Tribal population
ii



Living and Habitation Patterns of People
Economy
Water Supply and Sanitation
Water Quality Assessment of Dug Wells in Selected
Panchayats of Project District
Quality Improvement Programme of Water Supply by
KWA
Water Quality Monitoring Setup
Total Sanitation Programme of Kerala Government
4.4.  Summary Observations                             4.66
4.5.  Public Consultations                             4.67
Summary of Main Issues                           4.71
5.       Impact Identification and Analysis
5.1.  Preamble                                          5.1
5.2.  Pre- construction Phase Impacts                   5.2
5.3.  Construction Phase Impacts                        5.5
5.4.  Operation Phase Impacts                           5.5
5.5.  Analysis of Alternatives                         5.11
6.       Environmental Management Plan
6.1.  Preamble                                         6.1
6.2.  Key Environmental Issues                         6.1
Water Quantity
Water Quality
6.3.  Mitigation Strategy                              6.3
Water Quantity Aspects
Water Quality Aspects
6.4.  Environmental Monitoring & Evaluation            6.14
I1.      List of References
2.       List of Annexures
iii



LIST OF TABLES
Table                              Title                              Page
No.                               TteNo.
2.1    Projects Requiring Enviromental Clearance as per Schedule-I of    2.2
Ministry of Environment & Forests Notification, 1994
3.1    Project Cost Summary                                          3.5
3.2    KRWSS Project Percentage Implementation Plan of Schemes - 4    3.10
Batches
4.1    Water Potential in the River Basins of Kerala                 4.6
4.2    Per Capita Water Resources in litres/head/day                 4.7
4.3    Districtwise Utilizable Resources, Drafts and Balance for Kerala   4.10
States as on 31.3.92
4.4    Details of Pollution due to Domestic waste in Chalakudy River  4.12
4.5    Details of Major Townships Contributing Pollution Load in the   4.14
Bharathapuzha River Basin
4.6    Average yearly Consumption of Pesticides in the Project Districts for   4.15
the year 1998
4.7    Details of Major Industries Contributing  Pollution  in  the   4.17
Bharathapuzha River Basin
4.8    Groundwater Resource and Irrigation Potential of Kerala       4.21
4.9    District-wise distribution of Springs in Kerala               4.23
4.10    Meinzer's Classification of Springs                          4.24
4.11    Fluoride Concentrations in the Wells of Kerala                4.26
4.12    Details of Microbiologically Contaminated Wells in Midlands of   4.27
Thrissur
4.13    Percentage of samnpled Wells contaminated with Fe, pH and Cl in   4.28
various Districts of Kerala
4.14    Water Quality Status of Selected Wells in Palakkad District   4.30
4.14a. Bacteriological Characteristics of Well Water Samples in   4.32
Mannarkkad Taluk, Palakkad District
4.14b. Bacteriological Characteristics of Well Water Sample in   4.33
Ottappalam Taluk, Palakkad District
4.15    4.15a. Statistics of Water-borne Diseases in Palakkad District of   4.34
Kerala
4.15b. Statistics of Waterbome Diseases in Kerala as compared to   4.34
All- India
iv



4.16    Water Resources Availability and Utilization in Kozhikode District    4.40
4.17    Present and Future Water Demand for Kozhikode District       4.42
4.18    Ground Water Potential of Thrissur District                  4.44
4.19    District-wise Population Profile of Kerala - 1991 Census     4.50
4.20    Salient Socio-economic Data of Kerala (1991 Census)          4.51
4.21    Coverage and Status of Water Supply in the State of Kerala (Rural)   4.54
4.22    Coverage and Status of Water Supply in the State of Kerala (Urban)  4.55
4.23    Rural Water Supply Coverage Status under the RGNDWM in Kerala   4.56
State
4.24.   Range, Mean and Standard Deviation of various water quality   4.59
Parameters of the pilot Panchayaths
4.25.   Physical & Chemical analysis of water samples from selected bore   4.61
wells of the pilot panchayaths
4.26    Bacteriological Contamination in Drinking Water Sources (wells)   4.62
in the Four Pilot Districts
5.1    Kerala Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project -    5.3
Environmental Impact Matrix
6.1    Summary of Potential Adverse Impacts and Mitigatory Measures  6.5
6.2    Performance Indicators                                       6.15
v



]LIST OF FIGURES
Title
3.2   Proposed Institutional set-up for KRWSS Project                  3.7
3.3    Organogram for the KRWSS Project Management Unit (PMU)          3.8
LIST OF MAPS
Title
3.1.   Index Plan showing the Project Districts
4.1    Administrative Divisions of Kerala
4.2.   Water level Fluctuation between August 1996 and Mean Water Level
for August (1987-96)
4.3.   Water level Fluctuation between November 1996 and Mean Water
Level for August (1987-96)
4.4.   Water level Fluctuation between April 1997 and Mean Water Level for
April (1987-96)
vi



LIST OF ACRONYMS USED
AIIH & PH      -   All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health
BC             -  Beneficiary Committee
BIS            -   Bureau of Indian Standards
BOD            -  Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CGWB           -   Central Ground Water Board
CWC            -   Central Water Commission
CWRDM          -   Centre for Water Resources Development and Management
DPMU           -   District Project Management Unit
DSTE           -   Department of Science,Technology &  Environment (Govt of
Kerala)
EA             -   Environmental Analysis
EIA            -   Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP            -   Environmental Management Plan
GoK            -   Government of Kerala
GP             -   Gram Panchayat
GWD            -   Ground Water Department (Of Kerala)
ID              -   Irrigation Department
IEC             -   Information, Education and Communication
KAP             -   Knowledge, Attitude and Practices
KCIP            -   Kerala Community Irrigation Project
KRWSA           -   Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency
KRWSS           -   Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (Project)
KSPCB           -   Kerala State Pollution Control Board
KWA             -   Kerala Water Authority
lpd             -   litres per day
Ipcd            -   litres per capita per day
vii



MCM            -  Million Cubic Metre
MOEF           -   Ministry of Environment and Forests (Govt of India)
MPN            -  Most Probable Number
MSL            -   Mean Sea Level
NGO            -  Non-Governmental Organisation
O&M            -   Operation and Maintenance
PMU            -   Project Management Unit
RWSA           -  Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency
SC             -   Scheduled Caste
SEUF           -   Socio-Economic Unit Foundation
SLC            -   Scheme Level Committee
SO             -   Support Organisation
SPC            -   Standard Plate Count
ST             -   Scheduled Tribe
THSM           -   Total Health and Sanitation Mission
VWSC           -   Village Water and Sanitation Conmmittee
LIST OF ANNEXURES
Title
Annexure 1     Environmental Analysis' Study for Kerala RWSS Terms of
Reference
Annexure 2     Public Consultation
Annexure 3     Sanitary Survey of Water Supply Sources
Annexure 4     Recuperation Test for Yield Estimation of an Open Well
Annexure 5     Roof Water Harvesting Systems
Annexure 6     Bleach Powder Solution Dosing Equipment for Disinfection of
Small Pumped Water Suppliers
Annexure 7     Sanitary Protection of Wells through Cement Grouting
viii



Annexure 8     Safe Sanitation Technologies
Annexure 9     Vermi Composting
Annexure 10    Draft Bill on Groundwater Regulation
ix






1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. Background
The Govt. of Kerala (GoK), encouraged by the people's demand for better quality
of life through improved access to safe water supply and sanitation services, and their
willingness to participate in all stages of development from planning to implementation
including total responsibility for operation and maintenance (O & M) of the systems,
proposes to launch, with World Bank assistance, a pilot water supply and sanitation
project in four districts of the state, with scope for replication of the model in other parts
of the state. The GoK, which has initiated the decentralised planning programme since
1997, will implement the project through its recently established Rural Water and
Sanitation Agency (RWSA).
The project is in the preparation stage and is aimed at improving the quality of rural
water supply and environmental sanitation service delivery to achieve sustainability of
investment and generate health and income benefits. This will be realised through (a)
phased implementation of appropriate policy and institutional reforms and (b) delivery of
demand responsive and sustainable water and sanitation services to the beneficiary
communities in the pilot districts.
The key components of the project include construction of new / augmentation/
rehabilitation of drinking water schemes, drainage schemes, household latrines, solid waste
disposal systems, and environmental management and watershed development schemes. The
health, hygiene and sanitation component of the project includes health and hygiene education
programs for safe handling of drinking water, disposal of waste water (sullage), personal
hygiene, household hygiene and community environmental sanitation. The integrated
watershed  management component  of the project includes schemes for improving
sustainability and perenniality of the water sources. The project also includes state-wide sector
development studies including institutional capacity building and programs for improving
1.1



KWA's O&M cost recovery performance and preparing river basin plans for the project area.
The proposed project, estimated to cost approximately US$ 80 million will be implemented
in phases over a period of 6 years with financial assistance from the Bank.
1.2. Environmental Analysis Study
The proposed RWSS project has been classified by the Bank under category B
requiring Environmental Analysis (EA) only, as the impacts of the project are expected
to be positive; few, if any, of them may be negative for which the mitigatory measures
can be designed easily. Accordingly, the terms of reference (ToR) for the EA study have
been formulated as in Annexure I.
1.3. Methodology
Collection and Collation of Secondary Data
The methodology basically comprised collection and collation of secondary data
on water resources availability, their utilisation, ambient and ground water quality,
problems of water quantity and quality as relevant in the context of the proposed
KRWSA project, demographic and socio-economic aspects, water supply and sanitation
coverage and service levels and problems in 0 & M of existing water supply systems with
focus on the four project districts. A review and analysis of this information resulted in the
delineation of the baseline status of relevant environmental components in the project districts
and provided the basis for identification and assessment of the potential environmental impacts
due to the proposed project and preparation of environmental management plan (END) for
enhancing beneficial impacts and mitigating adverse impacts. The agencies for the secondary
sources of data included the KWA, KSPCB, CWRDM, state/central ground water departnents,
state irrigation, agriculture, industries, social welfare departments, SEUF and NGOs.
Site Visits to Proiect GPs
Existing rural water supply systems based on ground water / surface sources were
inspected to obtain first hand information on existing systems, their performance,
1.2



including adequacy of source, water quality, potential sources of contamination,
constraints / problems in 0 & M, and identification of issues, if any, that need to be
addressed in the proposed project design. During these visits detail discussions were held
with the consumers, the KWA, local GPs and NGOs.
Public Consultations
This constituted an important activity during the site visits, and were held at least
in one pilot GP in each of the four project districts so as to assess the knowledge attitude
and practices (KAP) of the communities w.r.t. water, health and sanitation including
personal and environmental. hygiene, their awareness of, roles in and expectations from
the proposed projects, their views/suggestions to enhance project performance and
benefits as also any new other issues that need to be addressed in the project. The
participants in these consultations comprised the beneficiaries, SOs, KWA, RWSA and
NGOs. The salient points arising from the consultations were compiled for incorporation,
as appropriate, in the project design and in the preparation of EMP.
The EA consultant interacted with fellow consultants engaged in studies on other
components of the project viz., water quality survey, watershed management and social
assessment including health, sanitation and hygiene component for exchanging information and
findings of common interest. Their findings and recommendations were incorporated in the
preparation of environmental mitigation and monitoring plan for the project.
Desk Study
The desk study included the following:
A detailed review of available secondary data on water resources (surface and
ground), their distribution, utilisation and problems related to water quality etc. in
the state in general and with specific focus on the four project districts.
1.3



*     An assessment of the adequacy of current water quality monitoring programmes and
institutional capacity for the project area leading to recommendations for improving
them
*     A review  of the existing state policies and legislations on water and its
management in the light of similar acts/ legislations in force elsewhere, and
suggestions to help achieve the project objective of safe water and sanitation to
the target populations
*     Identification of major environmental impacts, primary, secondary etc. due to the
proposed project and delineation of EMP for enhancing beneficial impacts and
mitigating adverse impacts
Identification  and  preparation  of appropriate  environmental performance
indicators which could form the basis for evaluation of the project.
In all the above activities, the consultant worked very closely with the staff of
KRWSA and other partners for the proposed project.
1.4. Organisation of the Report
The report is presented in six chapters including the introductory chapter.
Chapter 2 provides information on the policy, legal and administrative framework
for environmental assessment and requirements for appraisal of the proposed project by
the Bank.
Chapter 3 presents the details of the proposed project, the project cost and
financing plan, the institutional arrangements, the project implementation schedule as
also the expected benefits from the project.
1.4



Chapter 4 presents the baseline data on relevant environmental components in the
state in general and with specific reference to the four project districts. The baseline data
formed the basis for identification and analysis of the potential impacts due to the
proposed project.
Chapter 5 analyses the potential environmental impacts primary, secondary,
beneficial, adverse etc. due to the proposed project activities.
Chapter 6 describes the enviromnental management plan (EMP) for enhancing the
beneficial impacts of the project and mitigating the adverse impacts. Enviromnental
performance indicators have been proposed which could be used as tools to assess the
project performance.
1.5



2. POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
2.1.  EA Requirements for Projects Proposed for IDA Funding
Considering the type, location, sensitivity and the scale of the project as well as
the nature and magnitude of its potential impacts, the proposed KRWSS project has been
classified by the Bank as Category 'B' requiring environmental analysis (EA) only. The
overall impact of the project on human population is expected to be positive, and in most
cases of potentially adverse impacts, if any, the mitigative measures can be designed
easily so as to improve environmental performance.
As per OP 4.01 of the Bank, the EA process requires that the project affected
groups and the local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are consulted about the
project's environmental aspects and their views are taken into account in the design of the
project. Prior to the consultation, relevant information regarding the project's objectives,
description and potential impacts is provided to the project affected groups and local
NGOs. In the bottom-up planning process adopted in the formulation of the proposed
KRWSS project, the above requirements have already been fulfilled. The report on the
EA study, when completed, should be made accessible to the affected groups and local
NGOs. Public availability in the borrowing country and official receipt of the EA report
by the Bank are pre-requisites to Bank appraisal of the project.
2.2.  Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Govt. of India Requirements
As per the Ministry's Notification of 1994 (as amended on May 4, 1994) under the
Environmental (Protection) Act of 1986, environmental clearance from the Central
Government is mandatory for expansion or modernisation of any activity, if pollution
load is to exceed the existing one and also for new projects listed in Schedule -1
(Table 2.1) of the Notification. By another Notification dated April 10, 1997 the MoEF,
2.1



Table 2.1
Projects Requiring Environrmental Clearance as per Schedule-I of Ministry of
Environment & Forests Notification, 1994
1   Nuclear power and related projects such as heavy water plants, nuclear fuel complex, rare earths
2   River valley projects including hydel power, major irrigation and their combination including flood
control
3   Ports, harbours, airports (except minor ports and harbours)
4   Petroleum refineries including crude and product pipelines
5   Chemical fertilizers (Nitrogenous and Phosphatic) other than single superphosphate
6   Pesticides (Technical)
7   Petrochemical complexes (both Olefmic and Aromatic and Petro-chemical intermediates such as
DMT, Caprolactum LAB etc. and production of basic plastics such as LLPDE, HPDE, PP, PVC
8   Bulk drugs and pharmaceuticals
9   Exploration for oil and gas and their production, transportation and storage
10 Synthetic rubber
11   Asbestos and asbestos products
12 Hydrocyanic acid and its derivatives
13 Primary metallurgical industries (such as production of iron and steel, aluminium, copper, zinc, lead
and ferro alloys) Electric arc furnaces (mini steel plants)
14 Chlor alkali industry
15 Integrated paint complex including manufacture of resins and basic raw materials required in the
manufacture of paints
16 Viscose staple fibre and filament yam
17   Storage batteries integrated with manufacture of oxides of lead and lead antimony alloy
18 All tourism projects between 200 m - 500 m of high water line and at locations with an elevation of
more than 1000 m with investment of more than Rs. 5 crores
19 Thermal power plants
20 Mining projects (with leases more than 5 hectares)
21   Highways projects
22 Tarred roads in Himalayas and or Forest areas
23 Distilleries
24 Raw skins and hides
25   Pulp, paper and newsprint
26 Dyes
27   Cement
28 Foundries (individual)
29 Electroplating
2.2



Govt. of India has made 'Public Hearing' mandatory for environmental clearance of
projects and has laid down the procedure for the same. The proposed KRWSS project
does not fall under any of the project categories listed in Schedule - 1 of the
aforementioned Notification and hence does not require any formal environmental
clearance of the MoEF, Govt. of India.
2.3. Kerala State Water Policy
The Kerala state water policy (1992), in keeping with the fact that the per capita
fresh water availability in the state is one of the lowest in the country (even lower than
that of Rajasthan), has laid stress on the need to hamess and manage the water resources
in the state to the best advantage, maintaining at the same time an ecologically healthy
environment. Nearly 3/4th of the 44 rivers and the major ground water basins in the state
do not have any interstate implications due to which the state may be considered
"hydrologically land locked".
The State's Water Policy, which is complementary to the National Water Policy,
recognises the crucial importance of hydrometeorological data base in effective planning
of water resources of the state, and proposes to establish a centralised facility for
processing, evaluation and storage of hydrometeorological data. The data will be made
available to any agency of the state government engaged in water development projects.
Stressing the need for basinwise integrated land and water resources development
with due regard for environmental and socio-economic impacts, the policy provides for
the establishment of a Water Resources Control Board (WRCB) which will be the apex
body to advise the Government on interstate matters and approve river basin development
plans in the state. In the area of water resources development in the state, drinking water
schemes will get top most priority. In order to prevent adverse environmental impacts
2.3



such as bank instability and associated problems arising out of uncontrolled extraction of
sand from river beds, the government proposes to regulate such extraction.
With a view to maximising water availability and reducing drought impact, the
state proposes to formulate specific short term and long term water management
strategies to arrest and conserve as much rain water as possible, at places wherever it is
feasible. The long term water management strategy for the state, inter alia, includes (i)
massive in situ soil and water conservation measures through contour trenching, check
dams and other watershed management practices, (ii) linking up of irrigation and hydel
reservoirs with urban and rural water supply schemes, (iii) selective and judicious ground
water development through bore wells and tube wells without causing salinity incursion
in coastal belt and drying up of neighbouring household wells, (iv) regulation of ground
water extraction through legislation, etc. The short term water management strategies
include (i) desilting of tanks and ponds, deepening of household and community wells
and construction of contour trenches and check dams, (ii) encouraging drip irrigation and
other water saving irrigation technology, (iii) repairing of non-functional pumps installed
in bore wells and tube wells, and reduction of leakage in existing distribution pipes, (iv)
awareness and training programmes for the public on upkeep and maintenance of
household wells and pumps etc.
The State's Water Policy under scores the need for a regular programme of
continuous monitoring of fresh water bodies for their health and ecology. The data so
generated shall be processed and used in the design and development of water resources
projects. Training of professionals on water management and related matters, and science
and technology inputs in priority areas of activity are other important aspects of the
policy.
The policy has also delineated the institutional arrangements for the
implementation of the policy. A Water Resources Control Board (WRCB) to oversee and
2.4



co-ordinate all policy related activities at state level, a Centralised Hydrological Data
Bank and Data Processing Centre and a separate cell in the Irrigation Department to
organise and coordinate all programmes related to non-conventional fresh water
resources in the state, viz., tanks, ponds, springs etc., would form essential ingredients of
the proposed institutional arrangements.
Water supply and Sanitation Sector Policy:
The state is yet to formulate specific water supply and environmental sanitation
sector policy. For rural water supply and sanitation, targets have been fixed by the
Government of India for a total coverage of rural areas with safe drinking water supply
and 25% coverage of rural households with sanitary latrines by the end of the 7Th Plan
period ended March 1997. The salient features of this policy are:
* Participation by Panchayati Raj Institutions and the community.
* Emphasis on the integration of water supply and environmental sanitation (inclusive
of environmental, domestic and personal hygiene)
*  Emphasis on the managerial, financial and environmental sustainability of facilities
and systems.
*  Emphasis on supporting software features of institutional strengthening, community
development and hygiene promotion.
* Promotion and development of appropriate technologies for water treatment and
distribution and production including the use of traditional systems and methods.
The Government of Kerala now follows this national policy through its adoption
of the Panchayati Raj institutional process with the intended devolution of development
and functional responsibilities to the Panchayat System. This is already underway in its
initial stages supported by the Peoples Campaign initiated by the Government of Kerala
in the second half of 1996. While this represents a change for both water supply and
2.5



environmental sanitation components of the sector, the intention of 'people' being
responsible for the development of their own communities is clear. The Government of
Kerala has already initiated the decentralized planning programme since 1997 in a phased
manner. As a result, the community is even now involved in identification, selection and
implementation and thereafter operation and maintenance of certain water supply
schemes. For sanitation, the Governnent of Kerala have a programme of total sanitation
and health in the state, integrating health education, sanitation and water supply, solid
waste management, waste water disposal, personal hygiene etc. and developing a demand
based approach to promote latrine use.
The objectives and scope of the proposed KRWSS project are in consonance with the
state water policy outlined as above and would greatly promote the water supply and sanitation
sector activities in the project districts consistent with environmental preservation.
2.4. Water Quality Monitoring
There are at least four agencies engaged in water quality monitoring in the state of
Kerala. These are the KWA, the state PCB, the CGWB Thiruvananthapuram and the
Kerala State Ground Water Department. In addition, the CWRDM, Kozhikode and the
Central Water Commission are engaged in the generation of considerable water quality
data in the state. The mandate, objective and scope of water quality monitoring by these
agencies differ considerably.
The CGWB, Kerala Region is monitoring water level and quality in the state and
the U.T. of Mahe through a network of National Hydrograph (NH) Stations, numbering
722 as on April 1997. The depth to water level measurements are made four times in a
year in January, April, August and November while the water quality is monitored from
the water samples collected from the NH stations during April. The number of NH
stations in the four project districts are: Kozhikode-45, Malappuram-64, Palakkad-56 and
2.6



Thrissur-64. Likewise, State Ground Water Department is also engaged in depth to water
level measurements and ground water quality assessment.
The Kerala SPCB, as part of its mandate, has been engaged in ambient water
quality monitoring of all surface water bodies in the state including the coastal waters. In
addition to its own programme of ambient water quality monitoring, it also participates in
programmes sponsored by Government of India. The primary objective of these
monitoring programmes is pollution control and accordingly the frequency of sample
collection and the parameters of analysis are decided.
Under an Indo-Dutch project for institutional strengthening of the Board, the
programme of ambient water quality monitoring was reviewed in order to make it more
systematic and purpose oriented. Accordingly, the monitoring network of the river basins
of Kerala such as Chaliyar, Chalakudy and Bharathapuzha has been redesigned to attain
better correlation between locations of monitoring and sources of pollution so as to
ensure inclusion of all relevant parameters and elimination of those with little
significance. The trend in water quality of these rivers with reference to pollution
parameters of public health significance can provide a valuable basis for identification of
the best locations to tap the rivers for public water supplies as appropriate for the
proposed KRWSS project.
The Central Water Commission, Ministry of Water Resources, GOI has
established a network of gauging stations in most of the rivers in the state and generates
data not only on flows but also on water quality including sediment load.
There exists a fairly well established water quality monitoring system by the
Kerala Water Authority (KWA) for routine analysis and quality control of the KWA
managed water supply systems. A district water quality laboratory is functioning in each
one of the 14 districts in the state. Each laboratory is headed by an executive engineer /
2.7



assistant executive engineer / assistant engineer and has necessary facilities and
equipment for routine physico-chemical and bacteriological analysis of water samples
including a vehicle for sample collection. The lab staff comprises one AEE or AE, one
sanitary chemist, two lab attendants, a bacteriological analyst and one sample taker. The
frequency of sample collection and analysis is as follows.
Sl.        Population size       Frequency of sample    Parameters of analysis
No.                                  collection
1.   Towns with population more  Twice a month       Physical, chemical and
than 1,00,000                                   bacteriological tests from
source to tap
2.   Population 50,000 - 10,000    Once in a month            -do-
3.   Towns/panchayats with        Once in 3 months             -do-
population 20,000 - 50.000
4.   Panchayats with population         -do-                  -do-
5,000 - 20,000
5.   Panchayats with population   Once in six months or        -do-
less than 5,000           on receipt of complaint
of poor quality
The water quality laboratories also undertake testing of chemicals used in water
treatment such as alum, lime and bleaching powder. A sizeable number of posts of
laboratory staff are reported to be vacant. In the existing set up, an effective mechanism
of feed back on the findings of the laboratory is lacking in order to implement necessary
control measures at the source / treatment plant. There is also a need for effective
linkages between the various agencies engaged in water quality monitoring for sharing of
information for mutual benefit.
In most of the surface water treatment plants, bleaching powder is the most
commonly used chemical for disinfection. In many of the remote installations bleaching
powder is added directly at the source / intake well at a frequency which is not conducive
2.8



for continuously maintaining a residual chlorine of 0.5 mg/I. For open dug well schemes
which are maintained by local bodies chlorination is done only once in 6 months.
In the proposed KRWSS project, majority of the water supply schemes will be
based on ground water sources in the form of dug wells or bore wells. Water distribution
will be through elevated service reservoirs piped to the individual households. A reliable,
cost effective system of disinfection of pumped water supplies is through the use of
differential pressure bleaching powder solution dosers. Necessary provision should be
made in all the schemes for installation of such chemical dosers.
With the adoption of demand driven, decentralised planning process in the
proposed project, the beneficiary community / panchayat will take on the total
responsibility for routine operation and maintenance of the water supply facilities, which
was hitherto the mandate of the KWA. For routine water quality testing for the new
schemes the services of the existing district water quality laboratories established by the
KWA or the laboratories of the GWD, CWRDM and state PCB could be utilised. If
necessary, the laboratories could be further strengthened to take on the increased work
load due to the new schemes. A mechanism has to be worked out by which water samples
could be collected regularly by the BC/SO and delivered to the district lab for necessary
testing. The mechanism should also provide for appropriate compensation for this service
by the KWA as per mutually agreed terms. Designated persons from the panchayat
should be initially trained by the district laboratory in the methods of sample collection,
handling and preservation and testing for simple parameters such as residual chlorine.
Following the initial testing of the source water for compliance with the
prescribed water quality standards, seasonal variations in quality should normally be
expected. These variations, however, will not be very significant. Subsequent routine
testing could therefore be restricted to residual chlorine only. This could be done every
2.9



day by the local operator at the service reservoir and at one of the farthest taps from the
reservoir. The farthest tap could be rotated each time of the sampling. And once in 3
months, source water quality could be tested for complete physico-chemical and
bacteriological analysis. Compilation of such data will be useful in assessing the long
term trend in water quality at the source and in the design of future water supply schemes
based on the same source.
The Kerala Water Authority, as part of its strategy for improving the existing institutional
frame work for water quality monitoring and surveillance has proposed a community based 3
tier system which merits consideration. The 3 tier system comprises the panchayat , +2 level
/technical institutions at the grass root level, satellite laboratories at the middle level and the
KWA district laboratory at the apex level. Routine monitoring and control of water quality will
be performed at the lower level using portable kits attached to the panchayat, analysis of more
complex nature and training of water quality monitoring personnel will be taken up by the
satellite laboratories with higher level support from the district laboratory with an appropriate
system of cost sharing. In order to ensure accuracy and reliability of water quality data
generated under the 3 tier system, an exercise in inter laboratory analytical quality control
should be undertaken periodically. The water quality data generated should also be compiled
periodically (at least once in 3 months) and made available for ready access to the public.
The above set up which will have the catchment area as its jurisdiction will also
complement the Information, Education and Communication (EEC) activities of the
panchayats/educational institutions. A pilot scheme of such an institutional set could be taken
2.10



up in each of the project districts and based on the experiences the system could be replicated
on a larger scale.
2.5 State Ground Water Legislation
Realising the fact that the erratic development of ground water taking place in
some areas of the State could create undesirable environmental impacts in those areas, the
State of Kerala has formulated a draft legislation called the Kerala Groundwater (Control
and Regulation) Act 1997 to regulate, control the extraction,use or transport of ground
water and to conserve ground water in the State. The legislation is proposed to be
administered by the creation of a Ground Water Authority which will function under the
overall control and supervision of the Government. The proposed legislation (Annexture 10)
is quite comprehensive in scope and comprises as its main features the following:
i)    Powers to notify areas for control and regulation of
groundwater development,
ii)    Grant of permit to extract and use groundwater in the
notified area,
iii)   Registration of existing wells in the Notified Area,
iv)    Power to alter, amend or vary the terms of the permit or
certificate of registration including its cancellation.
v)    Powers of the Groundwater Authority for operationalising
the Act.
vi)    Offences and penalties, and
vii)   Power to make rules as appropriate for implementation of
the Act.
2.11



In the context of the proposed KRWSA project, this enabling legislation, when enacted,
will help ensure sustainability of groundwater sources for public water supplies and to prevent
undesirable environmental impacts such as mining of ground water and salinity intrusion in
coastal districts of the State. There is an urgent need for enacting this legislation.
2.6 Statutory Requirements of State Pollution Control Board
The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) formed in 1974 administers
relevant Acts to prevent and control pollution, protect the environment and promote
wholesomeness of water, land and air. As per the Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1974 (amended in 1978), the consent of the Board is required to bring into
use a new outlet or to make discharge or to continue the existing discharge of trade
effluent or sewage into any water body, sewer or on land in the State. Though not
explicitly stated in the Act, discussions with the Board Officials indicate that a formal
consent of the Board has to be obtained by KRWSA, if it proposes to let out into any
water body, sewer or on land water treatment plant residues/effluents arising from a
surface water treatment plant. In the proposed project such instances are expected to be
very few, if any, as more than 90% of the schemes will be based on ground water
sources.
2.7. Coastal Zone Management (CZM) Plan of Kerala
In pursuance of the Ministry of Environment & Forests (MOEF), Government of
India (GOI) Notification of 19th February 1991 under the Environment (Protection) Act,
1986, directing the State Governments and the Union Territories to regulate various
activities in their respective coastal areas, the Government of Kerala (GOK) has prepared
2.12



the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for the entire Kerala coast. Within the
framework of the approved plans, all developments and activities within the CRZ viz.,
the 500 metre distance from the high tide line shall be regulated by the State Government
or the local authority appointed for this purpose. The coastal GPs, municipalities and
corporations facing the sea are those influenced by the tidal action may come under the
ambit of the coastal area. None of the GPs in the four districts of the proposed KRWSS
Project comes within this category and hence the provisions of this Plan are not
applicable.
The State Department of Science, Technology and Environment has a mandate to
review all developmental projects of the state with an estimated cost of less than Rs. 50
million for its concurrence from  environmental considerations. The Government,
however, is considering to extend this limit to projects costing beyond Rs.50 million.
2.13



3. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.1. Project Development Objective
The primary development objective of the proposed Integrated Kerala Rural
Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation (KRWSS) project is to assist the GoK in
improving the quality of rural water supply and environmental sanitation service delivery
to achieve sustainable health and hygiene benefits to the rural population through
improvements in water supply and environmental sanitation services which will increase
rural incomes through time savings and income opportunities for women and promote an
all round improvement in quality of life of the rural population.
The secondary objective is to promote the long term sustainability of the rural
water supply and sanitation sector by providing assistance to the GoK to identify and
implement an appropriate policy frame work and a strategic plan.
The above objectives will be achieved through:
(i)   Phased implementation of appropriate policy and institutional reforms.
(ii)   Delivery of demand responsive and sustainable service to the target communities
in selected districts in the state and
(iii) Sectoral development and special studies as required to improve the sector
capability.
3.2. Project Scope and Area
The proposed KRWSS project is to be implemented in about 100 panchayats in
the four northern contiguous districts of Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur and Palakkad
(Fig. 3.1). The total number of schemes will be about 2000. with an average of 20
schemes per panchayat.
3.1



Within the project districts, only those Gramn Panchayats (GP) will be eligible for
inclusion in the project who agree to: (a) follow the project's bottom-up planning
approach; (b) provide 10% counterpart-financing from GP funds; (c) agree to take over
existing KWA water supply schemes in their jurisdiction, initially by GPs and later by the
respective beneficiary committees, once these are formally set up; (d) agree to collect
proposed capital cost contribution for different schemes from beneficiaries; (e) agree to
full responsibility for scheme operation and management by the beneficiary committees;
and (f) agree to 100% 0 & M financing from user charges.
Within the selected Gram Panchayats, only those beneficiary committees will be
eligible for inclusion in the project, who agree to the project rules, same as for the GP
listed above, except for the GP share of counterpart funding.
The project would cover areas drained by the Bharathapuzha and the following
smaller basins: Chaliyar, Kadalundi, Keecheri, Puzhakkal, Kuttiadi, Korapuzha, Kallai,
Tirur and Karuvannur.
3.3. Project Components
The project would include three main components
A.   Design and construction of water supply, sanitation, drainage, watershed
development programme etc.
B.    Institutional capacity building.
C.    State sector development activities.
Part A: The first sub component would include: community mobilisation and
development activities and post construction support to communities. The second sub
component would include planning, design and construction of the following schemes:
3.2



Water supply schemes will include (a) simple technologies (dug wells, hand
pumps, rain water harvesting, small gravity piped systems) and (b) more complex
technologies (single or multi village piped water systems based on ground water
or surface water sources). These schemes involve engineering, construction and
operation of more complex installations such as head works, pumping stations
long pumping main, simple as well as sophisticated water treatment plants,
reservoir filling operations, distribution management, private, domestic and
commercial connections, water meters and other monitoring and control
equipments.
Drainage schemes will be simple open road side gutters with arrangements for
safe disposal of sullage. Where the soil condition permits, simple household soak
pits will be promoted. The design of sullage drainage schemes will require
specialised engineering skills, but construction is relatively simple and can be
done by the village communities with assistance from trained skilled masons.
Household latrines will be based on a successful sanitary latrine model with
leaching pits for onsite disposal of human wastes. The GOI has produced a
manual recommending a range of options by varying the construction material
and superstructure sophistication. Communities can choose the model which most
reflect their need, preference and affordability.
Environmental management schemes will cover: (a) water source protection,
conservation and recharge measures: (b) water quality monitoring system: (c)
household garbage and compost pits and (d) protection of village ponds.
Part B: The first sub-component would cover the institutional development comprising
setting up, testing and scaling up of the new service delivery model to cover all the
3.3



eligible and willing villages in the project districts. It would include investment and
operating costs of the state and district Project Management Units (PMUs), capacity
building programmes for private sector, NGOs and PMUs, monitoring and evaluation
(M&E). The second sub-component would support beneficiary capacity building and the
third sub component will support information management.
Part C: This component will support sector development studies with the objective to
help the state to identify issues affecting sector performance and formulate future policy
and institutional reforms in a phased manner as also preparation of river basin plans for
the project area.
3.4. Project Cost and Financing Plan
The cost summary for the various components of the project is presented in
Table 3.1. The tentative financing plan will be as follows.
Financing share
Agency              U.S.$
(million)
Beneficiary                   8               10
Gram Panchayat                8               10
Government of Kerala          4               5
World Bank                   60               75
Total                         80             100
3.4



Table 3.1
Kerala Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Project Cost Summary
(Local Lakh                                       (US$ Million)
Project Component                Local     Foreign    Total    exhn  B   Cots   Local   Foreign  Total   % Foreign    % Total
Exchange__Base__Costs                         Exchange   Base Costs
A.       Institutional Strengthening
1.  Strengthening of Project Management                1767.8    1718.5   3486.3      49        11       3.9      3.8    7.7       49          l l
2.  Improving Health, Sanitation and Hygiene Education  271.0          -    271.0      -         l        0.6      -      0.6       -
3.  Capacity Building                                    187.5     130.2    317.7    41          l        0.4     0.3    0.7       41
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening               2226.3    1848.7   4075.0    45          12       4.9      4.1    9.0       45         12
B.       Developing Water, Sanitation and Other
Infrastructure
I .  Community Development Support                     3512.6      -       3512.6      -         l1      7.8       -      7.8       -           l1
2.  Survey and Engineering Design Support               924.2      -        924.2      -         3        2.0      -      2.0       -          3
3.  Construction of Schemes                            3918.0      -       3918.0      -        12        8.7      -      8.7       -          12
4.  Construction of Physical Schemes
Water Supply Schemes                              12567.4      -      12567.4     -         38       27.8      -     27.8       -         38
Environmental Sanitation                           4600.0      -       4600.0     -         14       10.2      -     10.2       -         14
Watershed Activities                                900.0      -        900.0     -         3        2.0       -     2.0        -          3
Subtotal Construction of Physical Schemes         18067.4      -      18067.4     -         55       40.0      -     40.0       -         55
5.  Women Development Initiatives                       1000.0     -       1000.0      -         3        2.2      -      2.2       -          3
Subtotal Developing Water, Sanitation and other   27422.2      -      27422.2     -         84       60.7      -     60.7       -         84
infrastructure
C.       Statewide Sector Development
I .  Water and Sanitation                               199.6      174.9    374.5     47         l        0.4     0.4    0.8       47
2.  River Basin Planning                                 237.1     655.4    892.5     73         3        0.5      1.5    2.0       73         3
Subtotal Statewide Sector Development               436.7     830.3   1267.0    66          4         1.0     1.8    2.8       66          4
Total BASELINE COSTS                              30085.2    2679.0  32764.2      8        100       66.6     5.9    72.5       8         100
Physical Contingencies                             2217.2        6.8   2224.0      -        7        4.9      0.0    4.9        -          7
Price Contingencies                                5637.3    4 8 0. 8   6118.1    8         19       2.3      0.3    2.7       13          4
Total Project Costs   37939.7    3166.6  41.106.2  8       125       73.8     6.3    80.1      8          110
3.5



3.5. Institutional Arrangement
The Department of Irrigation and Water Supply, GoK has been identified as the
nodal department for the proposed KRWSS project. The institutional model for the
project depicted in Fig.3.2 comprises four main partners: The Project Management
Unit (PMU), Support Organisations (SOs), Gram Panchayats (GPs) and Beneficiary
Committees (BCs). The Project Management Unit (PMU) set up by the GoK has the
mandate to plan and complete project preparation and implementation ensuring
appropriate linkages with the existing sectoral institutions. The District Project
Management Units (DPMUs) are responsible for the project management at the district
level, with support from the state level PMU.
The PMU has been constituted with an executive committee (apex body) headed
by the Secretary Irrigation (Chairman) and a staff secretariat headed by a Director
supported by higher level staff, support staff and consultants for various activities. The
PMU will be assisted in its function at the district level by 2 District Project Management
Units (DPMUs) one each at Kozhikode and Thrissur. The organisational set up of PMU
is shown in Fig.3.3. Each DPMU will be staffed with higher level staff and support staff
SOs and consultants will be employed to assist the PMU, GPs and BCs in
planning and management of various project activities. The GPs will (a) be a focal point
for project activities in the GP area, (b) ensure collection of beneficiary contributions in
accordance with the project rules; (c) provide its share of counterpart funds; (d) receive
project funds and pass them on to BCs for implementation and (e) ensure people's
participation in the project,  especially of the socially disadvantaged groups. The
beneficiary committees will be responsible for upgrading  their RWSS facilities,
3.6



providing their part of the capital cost contribution, managing the 0 & M of the improved
facilities, and levying and collecting sufficient user charges.
Fig. 3.2. Proposed Institutional Setup for KRWSS Project
STATE GOVERNMENT
IRRIGATION DEPARTMENT
KRWSA
PMU
|   DPMU    l  l    SO       l      l    GPs    l       l    BC .
l   l   t             l      l  ~~~~~~(VwS(r)   l      ST.C) 
3.7



Fig. 3.3. Organogram for the KRWSS Project Management Unit (PMU)
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Chairnan
Vice-Chairman
PROJECTDIRETRM .SP
;Persoanl  Assistantj
OPERATIONS/ M & E                                                     MIS UNIT
UNIT                              HRD                          /                                         TECHNOLOGY   FINANCE & ADMN.
MIS Specialist
Unit Co-ordinator (1)            COMMUNICATION                       Computer Progranmner (1)   UNIT                                 UNIT
M  & E Specialist (1)                                                Data Entry Operators (3)
:.    UNIT                                                                  Unit Co-ordinator (1)        Finance Controller (1)
Prniprt (ff'rpr
.      Unit Co-ordinator (l)
HRD Specialist
Women Dev. Specialist
.............................. .......... ......... .............. .. ..... ............................. ............................ .........................................................................
DPMUs                                                                                                                              SUPPORT STAFF
Secretary (2)
(2 Units)                                                                                                                             Driver (I)
Guard /Peon (1I)
3.8
e         ,                                                                                                           .         .



3.6. Project Implementation Schedule and Scheme Cycle
The project is proposed to be implemented over a six year period (July, 2000 to
June, 2006). It will be implemented in four batches (10, 20, 25 and 25 GPs in successive
batches). Overall implementation schedule and phases of scheme cycle are given in
Table 3.2. Scheme cycle for each batch will have four phases: pre-planning (5 months),
planning (7 months), implementation (7 months) and post-implementation (3 months).
Implementation phase for more complex water supply schemes will be 18 months,
spanning two dry seasons. Thus, the scheme cycle for each batch will span over 21 or 33
months. Each batch is scheduled to begin in December of the first four years.
Each phase will have discrete activities, processes and outputs which are being
further developed. The key outputs in each phase are: (a) pre-planning phase-selection of
GPs and SOs, (b) planning phase formation of Beneficiary Committees and their capacity
building, choice of technology, finalization of detailed project proposal; signing of
implementation phase agreement among GP, BC and PMU; community contributions
raised; (c) implementation phase - construction of schemes and capacity building in
scheme operation; and (d) post-implementation - stabilizing beneficiary management of
scheme operations. Scheme cycle will be the most important tool in effective planning
and monitoring of project implementation.
3.7. Expected Benefits of the Project
Communities in 100 villages would directly benefit from improved water supply
and environmental sanitation services through time savings in fetching water, better
health from more and cleaner water, improved health knowledge and better hygiene
practices. Women would be the primary beneficiaries. In 'addition to the direct benefits
mentioned above, they would benefit through being full members of the Village Water
and Sanitation Committees responsible for the project at the community level and
through specific components designed to empower them and provide them with
additional income opportunities.
3.9



Table 3.2
KRWSS Project - Percentage Implementation Plan of Schemes - 4 Batches
Number of |11999 |2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
| Panchayat
With infiltration/WTP
Batch I          20      5     45      30      20
Batch II         30             5      50      20      25
Batch III        30                    5       35      25      35
Batch IV         20                             5      40      25      30
With Dug Well, Bore Well and Spring Protection
Batch I          20      5     65      30
Batch II         30             5      65      30
Batch III        30                    5       65      30
Batch IV         20                             5      40      25      30
Total yearly %          1.25   15   23.125   22.5    20    10.525    7.5
Drainage:
Batch I          20             10     10      30      50
Batch II         30                    20      30      30      20
Batch II         30                            20      20      30      20
Batch IV         20                            20      20       30      20
Total yearly %                 2.5    7.5      25      30      20       15
Sanitation
Batch I          20             25     25      25      25
Batch II         30                    25      25      25       25
Batch III        30                    20      20      20       20      20
Batch IV         20                                    30       30      10
Total yearly %                 6.25    17.5    25      25   | 13.75    7.5
Water Conservation
Batch I          20             10     10      30               50
Batch I|  30                           20      30       30      20
Batch III        30                            20      20       30      30
Batch IV         20                            20       20      30      20
Total yearly %  |      |_ | 2.5  | 7.5  | 2.5  |  30   |  20  |  15
3.10



The private sector and NGOs would benefit from the opportunity the
project provides them to implement their own mandate of sustainable service delivery
to larger population and to become a partner in development with the government.
Their participation would provide additional employment opportunities to the skilled
technicians and professional personnel in the project area.
The Kerala Government would benefit from an increased institutional capacity to
facilitate delivery of sustainable services due to promotion and development of additional
partners in the communities, NGOs and private sector.
The Kerala Government's financial position would improve because of cost
sharing by the beneficiaries, which would enable the Government to provide financial
support to a larger number of communities in lesser time, because the community's
assumption of full responsibility for operation and maintenance would reduce the state's
recurring expenditure budget, and the presumption of the longer life of the investments
due to better O&M would reduce the capital replacement interval.
The cost recovery and institutional reforms promoted under the project would
eventually bring similar benefits to rural communities throughout the state.
3.11



4. BASLINE ENVIRONMENTAL STATUS
4.1. Physical Environment
Location and Physiography
Kerala is one of the smallest states in India (38.863 sq.km) covering merely
1.3 per cent of the total area of the country and is situated between 818' and 1248'N
latitude and 74052' and 7722' E longitude. Flanked by Karnataka in the north and Tamil
Nadu in the east, Kerala is an enchanting strip of land ensconced between the Arabian
Sea and the Westem Ghats. The state comprises 14 districts divided into 61 taluks
(Fig.4.1). The largest among the 14 districts is Idukki (5019 sq.km) and the smallest is
the coastal district of Alappuzha (1414 sq.km).
Based on its physical features, the state can be divided into three natural divisions,
namely - the sandy coastal region (<7.6 m above MSL) with is extensive coconut groves,
paddy fields, backwaters and the sea; the midland region (7.5 m - 75 m above MSL)
made up of fertile reddish hills and valleys that grow most of Kerala's agricultural crops;
peaks, extensive ridges and ravines of the Westem Ghats (>75 m above MSL), where
sandalwood, tea, coffee, rubber and most of Kerala's exotic spices are grown.
The Westem Ghats which form a solid, contiguous mountain wall, seem to
dominate the topography of Kerala. The 2.695 m high Anai Mudi peak here is the highest
point in South India. The Ghats act as a natural barrier during the South West monsoon,
thereby ensuring a steady rainfall. More than forty rivers spring from the mountains and
taking a round about route, they either join the backwaters and lagoons or directly merge
with the sea.
4.1



Kozhikode district lies between latitude 115' and 11050' N longitude 75030' and
76015' E and is surrounded by the Arabian Sea in the West, Wayanad district in the East,
Kannur district in the North and the Malappuram district in the South. Administratively it
is divided into 3 taluks namely Kozhikode, Quilandy and Badagara and comprises.
12 blocks and 103 villages.
Topographically the district has 3 distinct regions: the sandy coastal belt with an
area of 362.85 sq.km, the rocky highlands formed by the hilly portion of the westem
ghats having an area of 625.81 sq.km and lateritic midland of 1344.5 sq.km sandwiched
between the coastal belt and the highlands.
Thrissur district of Kerala lies in the central part of the state between 10O' and
10045' N latitude and 7600' and 7652' E longitude with an aerial extent of 3032 sq.km.
The district has five taluks viz., Chavakkad, Talappalli, Thrissur, Kodungallur and
Mukundapuram comprising 7 municipalities and 99 panchayats under 18 community
development blocks (including a small portion of Parakkadavu block of Eranakulam
district).
Physiographically, the district is sub divided into three parallel zones viz., the
coastal plains, the midland and the highlands. The coastal region has an area of 46544 ha
and covers 51 revenue villages/towns. The low-lying tracts (0.5-1 m below MSL), the
kol lands' are also located in this region. The midland region covering an area of 154860 ha
comprises 171 revenue villages / towns. The region is characterised by numerous well
defined small cultivated watersheds (elas). The highland region lies along the eastern part
of the midland and covers a total area of 98157 ha. The region is characterised by rugged
hill ranges of Western Ghats. The eastern highland exhibits a typical topography with
steep hills dissected by deep 'V' shaped valleys drained by youthful rivers. Most of the
reservoirs are located in this region.
4.2



The land cover status of the area comprises fourteen classes which include
coconut (495.48 sq. km ), paddy (393.17 sq.km), mixed plantations (486.84 sq.km),
rubber (693.16 sq.km), teak (160.9s sq.km) etc. With the diverse agroclimatic conditions
brought about by the natural physiographic divisions, a wide variety of crops such as rice,
coconut, arecanut, pulses, pepper, tapioca, rubber and fruits like banana and cashew are
grown in the district.
Palakkad is the second largest district of Kerala state with an area of 4480 sq.km
and lies between longitudes 7602' and 7655'E and latitudes 10020' and 1114'N. The
district with an area of 4480 sq.km comprises five taluks, viz. Ottapalam, Mannarghat,
Palakkad, Chithur and Alathur.
Geology
The state is mainly comprised of crystalline rocks such as charnockites,
khondalites, gneisses, and Dharwar schists of precambrian age. The charnockites are
exposed in all districts, khondalites and gneisses are concentrated in the southern part of
the state and Dharwar schists and genisses are exposed in the northern part of the state
whereas intrusive granites and dolemites occur in some parts of the state only. Pegmatite
and quartz veins cut across all the rock forrnations all over the state.
Late Tertiary sedimentary formations, equivalent to the Rajahmundry sandstone
form a linear coastal outcrop to the north of Kannur and from Kottayam to beyond
Thiruvananthapuram in the south. These, together with alluvium, cover an area of about
6000 km2. The sedimentaries are over 300 m thick in the widest part of the outcrop
between Sherthalai and Karunagappally. The top of the beds is 70 m below MSL at
Kochi and rises to 80 m above MSL south of Thiruvananthapuram. They are of riverine
origin, and comprise, from bottom to top (i) Vaikom beds of over 100 m thickness of
sandstone-clay with four lenticular granular horizons, (ii) Quilon beds of fossiliferous
4.3



limestone, marl, sand and clay of about 70 m thickness and (iii) Varkkallai beds of about
80 m thickness of two persistent interconnected gritty sandstone horizons with
interbedded clay and lignite. The Quilon beds do not persist eastward, and thin out 7 km
short of the eastern boundary of the sedimentaries.
Laterites cover wide areas in Kerala. All along the midland region it forms as a
residual deposit due to weathering of either cystalline or sedimentary rocks. The
thickness of the laterite generally varies from 5 to 8 m. Plateau laterite of greater
thickness is seen in Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur districts. Lateritic soil is
predominant in the midland regions.
Alluvium overlying laterite is 14 to 20 m thick. It extends all along the coast from
Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram. It is essentially sand, clay and silt.
Rainfall
The average annual rainfall of the state is estimated at 3000 mm. However, the
spatial and temporal distribution pattern is mainly responsible for the frequent floods and
droughts in Kerala. The average annual rainfall in the lowland of Kerala ranges from 900
mm in the south to 3500 mm in the north. In the midland, annual rainfall ranges from
1400 mm in the south to 4000 mm in the north. In the highlands, annual rainfall varies
from 2500 mm in the south to about 6000 mm in the north. About 60% of the annual
rainfall in the state is received during the South-West monsoon (June-August), 25%
during North-East monsoon (September - November) and the remaining during the
summer months.
There are certain areas in the Attappady valley with only 600 mm annual average
rainfall. Generally, the high ranges receive more rainfall than the other zones, mainly due
to a phenomenon called orography-hills influencing rainfall. Areas on the eastern side of
4.4



the Western Ghats have less rainfall and are rightly called 'rain-shadow' areas; the rainfall
in regions close to the gaps, such as Palakkad is also comparatively less due to the escape
of moisture-laden clouds through the gaps. While the temporal distribution of rainfall
depends on the monsoon winds to a great extent, the spatial distribution depends on the
configuration of land, especially the undulating topography of the ghats.
Climate
Kerala enjoys a balmy weather almost all through the year. It is neither too cold in
the winter months nor too hot in summer. The warmer (>32C) months are March-May
and September-October. Mid-May to August is the monsoon period, and one can expect a
wet time. In addition, June is also a windy month.
4.2. Water Environment
Surface Water Resources
There are 44 rivers in Kerala state with a minimum length of 15 km. Of these, 41
originate in the Western Ghats, flow towards the west and join the Lakshadweep sea. The
remaining three also originate in the Western Ghats within the state and drain into the
Bay of Bengal.
The rivers of Kerala are monsoon-fed and fast-flowing. According to an estimate
(PWD, 1974), the total runoff of the rivers of the state amounts to about 77,900 Mm3, of
which 70,200 Mm3 is from Kerala catchments and the remaining 7700 Mm3 is from
Karnataka and Tamil Nadu catchments. The estimated water potential of the river basins
of the state is given in Table 4.1. The available per capita fresh water resources in Kerala
is less than the national average. It is even less than that of the dry states like Rajasthan,
Karnataka, Gujarat and Maharashtra as can be seen from Table 4.2.
4.5



Table 4.1
Water Potential in the River Basins of Kerala
Annual yield (MCM)               Annual utilisable yield (MCM)
Name of Basin
Total     In Kerala     Outside      Total       In Kerala    Outside
Manjeswar-Uppala                   698          309          389         379          106          273
Shiriya                            1337         620          717         973          358          615
Chandragiri-Mogral                3964         1718         2246        3129         1218         1911
Nileswar- Karingode                1710        1356          354        1238          937          301
Kavvayi - Peruvamba                1143        1143          Nil        603          603           Nil
Ramapuram
Kuppam                             1516        1236         280         1024         786          238
Valapattanam                      4092         2784         1308        2938         1823         1115
Anjarakandy                        986          986          Nil         503         503           Nil
Tellicherry                        251          251          Nil         122          122          Nil
Meha                               803          803          Nil        445          445           Nil
Kuttiyadi                          1626        1626          Nil        1015         1015          Nil
Chaliyar - Korappuzha -           7775         7135         640         3160         2616         544
Kallayi - Kadalundi
Tirur                              165          165          Nil         60           60           Nil
Bharathapuzha                     7478         6540          938        4146         3394         797
Keecheri - Puzhakkal               1024         1024         Nil         345          345          Nil
Karuvannur                         1887        1887          Nil         963          963          Nil
Chalakkudy                        3121         2541          580        2033         1539         494
Periyar                           11607        11341         266        8232         8004          228
Muvattupuzha                       3814        3814          Nil        1812         1812          Nil
Meenachil                          2349        2349          Nil        1110         1110          Nil
Manimala                           1829         1829         Nil        1108         1108          Nil
Pamba                             4641         4641          Nil        3164         3164          Nil
Achencovil                         2383        2383          Nil         1249         1249         Nil
Kallada - Pallickal                2270        2270          Nil         1368         1368         Nil
lthikkara                          761          761          Nil         429          429          Nil
Vamanapuram - Ayroor Mamom         1324        1324          Nil         889          889          Nil
Karamana                           836          836          Nil         462          462          Nil
Neyyar                             433          433          Nil         229          229          Nil
Kabbini*                           4333        4333          Nil        4333         4333          Nil
Bhavani*                           1019         1019         Nil         1019         1019         Nil
Pambar*                            708          708          Nil         709          708          Nil
Total                     77883       70165          Nil       49188         42672        6516
MCM - Million Cubic Meter
Source : Water Resources of Kerala, PWD, 1974;             * East flowing
4.6



Table 4.2
Per capita Water Resources in Litres / Head / Day
Rain           Surface water       Ground water
India                    15,600              2,612               1,280
Karnataka                19,100              2,103                810
Maharashtra              17,600              1,343               1,500
Rajasthan                16,000              32,807               790
Gujrat                   13,100              2,291                910
Kerala                   12,500              1,652                780
Tamilnadu                 7,140              1,443               1,030
Source    Dr.P.Basak, Water Resources of Kerala - Myths and Realities, Water Scenario of
Kerala, State Committee on Science, Technology and Environment, Government
of Kerala.
The four project districts, viz., Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur and Palakkad
fall essentially under three river basins, the Chaliyar, the Chalakudy and the Bharathapuzha
basins. Details on the water resources of these basins and their utilisation are briefly
presented hereunder.
The Chaliyar river basin ranks 3rd largest in the aimual water discharge and 4th
largest in catchment area among the 44 rivers of Kerala. The basin mainly covering
Kozhikode and Malappuram districts extends over a distance of 60 km from north to
south and 90 km from east to west. Maximum flow in the river occurs at Areacode station
4.7



during the months of June to December (total 2047.87 Mm3 in 1991 and 3593.52 Mm3 in
1992). Minimum flow is generally observed from January to May at the same station
(Total 1.46 Mm3 in 1991 and 18.50 Mm3 in 1992). The river is a major source of
irrigation water to Malappuram and Kozhikode districts and serves as the source of
Kozhikode city water supply. A regulator cum bridge across the river Chaliyar at
Kavanakkal near Oorkadavu is nearing completion to prevent salinity intrusion into the
Kozhikode water supply intake at Koolimadu. Investigations for 3 hydroelectric projects
in river Chaliyar have been completed. A large number of major/medium irrigation
schemes are proposed utilising 2239 Mm3 of water from the Chaliyar river to provide
irrigation to 87601 ha of land.
The Chalakudy river originating from the Anamalai hills of Western Ghats at an
elevation of 1250 m above MSL, in its initial course passes through thick forests and after
many falls reaches the plain at Kanjirappally and finally empties into the right arm of
Periyar river in Emakulam district. The river basin with a total area of 1704 sq.km is
located in Thrissur, Palakkad and Ernakulam districts of Kerala. The river flows mainly
through Thrissur district. The Chalakudy main irrigation project as also 27 minor
irrigation projects are located in this river. The downstream of the river is extensively
used as a source of a few rural and urban water supply schemes. There are two hydel
power projects one each at Peringalkuthu and Sholayar. In the mid stretch of the river
there are a few rural and urban water supply schemes in addition to a few major industrial
establishments which discharge their effluents into the river.
4.8



The river basin has good ground water potential. While in the high ranges sub soil
water is tapped through springs, in the mid region large diameter dug wells and high
yielding tube wells are used.
The Bharathapuzha river originates in the Anamalai mountain ranges in
Coimbatore district of Tamil Nadu, enters the Kerala state crossing the Palakkad gap and
runs a distance of 250 km before draining into the Lakshadweep sea. The river basin, the
largest in Kerala with a basin area of 6186 sq.km flows through Palakkad. Thrissur and
Malappuram districts. More than 50% of the river basin lies in Palakkad district and 80%
of the district is covered by the basin. Maximum flow in the river is found to occur during
the months of June to December and minimum flow during January to May.
The river basin has good ground water potential which has not been fuilly utilised
due to forest cover and hilly terrain. The limited extraction is through springs in
highlands and dug wells and tube wells in the midland and coastal lands. The ground
water potential of Malappuram, Palakkad and Thrissur districts are shown in Table 4.3.
4.9



Table 4.3
District - wise utilisable groundwater resources, draft and balance for
Kerala State as on 31-03-19921
Utilisable   Net Draft    Balance resources
S.No          District          resources in     MCm           available for
MCM                     irrigation in MCM
1.   Trivandrum                   209.7          51.3           158.4
2.   Quilon                       327.0          70.9           301.1
3.   Pathanamthitta               317.8          32.4           285.4
4.   Alleppey                     486.2          45.0           441.2
5.   Kottayam                     402.9          40.7           362.2
6.   Idukki                       389.3          19.2           370.1
7.   Eranakulam                   638.0         134.1           503.9
8.   Trichur                      709.9         153.6           536.3
9    Palaghat                     752.7          78.6           674.1
10.  Malappuram                   548.5          100.3          448.2
11.   Calicut                     416.1          53.3            362.8
12.   Wyanad                      360.9          17.8            343.1
13.   Cannanore                   623.2          90.7            532.5
14.  Kasargod                     359.6          118.3           241.3
Total              6586.8         1006.2          5580.6
MCM - Million Cubic Meter
District wise utilizable groundwater is the annual replenishable recharge of the district phreatic aquifer
(including rainfall, topography, hydrogeology etc).
4.10



The highlands are mostly reserved and protected forest with tea and coffee as
main cultivation. In the midland coconut, rubber and pepper are grown and in the lowland
region paddy and coconut are cultivated.
Surface Water Quality
During the course of its travel, the Chaliyar river receives considerable amount of
pollution load. M/s.Grasim Industries Ltd. situated at Mavoor, 25 km upstream from the
river mouth depends solely on the river for its water needs and as a sink for its
wastewater discharge with a BOD load of 1110 kg/day. A large number of small and
medium scale industries are also located on the banks of the estuarine portion of the river.
The river also receives domestic wastes and also fertiliser and pesticide run off from
agricultural lands which it irrigates.
A number of polluting industries located in the Chalakudy river basin
contribute a BOD load of 224 kg/day. Apart from these, there are a large number of
small industries which also contribute to the pollution load in the river. However, the
pollution load from these industries is not known. The details of major townships and the
pollution load generated from these towns are shown in Table 4.4. It is estimated that
7696 kg of BOD is being discharged into the river every day from these townships. The
pilgrim centre at Muringoor and the tourist spot Athirampalli water fall also contribute to
the pollution load in the river.
A large number of industries - large, medium and small scale - have come up in
the Bharathapuzha river basin especially in Palakkad district. The details of major
townships/urban centres (none has waste water collection and treatment system) and the
4.11



Table 4.4
Details of Pollution due to Domestic Waste in the Chalakudi River Basin
Area in sq.   No. of                    Qt' of
Pais  ayat      km       households   Population   sewage m3/  BODkg/day
day
Chalakudy       20.3         11862        60258        1200          950
Mala            28.35        10325        55481        1100          870
Koraty          23.42        8451         40257         821          812
Kodakara        21.29        7415         36951         870          719
Aloor           34.39        8526         45217         985          920
Kadukuty        17.63        5142         35214         520          620
Pariyaram       27.19        6352         25147         812          452
Vettilappara     489         3200         11458         420          312
Melur           23.06         725         26584         687          615
Kodassery       93.30        8200         32651         950          680
Total                                                  8365          6920
BOD - Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand
Source    Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network -   Chalakudy River Basin
(Sep. 1999). Indo-Dutch Project, Kerala State Pollution Control Board,
Thiruvananthapuram
4.12



pollution load from these centres are given in Table 4.5. (Basis : per capita sewage
contribution 20 lpd and BOD load 0.95 kg/m3). A wide spectrum of pesticides are used in
the three basin distrits (Table 4.6). Details of major industries along with the pollution
load contributed by them are given in Table 4.7.
Sand extraction along the banks of the river is common in Parali, Shoranur and
Pattambi Panchayats, and this activity contaminates the river water making it unfit for
drinking and bathing without treatment.
The Periyar, one of the largest river systems of Kerala, is highly polluted with
effluents discharged from major industries located on the banks. These industries
discharge hazardous pollutants like phosphates, sulphides, ammonia N, fluorides, heavy
metals, and insecticides into the downstream reaches of the river. Apart from major
industries, coir retting by conventional methods also adds to the pollution in the Periyar
estuary. A temporary barrage is constructed in summer at Pathalam in one of the
branches of Periyar to prevent salinity intrusion into the upstream reaches. The enormous
quantities of wastewater discharged daily into this branch of the river (around 10
million m3) is not flushed out, leading to stagnation and pollution buildup to high toxic
levels. This water is found to be highly acidic (pH 1.9), loaded with ammonia, fluorides
and phosphates, resulting in massive fish kills.
The Vembanad wetland system is a receptacle of a large variety of industrial
effluents, domestic sewage from Cochin and a string of small towns nearby. Cochin city
alone generates 2550 million litres/day of waste water that directly enters into the
backwater untreated. Total dissolved solid content of water in this zone is as high as
4.13



Table 4.5
Details of Major Townships Contributing Pollution Load in the
Bharathapuzha River Basin
Sl.No.    Name of the    Area, km2    No. of   Population   Discharge   BOD load
block                  household                m3/day      kg/day
I    Shoranur           32.28       7601       39500        791         752
2    Mannarkkad         63.38       7790       45422        908         863
3    Palakkad            26.6      22923      123289       2466        2343
4     Ottapalam          32.66      7938       44186        884         840
5    Pattambi            15.84      3521       22108        442         420
6    Pudussery          122.84      9090       41710        834         793
7    Chittur -           14.71      6292       32048        641         609
Thathamangalam
8    Hemambikanagar         3       3306       15847        317         301
9    Puthupariyaram      19.93      4793       24808        496         471
10    Marutharoad         9.52      3100       16089        322         306
11    Koduvayur          10.53      3400       17647        535          335
12    Alathur            19.62       440       23498        470         447
13    Ponnani             9.32      6329       51770        1035         984
14    Kuttipuram         31.31      5654       371156        743         706
15    Tanur              19.49      6942       54243        1085        1031
16    Thrithala          22.78       3804      22312         446         424
17    Parli              30.27       5695      29640         593         563
18    Vadakkenchery      37.88       6030       31470        629         598
19    Malampuzha        183.42       2709       12860        257         244
Total                                         14652        13923
BOD - Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand
Source : Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network - Bharathapuzha River Basin
(Sep. 1999). Indo-Dutch Project - Kerala State Pollution Control Board,
Thiruvananthapuram.
4.14



Table 4.6
Average Yearly Consumption of Pesticides in kgs in the Project Districts
for the Year 1998
SI.No. Name of pesticide      Thrissur          Palakkad     Malappuram
1.    Aldrin                      0               0              0
2.    BHC- 10%                   3700           3780            2560
3.    BHC - 50%                  10490         3650.7           240
4.    Carbaryl                   2420           4860           2870
5.    Carbofuran                126780          88140          59710
6.    Cypermethion                 0              0              0
7.    Chloropyriphos              40             480             0
8.    Dichlorobos                1950            379            54.6
9.    Dimethoate                 5760           4270            2210
10.   Endosulfan                 1215           2510            1690
11.   Ethion                       0              0              0
12.   Femithrothion               380            356             37
13.   Fenthion                     0             460             0
14.   Fenvelerate                287.8          108.5           410
15.   Formothion                 . 0             421            2.4
16.   Malathion                  6460           6300            1840
17.   Methyl-parathion            410            632            460
18.   Monochlorofos              44357          6980            1730
19.   Phenthiote                 580.4           51             160
20.   Permithrin                 3200            1700           600
21.   Phorate                    2670            7820           6910
22.   Phosolon                    30,             0               0
23.   Phosphamide                6887            1700          1200.5
24.   Pyrithron                  3246            620             480
25.   Qunalphin                  10224           6680            774
26.   Caplan                       60             0               0
4.15



Table 4.6 Contd.,
Sl.No. Name of pesticide      Thrissur          Palakkad      Malappuram
27.   Carbondizam                  0             1620            8
28.   Copper oxy chloride         711            1320           1866
29.   Copper sulphate            8626           2000            170
30.   Ediphinphos                  0              0              0
31.   Mancozeb                   3129           1540            253
32.   Nickel chloride             16              0              0
33.   Sulphur                     260            100             0
34.   Zineb                        0              0              0
35.   Ziram                       326            234             94
36.   Thiram                       0              0              0
37.   Anilophos                    0              0              0
38.   Beta chlor                  540             0             600
39.   Benathiocarb                 0             480             0
40.   Diuran                       0              0             360
41.   2-4-D                      3260             0             590
42.   Glyphosate                  7.8            26              0
43.   Paraquart                    0              0             560
44.   Propanil                    17             46             3200
45.   Bromadiolene                265             0              0
46.   Ethylene di bromide        1500             0              0
47.   Methyl bromide              860             0              0
48.   Varfurin                    550             0              0
49.   Zinc phosphide             2200            3705             0
50.   Ethipon                      0              0              0
Source  Ambient Water Quality Monitofing Network - Bharathapuzha River Basin (Sep. 1999).
Indo-Dutch Project - Kerala State Pollution Control Board, Thiruvananthapuram.
4.16



Table 4.7
Details of Major Industries Contributing Pollution in the
Bhairathapuzha River Basin
Qty of effluent   Total pollution
Sl.No.  Name of the Industry                 discharged,     load, BOD
m3/day         kg/day
NM/S Premier Breweries                       320             600
2    M/S Prima Industries                     100              30
3    M/S Rubfila International (P) Ltd.,      170              51
4    M/S Co-Operative Sugars                  280             287
5    M/S Palakkad Rubber Industries            70              70
6    M/S Co-operative Rubber Marketing        150            10045
Society
7    M/S Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala            60              60
8    MIS Chaya Industries                     500             150
9    M/S Teak Tex Processing Complex Ltd.     1500            450
10    M/S Super Star Distilleries              90              30
Total                       3240           11773
BOD - Bio-chemical Oxygen Demand
Source : Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network - Bharathapuzha River Basin
(Sep. 1999). Indo-Dutch Project - Kerala State Pollution Control Board,
Thiruvananthapuram.
4.17



53750 mg/litre during summer and comes down to 160 mg/litre during the rainy season
when the flushing is much better. The existing sewage treatment plant in Cochin covers
only a small fraction of the population. The pollution load from Cochin corporation and
Alappuzha town are 1,95,547 kg/day of BOD and 64,237 kg/day of BOD respectively.
Annual fertilizer consumption in Kuttanad is: 8409 tonnes of N, 5044 tonnes of P and
6786 tonnes of K. Pesticides/fungicides/weedcides are applied to the tune of about 500
tonnes/year.
According to a study conducted under an Indo-Dutch programme on the Kuttanad
water balance, about 25000 tonnes of fertilisers and 500 tonnes of highly toxic pesticides
are used in Kuttanad's 55,000 ha of paddy fields annually. A major portion of these
agrochemicals reaches the water bodies as runoff (Indo-Dutch Project report, 1989). The
report indicated the presence of DDT in Pampa river (4000 ng/l). Lindane in
Thanneemukkam (6000 ng/l) and Endosuphan in Vembanad lake (122 ng/l) and
Manimala river (1114 ng/l).
Salinity Intrusion
The short, fast-flowing, monsoon-fed rivers of Kerala often encounter salinity
intrusion into their lower stretches during the summer months. When the fresh water flow
reduces, two major problems are encountered in these water bodies : (i) salinity
propagates more into the interior of the river and (ii) the flushing of the system becomes
less effective. Both these aspects have an impact on irrigation, drinking and industrial
water supply schemes situated in the downstream reaches (James, 1996).
Based on the studies conducted with the help of mathematical models, it is found
that the salinity in the Beypore estuary propagates to a distance of 24 km upstream,
thereby creating problems to the water supply scheme to the Kozhikode corporation area
4.18



(James and Sreedharan, 1983); the flushing time in summer from a distance of 20 km
from the mouth is 20 days and more, creating pollution concentration in the lower
stretches. Problems of salinity intrusion are also encountered in the Periyar, Meenachi
and Kuttiyadi rivers, which have been studied in detail (James, 1985).
The present measures for preventing salinity intrusion into the intake points of
drinking water supply schemes is by the construction of temporary barrages, which
prevent the flow and create ecological problems, especially concentration of pollutants
upstream of the obstruction. Areas upstream of Thanneermukkom barrage in the
Vembanad and Pathalam barrage in the Periyar are typical examples (James, 1 996a).
Hydrogeology
Coastal Region
The groundwater in the coastal region predominantly occurs under water table
conditions in the alluvial deposits of recent age, and these aquifers are normally a few
metres in thickness. Open wells of diametres of about 2 m are the common groundwater
extraction structures. In some places the sandy aquifer may extend to depths of a few tens
of metres. In such places, it is suitable to construct filter point wells.
In some stretches, groundwater occurs in the upper tertiary sedimentary
formations of Vaikom, Kollam and Varkkalai beds capped by laterites. In these areas, the
groundwater occurs under artesian conditions. The piezometric surface of these confined
aquifers has been found to vary from 0.5to 14.3 m above MSL. The wells with positive
heads have a free flow of 270 - 360 Ipm. The Vaikom aquifers having thickness of 25 to
79 m are the highest groundwater potential aquifers in the coastal region. The
sedimentary tract between Kollam and Sherthalai is suitable for medium capacity
tubewells.
4.19



Midland Region
In this region, groundwater is commonly encountered under water table
conditions in the lateritic aquifers of about 10 to 20 m thickness. Dugwells of relatively
large diameter of about 4 to 6 m are the common groundwater extraction structures in
midland. The laterites are underlain by weathered rock and the two are usually separated
by a lithomargic clay zone which is prone to caving and hence in such formation, laterite
brick lining or concrete rings are necessary for open wells.
Highland Region
The jointed and highly weathered zone forms the aquifer in this region.
Groundwater occurs under water table condition and the same can be exploited through
dug wells. Deep seated fracture or fault zones in the hard rocks usually also hold
groundwater and the same can be exploited through borewells.
Major Lineaments
There are a number of major faults and fractured zones in Wayanad, Palakkad,
Kasaragod, Malappuram, Attapady etc. The most productive aquifers in the crystalline
rocks are the fractured or faulted zones. The yield of wells located along these lineaments
or at the intersection point of lineaments are likely to be high.
Groundwater Potential and Utilisation in Kerala
Reliable estimates of the total groundwater potential and its distribution over
different regions of the State are basic information needed for formulating any plans for
groundwater utilisation. Central Ground Water Board, State Ground Water Department,
Central Water Commission and Centre for Water Resources Development and
Management have estimated groundwater potential of the State. The CGWB estimates of
ground water resource and irrigation potential of Kerala are given in Table 4.8.
4.20



Table 4.8
Ground Water Resource and Irrigation Potential of Kerala
Avaiable Utilisable                    Balance
Total    Provision    Ground   Ground    Gross Draft           Ground                         Utilisable
Replenisha   for        WaerWater           Estimated   Net Draft    water   Level of  Weighted   lrgto
SI.No.         Districts        ble Ground   Domestic,   Resource  Raesorcfo  on Prorata   (92  Reore Ground Water Average   Potential for
Water   industrial &  for     Reorefr       Basis                                            DevelopmentDveopen   Dlt
Resource   Other-Uses  Irrigation in  Irrigation in   (1992)   for Future  DevelpmentDelt
Net Terms   Net Terms                       Use
15t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(n ha -.m/Y<
(m.ha.mIYr)  (m.ha.m/Yr)  (m.ha.mNr)  (m.ha.mNir)  (m.ha.m/Yr)  (m.ha.    (m.ha.m/Yr)  ('h)  (m)  (m.ha)
1               2                 3          4         5          6           7         8         9         10         11        12
1    Thiruvananthapuram        0.02996    0.00899    0.02097    0.01887    0.00733   0.00513   0.01584     24.26      0.73     0.02585
2    Kollam                    0.04649    0.00929    0.03720    0.03348    0.01013   0.00709   0.03011     19.06      0.71     0.04715
3    Pathanamthitta            0.03739    0.00561    0.03178    0.02860    0.00463   0.00324   0.02854     10.20      0.72     0.03973
4    Alleppey                  0.05720    0.00858    0.04862    0.04376    0.00643   0.00450   0.04412      9.26      0.65     0.06731
5    Kottayam                  0.04740    0.0071    0.04029    0.03626    0.00581   0.00407   0.03622      10.10      0.69     0.05255
6    Idukki                    0.04580    0.00687    0.03893    0.03504    0.00274   0.00192   0.03701      4.93      0.83     0.04221
7    Ernakulam                 0.07506    0.01129    0.06380    0.05742    0.01916   0.01341   0.05039     21.00      0.65     0.08834
8    Thrissur                  0.08352    0.01253    0.07099    0.06389    0.02194   0.01536   0.05563     21.64      0.66     0.09680
9    Palakkad                  0.08856    0.01328    0.07527    0.06774    0.01123   0.00786   0.06741     10.44      0.53     0.12782
10    Malappuram               0.06856    0.01371    0.05485    0.05211    0.01433   0.01003   0.04482      18.28      0.71     0.06952
1 1   Kozhikode                0.05201    0.01040    0.04161    0.03939    0.00761   0.00533   0.03628      12.81      0.75     0.04993
12   Wayanad                   0.04246    0.00637    0.03609    0.03249    0.00254   0.00178   0.03431      4.93       0.54     0.06015
13   Kannur                    0.07331    0.01099    0.06232    0.05609    0.01296   0.00907   0.05325      14.55      0.78     0.07191
14    Kasaragod                0.04231    0.00635    0.03596    0.03236    0.01690   0.01183   0.02413      32.90      0.81     0.03996
TOTAL             0.79003    0.13135    0.65868    0.59281    0.14374   0.10062   0.55806      15.28               0.87925
Source  Ground Water Resources of India, Central Ground Water Board, Ministry of Water Resources, Govt. of India (1995).
4.21



Springs in Kerala
As per a survey by CWRDM (1988), a total of 236 springs were identified in the
state. About 80% of these springs are situated in the eastern side of the Western Ghat belt
of the state. The districtwise distribution of springs is given in Table 4.9. The coastal
districts like Alleppey and Ernakulam do not have any prominent springs. Most of the
springs are formed in the highlands (more than 75 m from MSL) and above 800 m there
is decreasing occurrence of springs due to lack of catchment area. The classification of
springs based on Meinzer's classification is shown in Table 4.10. The springs which
come under 3rd, 4th and 5 th order can be considered for drinking water purposes for
isolated villages.
Groundwater Quality
A sizeable rural population of Kerala, not yet covered by organised water supply
schemes, depend upon ground water sources for their domestic use. The major ground
water quality problems in the state are related to fecal contamination and presence of
excessive concentrations of salinity, iron and fluoride. The causes of contamination can
be attributed to sea water intrusion, domestic sewage, mineralogical origin and
agricultural and industrial activities.
Groundwater Quality in the Coastal Area
The main water quality problem is the presence of chloride concentration in
excess of 250 mg/l. As per CWRDM report (1997) well water samples from Azhikode,
Kakkathuruthi, Edathinjil, Kadalundi, Anjengo, Chellanum, Nallalam, Monkombu and
Harippad had chloride concentration in excess of 250 mg/l. The borewell samples in
Kozhikode city had a high concentration of chloride (20200 mg/l), iron (0.40 - 0.90 mg/l), total
hardness (9000 - 10600 mg/l) and sulphate (2200 - 2300 mg/l). The wells at Aiyur (near Mahe
river), Payyoli and Chaliyam showed high concentrations of iron and TDS.
4.22



Table 4.9
District-Wise Distribution of Springs in Kerala
Sl.No.               Name of District                  Number of Springs
1.                 Kasaragod                                 8
2.                  Kannur                                   34
3.                  Wayanad                                  24
4.                  Kozhikode                                46
5.                  Malappuram                               26
6.                  Palakkad                                 18
7.                  Thrissur                                 8
8.                  Kottayam                                 22
9.                 Idukki                                    18
10.                 Kollam                                    2
11.                 Thiruvananthapuram                       30
Total                               236
Source: Springs of Kerala - An Inventory, CWRDM (May 1988)
4.23



Table 4.10
Meinzer's Classification of Springs of Kerala
Order of            Discharge (1 sec-1)         No.of springs
magnitude                                          located
First                       >2830.00
Second                   283.00 - 2830.00               --
Third                     28.30 - 283.00                3
Fourth                     6.31 - 28.30                 14
Fifth                      0.631 - 6.31                 34
Sixth                    0.0631 - 0.0631                139
Seventh                  0.0029 - 0.0631                46
Eighth                      <0.0029
Source: Springs of Kerala - An Inventory, CWRDM (May 1988)
4.24



A study on ground water quality (CWRDM Report 1997) in Alappuzha reported
that all the pumping wells of KWA in the town have a fluoride concentration higher than
the permissible limit of 1 mg/l in drinking water and that 14% of the surveyed school
children had dental fluorosis. The seasonal variation in fluoride concentration in different
pumping wells of Alappuzha town is given in Table 4.1 1.
Groundwater quality of the midland region
The salient findings of a study on water quality characteristics of dug wells and
bore wells of midland region of Thrissur have been reported (CWRDM Report, 1997).
With regard to ion concentrations, the concentration of fluoride, iron and chloride
were found to be on the higher side in the case of a few bore well samples. The fluoride
content was observed to be beyond the permnissible limit (1 mg/l) in 12 bore wells located
in Kadavallur, Cowannur, Killannur, Mullasserry, Venkitangu, Ollukkara, Pannancherry,
Nadathara, Madakathara, Vilavattom and Kolazhi. The iron content of the target area was
observed to be high and beyond the permissible limit in bore wells located in 15
panchayats namely Adat, Vellangallur, Velookara, Puthenchira, Aloor, Kuzhoor, Mala,
Poyya, Karalam, Muriyad, Parapookara, Erumapetty, Mullukkara, Thekkumkara and
Wadakkancherry. The chloride concentration was found to be well within the permissible
limit except in one bore well sample at Paralam panchayat.
Microbiologically 52% of the wells were found to be contaminated. The details of
the microbiologically contaminated wells are indicated in Table 4.12.
In the midlands of Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Muvattupuzha, Kannur and
Kasargode, the water quality problems are mainly associated with pH and iron. In the wells of
Palakkad region fluoride is found to be a problem (CWRMD Report, 1997). The percentage of
wells contaminated with various pararneters in these places are indicated in Table 4.13.
4.25



Table 4.11
Fluoride Concentrations in the Wells of Alappuzha
Fluoride concentration (mg/1)
Name of sampling station                           July 1995     March 1996
Alappuzha - Convent                                1.0             1.2
Alappuzha - Vellakinar                             1.01            1.4
Alappuzha - Alisserry                              1.09            1.5
Alappuzha - Chudukkad-I                            1.13            1.9
Alappuzha - Chudukkad-II                           1.14            1.9
Alappuzha - Thookalam                              1.02            1.4
Alappuzha - Pazhavangadi                           1.08            1.4
Alappuzha - Vazhisserry                            1.14            1.3
Alappuzha - Chandanakavu                           1.15            2.6
Source : Water Quality Status of Kerala by K.N.Remani and PS Harikumar in Water
Scenario of Kerala (1998) Published by State Committee on Science,
Technology and Environment, Govt. of Kerala.
4.26



Table 4.12
Details of Microbiologically Contaminated Wells in Midlands of Thrissur2
Name of the Panchayat       Type of    Total Coliforms       E. coli
well     (MPN/100 ml)   (MPN/100 ml)
Anthikad                            DW            460               93
Cherpu                              BW            240                5
Koorkancherry                       DW            1100              46
Chiyyaram                           BW             93               43
Kadavallur                          DW           >2400              43
Porathisserry                       DW             79               43
Aloor                               DW           >2400              21
Aloor                               BW           >2400             1600
Irinjalakuda                        DW             140              --
Kolazhi                             DW            >2400             17
Ollukkara                           BW            >2400             12
Killanuur                           BW            >2400             14
Kadangode                           DW             540               --
Desamangalam                        BW            1100              240
Vellangallur                        BW            >2400              2
DW - dug well; BW - bore well; MPN - Most Probable Number
Source : Water Quality Status of Kerala by K.N.Remani and PS Harikumar in Water
Scenario of Kerala (1998) Published by State Committee on Science,
Technology and Environment, Govt. of Kerala.
2 Please note: Coliforns / Ecoli should be absent in drinking water (Bureau of Indian Standards and WHO
Guidelines).
4.27



Table 4.13
Percentage of Sampled Wells Contaminated with Iron, pH and Chloride in Various
Districts of Kerala (K.N.Remani and P.S. Ravikumar)
/0 of total   % of samples having the parameter
Name of the Sampling    contaminated       exceeding the limit (BIS)
Station  samples  pH       Iron       Chloride
Kannur                        67           67           13          NIL
Kottayam                      68           68           11          NIL
Eranakulam                    17            6           11          NIL
Palakkad                      40           19            6           29
Kasargode                     81           77           27          NIL
Thiruvananthapuram            72           40           68          NIL
BIS - Bureau of Indian Standards
Source : Water Quality Status of Kerala by K.N.Remani and PS Harikumar in Water
Scenario of Kerala (1998) Published by State Committee on Science,
Technology and Environment, Govt. of Kerala.
4.28



The major observations of the studies on the dispersion of domestic effluents on the
groundwater quality of Palakkad district are reported below:
*     With respect to fluoride, values ranging from 0.29 - 1.8 mg/l were noticed and
highest concentration is reported in Olavakkode.
*     Chloride concentration was found to be 650 mg/l in some of the wells of Chittoor
taluk.
*     High concentration of iron (>0.34 mg/l) and calcium (>300 mg/1) was found in
areas of Kuzhalmannam, Kanjikode, Mundur, Paralam and Alathur.
*     The coliform count was found to be beyond the permissible limit in areas of
Karimba, Kannadi and Vadakkancheri.
Groundwater quality of Highlands
The water samples analysed from Myladumpara of Idukki district indicated a high
concentration of iron and coliforms in the samples (0.84 - 1.15 mg/l Fe and 450 MPN-
coliforms). The bore well samples from Chilavu of the same district is also contaminated with
high concentration of iron and coliforms. The wells in Pudur panchayat (1.01 mg/l of iron),
Sholayur (0.79 mg/l iron) and Agali (> 2400 MPN coliforns) are also contaminated.
7.    A study on pollution of ground water due to domestic sewage has been
undertaken by CWRDM in five taluks of Palakkad district, viz. Palakkad,
Ottappalam, Chittoor, Alathur and Mannarghat. Data on water quality status of
selected wells in the district is presented in Tables 4.14, 4.14a and 4.14b. The study
has revealed that above 50% of the wells studied were bacteriologically
contaminated. There has also been a high incidence of waterborne diseases in the
district (Table 4.15 a). A comparison of water-borne diseases in Kerala with all India
average is given in Table 4.15 b.
4.29



Table 4.14
Water Quality Status of Selected Wells in Palakkad District
Location            pH( EC            TH__Caf Mg               NO,J K         PO, [ i  S0          F      ]Fe       [SPCI (C)   1(F)
Chittur Taluk
Kozhinjanpama        8.0    3500      790    140    85         170      8     ND    660   97.5   ND         0.06      1320   220      220
Meenakshipuram      7.5    2500       602    124    75.3    90          9.5   ND    410   105    ND         0.1       4.40   :2400   280
Chittur             8.2    1000        106    24      14.6    7.5       5.7   ND    100   65       ND       ND       1040   -2400   2400
Kollenkode          8.1    700        228    40       24.2    17        4     ND      80   47.5   ND        ND       CR      !2400   1600
Nemmara              8.5    600        162    24      14.6    2.7       9.1   ND    100   40       ND       ND       960    9         7
Ottapalam Taluk
Pattambi            6.9    260         160    11.2   30.5    4.5        6     ND      60   ND      ND       0.28     CR      33       26
Vallapuzha          7.5    240        50      11.2   6.8       6        5.4   ND      40   ND      ND       0.27     320    :2400   33
Lakkidi             7.2    70         22      1.1    0.7       2.7      4.2   ND      10   ND      ND       ND       1480   17        11
Sreekrishnapuram    7.3    50          18     2.4    1.5       3.2      4.5   ND      10   ND      ND       ND       580    4         4
Cherpulsasseiy       6.4    120        30     8.8    5.         A.      4.3   ND      20   ND      ND       0.1      C       20 40
Palakkad Taluk
Mundur             5.18   317.4      24      12      12     3        55    ND      40      ND      0.29     0.33     -                -
Parali             6.83    593.4     60      36      24     0.02     5.3   ND       98     ND      0.4      0.6      -       -        -
Kanjikode          7.73    3036      316    300    16       6.2       2.6   ND      44     ND      1.71     -        -       -        -
Olavakkode         7.51    900.9      182    84      98               3.5   ND      208    ND       1.80    -         54     14       2
Kannadi            7.95    831.6      144    104    40       0.5      5.2   ND      103    ND      0.8      ND               928      200
Alathur Taluk
Kuzhalannam        7.86   485.1      96      44      52      1.8      1.4   0.01    80      ND      0.68     0.34            350       140
Alathur            7.31    554.4      102    60      42      0.25     20    ND      64      ND      0.79     0.3      7       140      140
Vadakcncherry      7.73    152.46    12      4       8       0.2      15    ND      32      ND      0.58     0.004            350      170
Mangalam dam       7.51    384.92   44       24      20      0.12     0.6   24              0.89    8.14     85       49      5        ND
Kazhani            7.96    831.6      188    124    64       4        1.9   ND      98      ND      1.20     0.12             2400    2400
Mannarkkad Taluk
Alanallur          6.42  [30.6    [6.0    1.6    0.49   0.2           2.0   ND   1        1ND       8.63     0.004    5    j26         26
Mannarkkad         6.59    341.7     48       14.4   2.92    5.4    j24    ND               ND      8.61     0.12      129    >40 10
4.30



Table 4.14 Contd.,
Kanjirapuzha      6.80   31.11      ND                      0.86     2    ND             ND      0.61     0.12      1       22       22
Kariaba           6.85    168.3    36       12.8   0.97     5.4      5    ND             ND    0.67       0.18      76     358      350
Chengaleri         6.75   66.3      ND                       3       2    ND             ND      0.47     0.12              26       21
Agali
Jellippara         7.72    1017     20.0   6.4    0.94              0.9    ND              -    0.90      0.20      -      350       -
Pudur
Elachivazhi        6.79   6448      116    24.0   13.61             3.0         -          -              1.0       -       <2       -
Sholoyur
Anakkatty          7.22    1684.6   4968   101    58.81             17.5        -          -    0.626    0.79       -       9        -
MPN - Most Probable Number;
SPC - Standard Plate Count;
C - Coliforms;
F - Fecal Coliforms
Note                :         EC is in micro mhos/cm, SPC in MPN/100 ml
Source                        Pollution of Groundwater Due to Domestic Sewage - Final Report
CWRDM. November 1997
4.31



Table 4.14a
Bacteriological Characteristics of Well Water Samples in Mannarkkad Taluk,
Palakkad District3
Sample              Total Coliforms       Fecal Coliform        E-Coli
Code   SPC/ml       MPN /100 ml          MPN / 100 ml       MPN / 100 ml
1.      44            >2,400               >2,400              240
2.      173             23                   23                 <3
3.     6,500          >2,400               >2,400              150
4.     6,500          >2,400               >2,400               43
5.     6,500          >2,400               >2,400              240
6.      326             <3                  2,0
7.     6,500          >2,400               >2,400             >
8.     6,500          >2,400               >2,400             >2,400
9.     2500             <3
10.     608             240                  240                43
11.    6,500          >2,400                >2,400              240
12.    6,500            <3
13.     185           >2,400                >2,400              23
14.     208           >2,400                >2,400              93
MPN - Most Probable Number
Source: Pollution of Ground Water Due to Domestic Sewage (Final Report) CWRDM,
Kozhikode, December, 1997.
3 Please note: Colifonns / Ecoli should be absent in drinking water (Bureau of Indian Standards and WHO
Guidelines).
4.32



Table 4.14b
Bacteriological Characteristics of Well Water Sample in Ottappalam Taluk,
Palakkad District4
Sample    SPC/ml        Total Coliforms      Fecal Coliform     E-Coli
Code                    MPN/100 ml          MPN / 100 ml   MPN / 100 ml
1.       6,500           >2,400               >2,400           1,100
2.       6,500            >2,400              >2,400            11
3.        444             1,100                1,100             9
4.        288               9                   4                4
5.        134             1,100                1,100            150
6.       6,500            >2,400              >2,400            150
7.        944             >2,400               1,100           1,100
8.        228             >2,400              >2,400          >2,400
9.        296               43                  23              23
10.       264              240                  240              7
11.       576             >2,400              >2,400             9
SPC - Standard Plate Count; MPN - Most Probable Number;
Source: Pollution of Ground Water Due to Domestic Sewage (Final Report) CWRDM,
Kozhikode, December, 1997.
4 Please note: Coliforms / Ecoli should be absent in drinking water (Bureau of Indian Standards and WHO
Guidelines).
4.33



Table 4.15 a
Statistics of Waterborne Diseases in Palakkad District of Kerala
Number of cases
Diseases
1992 -93           1993 -94
Acute Diarrhoea                                65774              45131
Viral hepatitis                                 393                734
Cholera                                          1
Enteric fever                                  1080                433
Gastro enteritis                               1608                661
Poliomyelitis                                                       3
Source : Department of Health Services, Kerala.
Table 4.15 b
Statistics of Waterborne Diseases in Kerala as compared to All- India
Number of cases (1993-94)
Diseases
Kerala            All-India
Acute Diarrhoea                               610,914           7,262,755
Viral hepatitis                                10,387            117,789
Cholera                                          36                4958
Poliomyelitis                                    71                7,576
Source: CSE, The Citizen's Fifth Report (Part II Statistical Database)
4.34



The pollution sources identified were animal feedlots, septic tanks, garbage,
kitchen waste and storm runoff. In 8% of the wells surveyed, nitrate concentration was
above the permissible limit of 45 mg/l (as No3) for drinking water. High nitrate
concentrations were observed in biologically polluted wells. In about 16% of the wells
studied, fluoride levels were high, above the permissible limit of 1.0 mg/l. High chloride
concentration in dug well waters at Kozhinjanpara and Meenakshipuram in Chittur taluk,
and high concentration of iron in groundwater at Mundur, Paralam and Alathur were also
reported.
Over-exploitation of Groundwater in Certain Hydrogeological Zones
As per Ground Water Year Book of Kerala (1996-97), CGWB, Kerala Region,
water level observations during August 1996 (Fig. 4.2) have indicated that 55% of NH
stations showed a fall in water level less than 2m and are distributed throughout the state;
the fall in water level of 2-4 m is observed in a few isolated pockets and that in
Kozhinjampara of Palakkad district a fall of 4.3 m is observed. As per November 1996
observations (Fig. 4.3) a decline in water level of more than 2 m is confined to a few
pockets in Pathanamthitta district and around Palakkad and southern tip of
Thriruvananthapuramn district. Groundwater level during April 97 (Fig. 4.4) 397 NH
stations indicates that, in general, the change in water level ranges from +2 to -2 m as
represented by 96% NH stations analysed. The fall in water level above 2 m in 3% of
NH stations analysed occurred in isolated pockets in Kannur, Malapuram and Palakkad
districts.
As per CGWB report 'Ground water Resources of Kerala, (1997)', in 35 of the
151 blocks in the state the level of ground water development is more than 45%. Among
them 4 blocks show higher development and as per present growth rate these blocks may
become 'dark' or 'grey' after 5 years as per details in the following table.
4.35



Present level Project stage of
Name of       District    Development development at  Category at year five
block        Dsrcyear five
Chirayinkil  Thriruvanantha    60.52         85.77     Dark (>85 but <100%)
Purain
Kottarakara  Kollam            52.09         66.44     Grey (>65 <85%)
Mala        Thrissur           58.67         66.77     Grey
Kasaragod   Kasaragod          56.16         72.71     Grey
Fecal contamination in ground water sources
An assessment of the bacterial quality of water with reference to fecal coliforms
in open dug wells in Kearla has been undertaken by the Kerala State Pollution Control
Board. It also attempted to determine the extent of contribution to fecal contamination by
the factors influencing water quality such as soil type; depth of well, presence of latrine
pit in relation to distance and slope from well, presence of cattle shed in relation to
distance from well, water use pattern and user behavior.
In total 150 selected wells, fifty each from the south, central and northern zones of
the Socio-Economic Units of the Kerala Water Authority, were monitored. Of these 150,
144 are open wells and 6 are closed with hand pumps. Among the 144 open wells, 103
have SEU latrines in the vicinity while another 30 wells have related pits or septic tanks
of other types. 11 open wells without any pits in the vicinity were also monitored. Water
samples from the wells were analysed four times, at an interval of approximately
2 weeks, during the period of December 1990 to April 1991. Along with fecal coliforms,
three other parameters of water quality, namely pH, conductivity, total dissolved solids
were also monitored.
The general conclusions from the study are:
4.36



1.    Water in none of the open wells investigated is of drinking water quality standard
as prescribed by the Bureau of Indian Standards.
2.    The open character of the wells and the conventional maintenance habits are
found to be responsible for fecal pollution in them.
3.    Pit latrines with average family load factor (5 members) at a distance of 5 meter
from wells are found to make no contribution to the pollution of well water.
4.    Water analysed from covered wells with hand pumps as close as 5 meters to the
SEU latrine were found to contain no fecal coliforms.
Though the operation is limited to the three areas of Kollam, Thrisoor and Kozhikode
where the Socio-Economic Units of Kerala Water Authority operates, the observations can be
generalised since the study has covered varied geological, social and cultural factors applicable
to the State as a whole. With these conclusions in mind, it is suggested that there should be a
system for monitoring the quality of well water, since habits of poor maintenance overtake the
programmes for disinfection and protection of wells resulting in water quality deterioration.
Relevant information on water resources, their utilisation and problems of water
quality with specific reference to the four project districts is presented as follows.
Surface Water Sources of Malappuram District
The Malappuram district has 4 major rivers all of which are west flowing and
drain into the Arabian sea. The basic features of these rivers are as follows.
4.37



Length  Ctchment   Annual
SI. No.       Name of the river         Length      atent   discharge in
1.    Chaliyar river (only a portion   196         2535         2350
falls in Malappuram district)   (105)       (1570)
2.    Kadalundi river                  130         1122         1550
(1033)
3.    Tirur river                      48           117          165
4.    Bharathapuzha or Ponnani river   209         4400          970
(only a portion falls in        (70)         (650)
Malappuram district)
* Figures in the brackets are the lengths and catchment areas falling in Malappuram district
The district has also a large area of back water body in which Biyyam Kayal is the
biggest one. The total water stored in these back water bodies is estimated assuming an
average depth of 3 m is 294 Mm3.
Groundwater Quality Along Malappuram Coast
The groundwater quality in the coastal belt of Malappuram district can be divided
into the following categories.
a. Places where groundwater remains unpotable throughout the year due to
high pH, high TDS and high Cl2 (Ottumpuaram and Ottumpuram beach) and.
high pH alone (Kuttayi and Chamvaravattom)
b. Places where groundwater becomes unpotable during summer only due to
i. high pH and TDS (Kadalundi Nagaram, Purathur and Munumbum)
ii. low pH (Kolathambalam, Anangadi beach, Kattungal Parambu and Minadattur.
iii. high pH during summer (Tripangode and Talakkad), and
4.38



iv. high iron content (Pachattiri, Vettam, Tirur, Cherupunna, Kanniramukku,
Eramangalam and Palathingal). Barring the pockets referred above, ground water
in the remaining places is found potable throughout the year.
Water Resources of Kozhikode district
The Kozhikode district has 4 major rivers (Kuttiadi, Kallai, Chaliyar and
Kadalundi) all of which are west flowing and drain into the Arabian Sea. The largest
river in the district is Kuttiadi. Data on water resources availability and utilisation in the
district is presented in Table 4.16.
Coastal Groundwater Quality In Kozhikode District
The majority of the coastal wells produce potable water, the exceptions being at
places like Kadalundi, Kallai and Kannankadav where a large percentage of wells get
saline in summer. The spatial distribution of important water quality parameters during
pre monsoon of 1982 of few wells along the coast is given below.
Well Location
Parameters
Kannankadav       East Kallai    Kadalundi
Date                            3-5-1980         3-5-1980       5-5-1980
pH                                 6.8              7.1            8.3
TDS in ppm                        1200             1200            870
Cl in ppm                          167              244            295
Conductivity p .mho/cm            2132             2026           1456
Ref: Water Scenario in Kerala. Vol. I Kozhikode District (1983)
4.39



Table 4.16
Water Resources Availability and Utilisation in Kozhikode District
Source        Estimated Annual    Annual Utilised     Percentage of
Utilisable Amount   Potential in MCM  Utilisation (1983)
in MCM             (1983)
Surface Water
Rivers                  1581.12             320*               20.24
Backwaters               10.68               Nil                Nil
Tanks                    8.392              5.438              65.06
Reservoirs               113.9              113.9               100
Total                    1714                440               25.67
Ground Water
Coastal Alluvium         108.8              27.2                25
Midlands                  672                58.8               8.75
Highlands                 37.5               0.91               2.42
Total                    818.3              86.91               10.6
Grand Total
Surface Water and       2532.3               527               20.81
Groundwater
MCM - Million Cubic Meter
* As per Bureau of Economics and Statistics this figure is only 12.075 MCM. This large
disparity is due to the fact that the Bureau of Economics and Statistics has taken care of
only irrigated paddy cultivation.
Source: Water Scenario in Kerala. Vol I - Kozhikode District (1983) P.Basak and
G.Anil Kumar.
4.40



As per findings of Basak and Vasudev (1983) every centimeter drop of
groundwater table along the Kozhikode Coastal belt is met with an increase of
1 to 20ppm of total dissolved solids (TDS) and an increase of 0.5 to 8 ppm of chloride.
The present (1983) and future water demands for the district are given in Table 4.17.
The following inferences have been drawn from the data given in Table 4.17.
1.    2014 A.D. to meet the water requirement of the district, every drop of available
utilisable surface and groundwater resources (2532 MCM/year) have to be used.
2.    By 2021 A.D. the district will face an annual water deficit of the order of 166 MCM
which will be increased to 666 MCM by 2051 A.D. from the present (1983) surplus of
1281 MCM. This deficit has to be tackled by improved water management practices as
well by transporting water from neighbouring districts if feasible.
3.    By 2007 A.D. the entire groundwater resources of the district will be needed to meet
the industrial and domestic water demand of the district. The present pace of
groundwater development in the state has to be accelerated to meet the future demand.
4.    By 2021 A.D. entire surface water resources (1714 MCM/year) of the district will
not be sufficient even to meet the agricultural water demand (1730 MCM/year) of
the district alone.
Water Resources of Thrissur District
The average annual rainfall in the highland, midland and lowland regions of the
district are 2851 mm, 3011 mm and 2858 mm respectively. The major river basins falling
within the Thrissur district are Karuvannur, Keecheri - Puzhakkal. Small portions of
Bharathapurzha and Chalakudy also fall within the district. The Karuvannur basin has an
area of 1054 sq.km and Keechari-Puzhakkal, 635 sq.km. The average monsoon flow
(June-November) for Karuvannur is 994 Mm3 and for Keecheri-Puzhakkal, 231 Mm3.
4.41



Table 4.17
Present and Future Water Demand for Kozhikode District
Type mf          Taluks                       Water Demand in MCM/year
Demand                                     (rounded to the nearest whole number)
1983           2001           2021            2051
Paddy  Other  Paddy  Other  Paddy  Other  Paddy  Other
crops          crops           crops          crops
Kozhikode        201    197    221    321    230    384    278    449
Agricultural    Quilandy          143    238    210    341    245    393    280    448
water demand
Badagara         111    231    156    200    172    306    200    333
Total            255    666    587    942    647    1083    758    1230
Agricultural         921            1529            1730           1988
demand
Major  Minor  Major  Minor  Major  Minor  Major  Minor
Industrial water  Kozhikode       26      167    31      422     38      550     44     677
demand for
Major & Minor   Quilandy          Nil    22       Nil    59      Nil    78       Nil    97
Industries      Badagara          Nil    47       Nil    Nil    Nil    257    Nil    194
Total industrial    26   236     31     602      38     785     44      968
demand               262            633             823            1012
Urban  Rural  Urban  Rural  Urban  Rural  Urban  Rural
Domestic Water  Kozhikode          32      13     50      21      68     27      38      38
Demand          Quilandy          0.6      12      1      19      1.2    26      1.7    35
Badagara          1.5     9       2      15      3       20     4.3     27
34     34      53      55      72     73      98      100
Total Domestic        68             108            145             198
demand
Total Annual Demand                   1251           2270            2968           3198
MCM - Million Cubic Meter
Source           Water Scenario in Kerala. Vol I - Kozhikode District (1983). P.Basak
and G.Anil Kumar.
4.42



The estimated average lean flow (December-May) for Karuvannur is 4 Mm3 and
Keecheri-Puzhakkal 5 Mm3 at 75% dependability. Most of these rivers are practically dry
during summer months.
Groundwater Occurrence and Availability
Groundwater occurs mostly under phreatic (water table) conditions in sandy
alluvium in the coastal region, laterite in the midland region and weathered and fractured
rocks in the midland and highland regions of the district. Yield from open wells in coastal
sandy aquifers is 0.17-0.35 lps and in laterite formations it is 0.17-0.23 lps. Yield from
borewells tapping the fractured aquifers is 0.5 lps and 24.5 lps. The groundwater potential
in areas covered by crystalline rocks is 163.96 Mm3/yr, in laterite is 540.00 Mm3/yr and
in alluvium is 152.40 Mm3/yr. The blockwise groundwater potential in the district is
presented in Table 4.18.
Groundwater Extraction Structures and Their Density
Large diameter dug wells are the most common groundwater extraction structures
in the area. In places where the sandy aquifer is quite thick (10 m), filter point wells are
also used. In places where the overburden is thick (10 to 20 m) and the water level is
quite deep (especially in summer), dug-cum-bore wells are used. In some places bore
wells are also used to extract groundwater from the fractured rocks There are 200 to 250
dug wells, 2 to 3 dug-cum-bore wells and I to 2 bore wells per sq.km in the study area.
Groundwater Utilization
An EIA study of Kerala Community Irrigation Project in 12 out of 17
development blocks of Thrissur district has shown that:
1.    The present (1995) level of groundwater draft through dug wells per sq.km is
0.118 Mm3. It is expected to increase to 0.183 Mm3 per year by 2015 AD.
4.43



Table 4.18
Ground Water Potential of Thrissur District
Utilisable    Gross    Net draft   Ground
Total GW    GW for  draft as on    as on     water
Sl.No.    Name of block    RechareM  irrigation   31/03/92   31/03/92   balance in
MCM/   in MCM/  in MCM/   MCM/
year       year      year       year       year
1.   Kodungallor           26.55     22.57       6.88      4.82       17.75
2.   Ollukkara             87.42      74.31     17.21      12.05      62.26
3.   Thalikulam            31.57      26.83      12.34      8.64      18.19
4.   Mullasseri            14.08      11.97      5.60       3.92      8.05
5.   Chavakad              40.33      34.28      7.18       5.03      29.25
6.   Anthikkad             24.91      21.17     10.59       7.41      13.76
7.   Chalakudy            118.40     100.64     23.90      16.73      93.91
8.   Vellangullur          29.06      24.70     12.73       8.91      15.29
9.   Irinijalakuda         66.26      56.32      17.09     11.96      44.36
10.   Mathilakam           29.77      25.30      12.48      8.74      16.56
11.   Vadakkanchery        74.13      63.01      26.73      18.73     44.30
12.   Puzhakkal            48.64      41.34      11.73      8.21      33.13
13.   Mala                 42.73      36.32      30.44      21.31      15.01
14.   Chovannur            28.27      24.03      5.31       3.72      20.31
15.   Cherpu               26.77      22.75      5.13       3.59       19.16
16.   Pazhayannur          72.15      61.13      6.09       4.26       57.07
17.   Kodakara             74.20      63.07       8.08      5.66       57.41
Total                464.95     371.96     101.36     70.93     301.03
MCM - Million Cubic Meter
Source: Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network - Chalakurdy River Basin (Sep. 1999).
Indo-Dutch Project, Kerala State Pollution Control Board, Thiruvananthapuramn.
4.44



ii.   The present (1995) level of draft from bore wells per sq.km is 0.006 Mm3/yr. It is
expected to increase to 0.020 Mm3/yr (without KCIP bore wells) by 2015 AD.
iii.   As at present (1995), the stage of groundwater development in all the 12 blocks of
the study area is 'White' (<65%). The estimates show that by 2015, one block
namely Chowannur can turn 'dark' (>85%), 6 blocks namely Wadakkancherry,
Pazhayannur, Cherpu, Chalakkudy, Kodakkara and Ollukkara can turn 'Gray'
(>65% but <100%) and the remaining 5 blocks namely Puzhakkal, Anthikkadu,
Irinjalakkuda, Vellangallur and Mala will continue to be 'White'.
Water level fluctuations in bore wells and nearby dug wells recorded by KCIP for
two consecutive years have shown a falling trend of water level in places like
Kuttanellur, Kuttenchira, Perumala, Achattupadi and Thekkumkara. The fall in water
level varies between 0.2 and 4 m in bore wells and less than 0.5 m in dug wells.
Bacteriological Quality of Groundwater
Microbiological examination was done for 26 bore wells and 16 dug wells. 27%
of the bore wells and 68% of the dug wells were found to be bacteriologically
contaminated. The locations of contaminated bore wells are Cherpu, Chiiyyaram, Aloor,
Ollukkara, Killanur, Desamangalam and Vellangallur.
Endemic Health Problems
As per the statistics on water borne diseases (1993-94) with respect to Thrissur
district collected from the Department of Health Services, Kerala and Primary Health
Centres of Thrissur district, the casualities due to diarrhoeal diseases were noted to be the
maximum in the district at 78008. However, the district wise data and the figures for the
diseases reported do not indicate the source of water - surface or ground.
4.45



Chemical Quality of Groundwater
With regard to chemical quality, the concentration of iron, chloride and fluoride
was found to be on the higher side in the case of a few bore well samples. The fluoride
concentration was beyond the permissible limit (1 mg/I, BIS) in 12 bore wells located at
Kadavallur, Chowannur, Killannur, Mullasery, Venkitangu, Ollukara, Panancherry,
Nadathara, Mandakkathara, Vilavattom and Kolazhi. The iron content was observed to be
0.3 mg/l in 15 panchayats, viz. Adat, Vellanagallur, Velookara, Puthenchira, Aloor,
Kuzhoor, Mala, Poyya, Karalam, Muriad, Parapookara, Erumapetty, Mullukkara,
Thekkumkara and Vadakkancerry. The chloride concentration was found to high in a
bore well located at Paralam Panchayat.
Effect of Fertilizer and Pesticide on Groundwater Quality
In Thrissur district, three panchayats, viz., Paralam. Velangallur and Kaiparamba
were taken up for a detailed study of the effect of fertilizers on groundwater quality.
Kaiparamba was selected for the study on the effect of pesticides on groundwater. Water
samples were  collected from these areas and subjected to detailed analysis for
agrochemicals. The results of the analysis revealed that there is no effect of
agrochemicals on the groundwater quality of these regions.
Water Scenario of Palakkad District
The rainfall in Palakkad district varies from 700 mm to 4000 mm with an average
rainfall of 1985 mm. The Palakkad gap, a natural opening of about 40 km wide in the
Western Ghats, plays a significant role in the distribution of rainfall in the district. Major
part of the rainfall occurs during the south-west monsoon season from June to Sept.
Ground water occurs under phreatic condition in the weathered formation -
laterite and alluvium. The depth to water level in the phreatic aquifer of alluvium along
the Bharathapuzha river varies from 3-8 m bgl and the depth of well ranges from 4 m to
4.46



10 m bgl. While in the western part of the district the depth of dug wells is 4-16 m bgl, in
the eastern part, especially in parts of Chittoor taluk the dug wells are deep, >-32 m bgl.
In the four eastern blocks of Palakkad, viz. Chittoor, Kollengode, Palakkad and
Kuzalmannam, there has been a spurt in the number of irrigation bore wells since 1986.
Long term trend in water level for the period 1985-95, as observed from 33 dug wells
tapping phreatic aquifer, indicates a decline in water level in some parts of the district due to
increased ground water draft'. In such areas, recharge to ground water can be enhanced
through artificial recharge and preservation of existing tanks and ponds in the area.
Diminishing and deteriorating traditional sources
Traditionally, Kerala had very sound systems of conservation. and management of
natural resources of which water conservation was an integral part. These systems not
only ensured adequate water available for both irrigation and domestic needs, but also
conserved rainwater to offset any deficiency in the monsoons. While shallow open dug
wells met the drinking water needs, rivers, streams (Thodus) and ponds met the irrigation
and other needs (washing, bathing etc.). The agricultural practice was also extremely
conducive to water conservation, e.g., the paddy cultivation not only helped in crop
production but also in retaining the excess surface water over the ground for a long
duration, thus recharging the ponds and wells.
This situation has totally changed today. Paddy fields, ponds and even the
'Thodus' are being reclaimed either for constructing houses or for cash crop plantations.
Heavy pumping from deep bore wells has caused significant lowering of groundwater
4 A study on Declining of water level in Palghat District, Kerala State N.
Vinayachandran and K.M. Najeeb
Workshop on Groundwater Regime Monitoring in Kerala, January 1998. CGWB,
Kerala Region
4.47



table resulting in drying up of the shallower open dug wells. This drastic reversal of water
development strategies (over-exploitation on one hand and neglect of conservation
measures on the other) has resulted in large-scale water shortages.
4.3. Socio-economic Environment
Population
The population of Kerala as on March 1, 1991 was 29,098,518 persons
(14,288,995 males and 14,809,523 females) and comprised 3.44% of the total population
of India. The average population size of a district is 20.78 lakhs. The district-wise
population profile is given in Table 4.19.
The density of population was 749 persons/sq.km, the second highest in the
country and about 2.7 times the all India density of 274 persons/sq.km.As for the sex
ratio, Kerala is unique with 1,036 females per 1000 males, as compared to the all India
figure of 927. Since 1971 census, the population growth rate in the state has been
declining and the present growth rate of 14.32% during 1981-1991 is the lowest in the
country which has a growth rate of 23.85%.
As per 1991 census, the average size of a household in the state is 5.3 persons as
against 5.6 for all India. The urban population in Kerala has been steadily increasing from
7.11% in 1901 to 26.39 in 1991. It is difficult to distinguish a village from a town in
Kerala and in appearance villages resemble an urban continuum and this is a unique
feature of the state.
Kerala with a literacy rate of 89.18% stands foremost among the states in India
with an average of 52.21%. Literacy of women, who occupy a pivotal role in the society,
is 86.17% as against 39.29% for the country.
4.48



As per the 1991 census, Kerala had 28.87 lakhs of SC and 3.21 lakhs of ST
population constituting 9.29% and 1.10% respectively, of the total population. Salient
socio-economic data of the state is presented in Table 4.20.
4.49



Table 4.19
District-wise Population Profile of Kerala- 1991 Census
Sex    Growth    Density    Effective Literacy rate (per cent)
District               Area   Population   ratio    rate      Denst2y
1981-91   (per kmn)    Total     Male    Female
1              2         3        4        5          6           7         8         9
KERALA          38,863  29,098,518   1,036    14.32      749        89.81     93.62     86.17
1.  Kasaragod               1,992   1,071,508   1,026    22.78      538       82.51     88.97      76.29
2.  Kannur                  2,966   2,251,727   1,049    16.63      759       91.48      95.54     87.65
3.  Wayanad                 2,131    672,128    966     21.32       315        82.73     87.59     77.69
4.  Kozhikode               2,344   2,619,941   1,027    16.69      1,118      91.10     95.58     86.79
5.  Malappuram              3,550   3,096,330   1,053    28.87      872       87.94      92.08     84.09
6.  Palakkad                4,480   2,382,235   1,061    16.52      532        81.27     87.24     75.72
7.  Thrissur                3,032   2,737,311   1,085    12.20      903       90.18      93.77     86.94
8.  Emakulam                2,407   2,817,236   1,000    11.12      1,170      92.35     95.46     89.27
9.  Idukki                  5,019   1,078,066    975     11.22      215        86.94     90.82     82.96
10.  Kottayam               2,203   1,828,271   1 ,003    7.71       830       95.72     97.46     94.00
11.  Alappuzha              1,414   2,001,217   1,051    7.28       1,415      93.87     96.79     91.12
12.  Pathanamthitta         2,642   1,188,332   1,062    5.60        450       94.86     96.55     93.29
13.  Kollam                 2,491   2,407,566   1,035    10.68       967       90.47     94.99     87.00
14.  Thiruvananthapuram     2,192   2,946,650   1,036    13.50      1,344      89.22     92.84     85.76
Source: Census of India 1991. Series-12, Kerala
4.50



Table 4.20
Salient Socio-economic Data of Kerala (1991 Census)
Description                            Kerala             India
Area (in sq.km)                                             38,863         30,65.027
No. of districts                                               14               452
No. of C.D. Blocks                                             151            5,774
No. of taluks                                                   61              NA
No. of villages (inhabited)                                  1,384          5,80,702
No. of villages (uninhabited)                                    0           46,732
No. of U.A. and Towns                                          109            3,699
Total No. of Towns                                             197            4,615
No. of occupied residential houses                        54,59,474      14,70,11,586
No. of households                                         55,13,200      15,20,09,467
Total population                            P           2,90,98,518    84,63,02,688*
M          1,42,88,995      43,92,30,458
F           1,48,09,523     40,70,72,230
Population below age 7 years                P             38,36,900      15,04,21,175
M            19,59,527       7,73,22,151
F            18,77,373       7,30,99,024
Literates                                   P           2,26,86,461     35,92,84,417
M           1,15,42,848     22,95,36,935
F           1,11,43,613     12,97,47,482
SC Population                               P             28,86,522      13,82,23,277
M            14,22,614       7,19,28,960
F            14,63,908      6,62,94,.317
ST Population                               P              3,20,967       6,77,58,380
M             1,60,812       3,43,63,271
F             1,60,155       3,33,95,109
Main Workers                                 P            83,01,087      28,59,32,493
M            64,04,458      22,16,58,584
F            18,96,629       6,42,73,909
Marginal Workers                             P             8,45,031       2,81,98,877
M             3,94,392        27,05,223
F             4,50,639       2,54,93,654
Non-workers                                  P           1,99,52,400     52,44,36,566
M            74,90,145      21,08,44,351
F           1,24,62,255     31,35,92,215
SC - Scheduled caste; ST- Scheduled Tribe; P - Population; M - Male; F- Female
*      Including projected population of Jammu & Kashmir.
All other figures of India exclude Jammu & Kashmir where 1991 census was not conducted.
Source: Census of India 1991, Series - 12, Kerala.
4.51



Tribal Population
Out of 350 Gram Panchayats in the four project districts, some 9 GPs have tribal
population (3 in Palakkad 4 in Malappuram and one each in Thrissur and Kozhikode
district). The tribal GPs in Palakkad and Malappuram are distinctly different from others
and are characterized by high incidence of poverty, illiteracy, low health status and weak
GP management. With undulating topography, very few water sources in nearby viscinity
and water quality problems, these GPs demand different technological options. Thus, the
tribal GPs can not be treated on the same lines as that of non-tribal GPs and they demand
a special dispensation.
Living and Habitation Patterns of People
A typical feature of Kerala is the habitation pattern of its people, who prefer to live in a
dispersed pattern, independently and on their own property, rather than together in clusters as in
the conventional concept of a "village". Hence, majority of households owned independent
source of water. In water scarce areas, poor people shared either neighbour's well or a public
well for drinking water. Ponds or streams were widely used for bathing and washing purposes.
Increasing material prosperity and breaking up of the traditional joint family structures, led to
households splitting physically, a consequent division of property along with need for more
water sources. Due to increased pressures on the land, people not only started reclaiming old
ponds and paddy fields for building construction but also started replacing open dug wells with
bore wells. All these phenomena resulted in a gradual over-exploitation of groundwater on the
one hand and a collapse of the traditions of conservation of water on the other, contributing to
the current water crisis.
The peculiar dwelling pattern of people (right in the middle of their agricultural
property) and the type of land allotted to poor people also compelled them to live in water
scarce areas where no traditional sources are available.
4.52



Economy
Kerala's progressive economy is mainly agro-based. Extensive rubber plantations
on the foothills of the Western Ghats and the cashew factories of Kollam are valuable
foreign exchange earners. The coir products and handicrafts from Alappuzha are received.
well both in India and abroad. The land itself is believed to have derived its name frorn
"Keram" the coconut palm.
Though industrially backward, Kerala is one of the most progressive states in
terms of social welfare and physical quality of life. The matriarchal system here is a
unique social heritage as the women of Kerala enjoy a better status than their counterparts
elsewhere in India. The absence of the village system in Kerala is also a unique
phenomenon. The people of Kerala enjoy a unique cosmopolitan outlook, which is
reflected in their tolerance towards other races and religions.
The early settling of Jews, Syrians and Portuguese in Kerala, has resulted in a
happy blending and enrichment of the Keralite's life and culture. This rich culture,
together with the peculiar ecological pattern and beauty of the region have earned for
Kerala the title - "God's own Country".
Water Supply and Sanitation
Despite the state's progress in health and social sectors, much remains to be
achieved in the water supply sector. The state had targeted 100% coverage of rural areas
with safe drinking water supply during the VII Plan period ended March 1977.
As against this, the rural population covered till 1.4.99 is only 51% (Table 4.21), while
the coverage for urban population is 77.66% (Table 4.22). As per the survey conducted
by the Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission, there are still 7091 partially
covered (water supply less than 40 lpcd) habitations, 990 not covered habitations and
13 inaccessible and hence not covered habitations in the state (Table 4.23).
4.53



Table 4.21
Coverage and Status of Water Supply in the State of Kerala
Population covered by Rural Water Supply Schemes (District-wise)
Total population based on
SI.al1991 census               Total population based on     Total population covered till  Coverage status in
Si.    Name of District            1991 census       -           1998-99 census                     1.4.99                     %
No                             Cumulative coverage
Total      SC        ST          Total       SC        ST       Total    SC         ST     Total  SC   ST
1.  Kasaragodu              895282     75208    28924        4975        245      390     571002      59675    13582    64    79   47
2.  Kannur                 1106251     48202    17640       21265          0        0      464324     36003      8255    42    75   47
3.  Wayanadu                649179      26387   112543         300       300        0      341511     15245    53785    53    58   48
4.  Kozhikkode             1615444    131859      4942       16063       665         0     441777     54885      3240    27    42   66
5.  Malappuram             2813876    237233    10514       47845       1768       23    1305655    134438       3419   46    57   33
6.  Palakkad               2007658    333881    34899        16679      2798         8     985359    156242    14214    49    47   41
7.  Thrissur               2017095    270712      3891      79706      12411        12    1305756    195540      2555   65    72   66
8.  Emakulam               1444059    150768      2202       9210        648       44    1097261    114125       1497    76    76   68
9.  Idukki                 1027185    153860    49531        13314      2093      896      365192     49495    19733    36    32   40
10. Kottayam               1507353    117689    17582           0          0        0     671404      53497      7010   45    45   40
11. Alappuzha              1391607    154689      1732      43616       4409      211      781570     82702       928    56    53   54
12. Pathanamthitta         1033298    139563      6590          0          0        0     520356      71607      1234    50    51    19
13. Kollam                 1961530    266810      3443      20280      14563       58      880941    126754      1796   45    48   52
14. Thiruvananthapuram     1948407    245063    15331       21856       2672        7    1265704    148253       8397    65    60   55
Total        21418224   2351924   309764    295109        29462      1649   10997812   1298461   139645    51    55   45
Cumulative coverage
Total                                        10997812   1298461   139645
Census population    21418224   2351924   309764  21418224   2351924   309764
village total
Coverage Status in                                         51        55        45
percentage(%)
SC - Scheduled caste;   ST- Scheduled Tribe
Source: Kerala Water Authority
4.54



Table 4.21
Coverage and Status of Water Supply in the State of Kerala
Population covered by Rural Water Supply Schemes (District-wise)
Total population based on      Total population based on    Total population covered till    Coverage status in
Si.    Name of District           1991 census                   1998-99 census                     1.4.99                     %
No                             Cumulative coverage                                                _____
Total      SC        ST          Total       SC       ST        Total    SC        ST      Total  SC   ST
I.  Kasaragodu              895282     75208    28924        4975       245       390     571002     59675    13582   64    79   47
2.  Kannur                 1106251     48202    17640       21265         0         0    464324      36003      8255    42    75   47
3.   Wayanadu               649179     26387   112543         300       300         0     341511      15245    53785    53    58   48
4.   Kozhikkode            1615444    131859      4942      16063       665         0    441777      54885      3240    27    42   66
5.  Malappuram             2813876    237233    10514       47845      1768        23    1305655    134438      3419   46    57   33
6.  Palakkad               2007658    333881    34899       16679      2798         8    985359    156242    14214   49    47   41
7.  Thrissur               2017095    270712      3891      79706     12411        12    1305756    195540      2555    65    72   66
8.  Ernakulam              1444059    150768      2202       9210       648        44    1097261    114125      1497    76    76   68
9.  Idukki                 1027185    153860    49531       13314      2093       896     365192     49495    19733    36    32   40
10. Kottayam               1507353    117689    17582           0         0         0     671404     53497      7010    45    45   40
11. Alappuzha              1391607    154689      1732      43616      4409       211     781570     82702       928    56    53   54
12. Pathanamthitta         1033298    139563      6590          0         0         0     520356     71607      1234    50    51   19
13. Kollam                 1961530    266810      3443      20280     14563        58     880941    126754      1796   45    48   52
14. Thiruvananthapuram     1948407    245063    15331       21856      2672         7    1265704    148253      8397    65    60   55
Total        21418224   2351924   309764    295109        29462      1649   10997812   1298461   139645    51    55   45
Cumulative coverage
Total                                        10997812   1298461   139645
Census population    21418224   2351924   309764  21418224   2351924   309764
village total
Coverage Status in                                        51         55       45
percentage(%)                                                           .
SC - Scheduled caste;   ST- Scheduled Tribe
Source: Kerala Water Authority
4.54



Table 4.22
Coverage and Status of Water Supply in the State of Kerala
Population Covered by Urban Water Supply Schemes (District-wise)
SL   Name of District          Upto      1990-91    1991-92    1992-93    1993-94    1994-95    1995-96   1996-97   1997-98   1998-99
No.  Name o District1980-81
I.   Thiruvananthapuram       511250     562375     721140     728200     728700     728700    733000    733000    733000    742900
2.   Kollam                   259000     306300     309000     312400     312850     333490    463490    463490    463490    463490
3.   Pathanamthitta             Nil       83520      84350      85200      85200      85200      85200     95700     105200    105200
4.   Alappuzha                261000     485000     489000     494700     494700     494700    494700    494700    494700    494700
5.   Kottayam                  8300      244000     246000     248000     248250     363310    363310    363310    363310    363310
6.   Idukki                     Nil       10000      10600      38900      38900      38900      38900     53900     53900      53900
7.   Emakulam                 671000     886800     895600     904500     905100     905295    1060996   1071496   1071486   1107586
8.   Thrissur                 405000     530100     535400     540700     541300     542270    542270    542270    542270    575270
9.   Palakkad                 134000     228300     230600     232800     233100      233900    256750    256750    256750    256750
10.  Malappuram               115000     174300     176000     177700     178050     187234    238334    256334    265634    273634
11.  Kozhikkode               332000     548500     554000     559400     559866     560116    596850    602850    611250    659250
12.  Wayanadu                  Nil       10500       11000      11500      11500      11500      11500     11500     11500      11500
13.  Kannur                   201000     480300     485100    489200      489550     504356    577503    577503    588103    628103
14.  Kasargodu                137000     221400     223600     225800     225800     228850    228850    228850    228850    228850
Total                   3034550    4771395    4971390    5049000    5052866    5217821   5691653   5751653   5789443   5964443
Population based on 1991           7680294    7680294    7680294    7680294    7680294   7680294   7680294   7680294   7680294
census
Percentage coverage                 62.13      64.73       65.74      65.79      67.94     74.11      74.89     75.38      77.66
Source: Kerala Water Authority
4.55



Table 4.23
Rural Water Supply Coverage Status under the RGNDWM in Kerala State
SI.No.             District  No. of NN   No. of NC   No. of PC   No. of FC   Total
habitations  habitations  habitations  habitations
1.    Kasaragod                          3          336          79      418
2.    Kannur                 --           4         419          76      499
3.    Wayanad                 1           5         228          56      290
4.    Kozhokkode              1          33         595          71      700
5.    Malappuram              1          109        757         169      1036
6.    Palakkad                -          37         758          143     938
7.    Thrissur                1          51         711         221      984
8.    Ernakulam               4         .43          554         134     735
9.   Idukki                  --          177         289         83      549
10.   Kottayam                1          111         509         127      748
11.   Alappuzha               3          140         408         117      668
12.   Pathanamthitta          1           62         417          57      537
13.   Kollam                             119         583         131      833
14.   Thiruvananthapuram                  96         527         218      841
RGNDWM- Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water Mission
NN    -      Not accessible and Not covered habitations
NC    -      Not covered habitations
PC    -      Partially covered habitations with water supply level less than 40 lpcd
FC    -      Fully covered habitations with water supply level above 40 Ipcd.
Source       Kerala Water Authority.
4.56



The total number of fully covered habitations (water supply more than 40 Ipcd)
are only 1682. Existing piped water supply schemes in the state account for only 1008
mld of which the loss due to leakages in distribution is about 30%.
A large proportion of the rural population of Kerala continues to depend for their
daily water needs on open dug wells, the density of which is one of the highest in the
country. The existing schemes implemented by the various agencies such as the Kerala
Water Authority (KWA), Ground Water Department and the local bodies have proved
inadequate to meet the growing demand of the population, and the gap between the
demand and supply of drinking water is widening year after year. Lack of funds and
inadequate infrastructure have remained as the major constraints in the coverage and
timely implementation of water supply projects. The state's present water policy gives
priority to drinking water supply, and the GoK is framing a legislation to regulate the
extraction of ground water to enable efficient management of the ground water
resources of the state.
Water Quality Assessment of Dug Wells in Selected Panchayats of Project Districts
In the backdrop of complaints from the public of poor quality of water supplies in
rural areas of Kerala and as a part of the preparatory phase for the proposed KRWSS
Project, a study - 'Water Quality Assessment of selected Panchayats' (in the project
districts), on water quality of traditional sources in six Panchayats viz; Kunnummel
(Kozhikkode District), Nediyiruppu and Pookottoor (Malappuram District), Mundathikode
(Thrissur District), Erumayoor (Palakkad District and Orumanayoor, a very thickly
populated panchayat in Thrissur District has been undertaken. The objective of the study
was to determine the water quality of traditional sources in the project area and to suggest
appropriate mitigative measures to minimise the contamination in the well waters.
4.57



One time water samples from 233 open dug wells and five bore wells serving as
sources of rural water supplies in the study were collected and analysed for physico
chemical and bacteriological parameters. The selection of the sources was preceded by a
detailed reconnaissance survey of the Panchayath. The final selection of the sources was
made keeping in view the local soil characteristics, distance from farm land/agricultural
fields, distance from household leach pits and waste dumps, the ownership of the wells,
the environmental conditions, the hydrogeological position and the density of the
population in the area to ensure that the sources were truly representative. A detailed
sanitary survey of the selected sources was also undertaken using standard format.
A summary of the results of physico-chemical and bacteriological analyses of
water samples collected during the study is presented in Tables 4.24, 4.25 and 4.26. The
study has shown that almost all the samples tested were bacteriologically contaminated,
and therefore unfit for drinking (Table 4.26). A large number of distributed sources of
contamination such as leach pits, compost yards, unsanitary surroundings of the wells,
poor construction and maintenance of the wells, pollution from improper disposal of spill
water, the method of water withdrawal from the wells and bird droppings seem to
contribute to the bacteriological contamination. The main physical parameters of poor
water quality relate to pH, turbidity, chlorides, hardness and iron. Fluoride and nitrate
levels were well within the permissible limits for drinking water. Representative water
samples were also analysed for the presence of pesticides. None of the samples,
however, showed the presence of any pesticide residue.
4.58



Table 4.24
Range, Mean and Standard Deviation of various water quality Parameters of the pilot Panchayaths
Kunnummal Panchayath                 Nediyirippu Panchayath                 Pookottoor Panchayath
Parameter         Range         Mean         S.D.       Range        Mean         S.D.        Range        Mean         S.D.
Turbidity              0.21-6.7       0.93        1.23       0.1-14.8      2.14         3.16      0.1-11.2       2.06         2.5
NTU
pH                     5.11-7.6      5.953        0.59      5.19-6.64       5.9        0.374      5.55-7.36      6.29        0.45
Electrical Conductivity    45-200    86.675       39.33      52-174        89.44       36.26       39-255        101.3       49.85
g mho/cm
Alkalinity              4.0-56        25          13.74       8.0-64       21.28       10.78       8-184         27.5        29.42
TDS                     40-110       59.25        20.5       40-140        65.97       26.32       20-180        75.63       38.65
Total Hardness           8-47         20.2        11.51       4.0-58       16.06       10.91        6-162        21.54       26.26
Calcium                 0.8-16        5.51        3.93       0.6-13.6      3.56         2.55       1.6-25.6      4.1         3.41
Magnesilu              0.48-5.3       1.51        1.03       0.27-6.4      2.08         1.5       0.48-23.8      3.35        4.55
m
Chloride                10-60        23.73        10.4        8-162        18.72       10.08       4.0-36        13.4         7.7
Fluoride              0.01-0.16       0.03        0.034    0.013-0.092     0.063       0.024     0.013-0.081     0.045       0.024
Iron                   0.02-0.8       0.12        0.19      0.02-0.42      0.171       0.099       0.16-2.1      0.983        0.67
Nitrate                0.26-28        5.6         5.37      0.26-31.89     6.196        8.6       0.256-24.8     6.87         7.5
Suilphate               0.5-9         1.81        1.66        1-2.5         1.42        0.52        0.5-2        1.13         0.48
contd..
4.59



Parameter            Mundathikode Panchayath              Orumanayoor Panchayath                 Erimayoor Panchayath
Range        Mean         S.D.       Range        Mean         S.D.        Range        Mean         S.D.
Turbidity               1-20         2.85        3.61         1-57         6.8         10.76        1-56         5.9         12.04
NTU
pH                    6.85-8.56      7.96         0.43      4.45-8.95      7.91        0.88       8.08-9.32      8.7         0.24
Electrical             54-362       132.75       77.07      136-4026      684.91       745.4      119-1888      452.89      380.34
Conductivity
.imho/cm
Alkalinity              13-86       30.775       15.49       8-240        83.09        65.9        28-308       105.12       62.67
TDS                    40-280        10.75       58.55      100-3020      521.69      564.74      90-1420       342.62      284.94
Total Hardness         22-102        44.5        22.33       48-904       184.59      176.86      40-438         143         82.79
Calcium                4-25.6        8.68         5.12      6.4-296       48.18        57.28       8-76.8       29.44        16.65
Magnesiu              1.9-14.09      5.46         2.81    0.972-52.488     14.79       12.61     1.63-59.29     16.72        12.21
m
Chloride                8-78         21.95       15.34      30-2000       207.59      390.45       16-464       72.09       84.521
Fluoride              0.05-0.91      343         0.27      0.041-0.524    0.104        0.083      0.06-0.61      0.24        0.15
Iron                  0.01-0.99       0.2        0.23       0.03-2.18     0.165        0.371      0.01-1.48     0.212        0.29
Nitrate               0.44-35.44     5.53         7.52     0.04-51.39      9.16        13.24     0.044-27.98     5.25        6.08
Sulphate               0.01-9        2.39         2.38        3-83         14.93        16.8       0.1-35        5.75        6.51
Note: All values except pH turbidity and electrical conductivity are expressed in mg /1
4.60
C,     A



Table 4.25
Physical & Chemical analysis of water samples from selected bore wells of the pilot panchayaths
Source of sample/Date of collection
o 0              .                  Bore well     Danida Kondotty-      RWSS      RWSS to Athani  TWSS
z       Ig       ._      Kunnummal        Cheekode WSS      Pookkoottor   Mundathikkode Erimayoor
Panchayat   Nediyiruppu panchayat    Panchayat   panchayat   Panchayat
0-4               .17.01.2000               07.02.2000        25.01.2000    19.01.2000   22.10.1999
I     pH                  6.5-8.5       6.8              8.06             7.35           8.7          7.2
2     Tur        NTU         5          69               0.60             0.20            13           8
3     Alk        Mg/L       200         122              ....                            60           116
4     TDS        Mg/L       500         ....             220               40            160
5     EC                      .         240              319               77            205         446
ji mho/cm            ...                                   .
6     TH         Mg/L       300         98               208               86            86          230
7     Ca 2+      Mg/L       75          36              43.28             8.02           15.2        17.64
8     Mg2+       Mg/L       30          1.94             24.3             16.03         11.66        45.19
9     Cl -       Mg/L       250         16               104               22             12          28
10    F          Mg/L        1         0.04              ....              Nil          0.86         0.90
_1   Fe 2+       Mg/L      0.30         1.4              Nil               Nil          0.40         0.54
12    No 3-      Mg/L       45         0.35              ....              ....
13    Res C12   ppm                     Nil              0.20              Nil           Nil          Nil
4.61



Table 4.26
Bacteriological Contamination in Drinking Water Sources (wells) in the Four Pilot Districts
S No         Name of        No of samples                              No of samples +ve for   % Samples
panchayat/District   (Wells) Tested                                                    unfit for
Total           Fecal           Fecal             drinking
Coliform         Coliform      Streptococci
1.         Kunnummal             40             38              37               38               95
(Kozhikode)
2.
Nediyeruppu
(Malappuram)          36             36              34               35               100
3.
Pookkottur
(Malappuram)          40             40              39               40               100
4.
Mundathikode
(Thrissur)          40              40             35                40              100
5.
Orumanayoor
(Thrissur)           35            28              27                26               80
6.
Erimayoor
(Palakkad)           42             42              42               40               100
4.62



Based on the findings, the study has made the following recommendations/
mitigation measures.
*  Effective disinfection of all water supplies based on open wells.
*  A systematic and regular water quality monitoring and control should be in place to
ensure safe drinking water.
*  A manual of practice for sanitary construction and maintenance of wells should be
brought out for the benefit of all the Panchayats.
*  Covering of the wells to minimise contamination from bird droppings.
*  Appropriate solid and liquid waste management to be encouraged in the rural areas to
minimise the risk of ground water contamination.
o  An effective awareness programme on environmental sanitation and personal hygiene
should be implemented in the project districts.
Water Quality Improvement Programme of KWA
At present there are 1412 pucca rural water Supply schemes and 5Ourban water
supply schemes in operation under the control of Kerala Water Authority. The
conventional treatment process being followed in Kerala for treating raw water to
drinking water standards are as follows
1. For schemes with ground water as source, only disinfection by chlorination is being
practiced.
2. For schemes with ground water as source, which contains excess iron, aeration and
excess lime treatment followed by sedimentation, filtration and disinfection are
being practiced.
3. For small water schemes up to 2.5 mld capacity with surface water source where the
turbidity is low, plain sedimentation followed by slow sand filtration and disinfection
are the process adopted.
4. For high turbid surface water schemes with more than 2.5 mld capacity, the process
4.63



being adopted are aeration, coagulation and flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and
disinfection
The urban water supply schemes are provided with conventional treatment units,
whereas most of the rural water supply schemes have infiltration gallery at intake
followed by disinfection (chlorination) process before the water is distributed through the
distribution net work
Water quality monitoring set up:
Though the water supplied through the distribution network is subjected to various
treatment processes, strict quality monitoring and surveillance at the treatment and
distribution ends are required for ensuring water quality standards.
The quality control programme was commenced in the field of water supply under
the Kerala Water Authority in 1990, with three Regional Laboratories, ie. at Aluva,
Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram. A quality monitoring cell established under the
Chief Engineer, IPD evaluated performance of the quality monitoring programme and
evolved new programmes and proposals to ensure water quality standards and a new up
for ensuring State wide implementation of satisfactory quality control activities was
established in the year 1995.
At present, there are two quality control divisions, each headed by an Executive Engineer,
one at Aluva and the other at Kozhikode. Also, there are four regional laboratories headed by
the Assistant Executive Engineer at Thrissur, Kannur, Tiruvananthapuram and Thiruvalla
District laboratories headed by Assistant Engineers have been established at Kasaragod,
Waynad, Malappuram, Palakicad, Alappuzha, and Kollam. Two more district laboratories, one
at Iduicki, and Kottayam will be made functional. The basic water quality tests on a day to day
4.64



basis is done by the Operation & Maintenance (O&M) wing and periodical returns are sent
them to the Quality Control Wing for monitoring and suggesting corrective measures.
The Quality Control Wing of the KWA undertakes the following surveillance
activities:
i.    Collection of raw water and treated water samples from water supply schemes.
ii.    Subjecting the samples collected to physical, chemical and bacteriological tests at
specified intervals and checking whether the water conforms to water quality standards.
iii.   Furnishing the results of the tests to the concerned officers in charge of operation
& maintenance of the water supply schemes to apply corrective measures, if any,
required to ensure quality standards to the water supplied.
iv.   Conducting quality tests on chemicals used in treatment plants.
Even with this available set up, strict water quality monitoring is not found
effective and hence the system requires improvement. Adequate emphasis has to be given
to the area of quality monitoring and surveillance programme.
Total Sanitation Program of Kerala Government
The Government of Kerala have a programme of total sanitation and health in the
state. As per a study conducted by the Indian Market Survey, sanitation coverage in
Kerala is only 51.3%, rural household coverage is 44% and only 32% of the households
living below the poverty line have latrines.  The objective of the total sanitation
programme is to cover the entire state within a time frame of three years. The actual
areas for coverage and funding source for the project are being finalised. The subsidy for
latrines under this programme has been standardised at Rs. 2,000/- per latrine.
The planning, design and implementation of different components of
environmental sanitation are to be carried out through an integrated activity of local
4.65



community, local body authority, departments / agencies and NGOs with total
transparency. The same methodology of the on-going People's planning Campaign
initiated by the Kerala Government is being adopted for identifying, planning and design
of various programme components.
4.4. Summary Observations
The salient points arising from a review of the secondary data, and the limited
primary data generated in connection with the proposed project could be summarised as
follows.
1. Despite the high average annual rainfall in the state and in the project districts, its
spatial and temporal distribution is not uniform within the state and within the same
district. The highly undulating topography is not conducive for retention of
precipitation which is drained off quickly. Thus, the per capita availability of water
resources in the state is much less than in many other dry states in the country
resulting in water scarcity during summer months.
2. Due to several constraints such as topography, distance, risk of salinity intrusion, and
the need for treatment the scope for tapping economically river sources for the
proposed rural water supply schemes is limited.
3. Surface waters in rivers especially in the lower reaches are polluted by municipal and
industrial discharges and by salinity intrusion from the sea.
4. As per the estimates of ground water potential and its utilisation by various agencies,
the level of ground water utilisation in the state and in the project districts has not
exceeded 45% excepting in some isolated pockets thus leaving still a significant
scope for utilisation.
4.66



5. Ground water in the state in general and in the project districts is, by and large, of
potable physico-chemical quality except in certain areas which suffer from high
concentrations of Cl, F and Fe.
There is wide spread fecal contamination of open dug well waters and some bore well
waters due to the existence of a large number of non-point sources of pollution such
as pit latrines, septic tanks, barn yards and storm and agricultural run off.
6. Available limited data on public health indicates that the incidence of acute diarrhoeal
diseases and worm infestation is high among the rural population, especially the poor
sections of the people.
7. Extensive sand mining in almost all the rivers has also seriously affected the quantity
and quality of river water in the state.
8. Excessive ground water withdrawal in certain parts of the project districts (Palakkad,
Thrissur) has resulted in the lowering of the ground water table warranting regulatory
measures to arrest the trend.
9. The changing life style of the people, their agricultural practices and land use pattern
have a significant impact on the ground water resources in the state.
4.5. Public Consultations
A unique feature of the proposed KRWSS project is its bottom-up planning
process. Following the 73rd and 74th Constitution Amendments, the GoK has taken major
initiatives to decentralize all relevant functions to local institutions with adequate
financial backing and infrastructure support. The felt needs of the people are discussed in
the neighbourhood groups, locally known as 'ayalkootams' and the communities are
mobilised from the ward level to the panchayat level culminating in the form of well
4.67



defined development proposals for implementation by the local institutions. Thus, the
proposed project should be viewed as one primarily conceived, planned and developed by
the beneficiary communities themselves with the full knowledge and understanding of
their stakes in the project.
However, as part of the EA study and in keeping with the Bank's OP 4.01, public
consultations were held in the pilot GPs in the four project districts. The purpose of these
consultations was to identify new issues, if any, including alternatives to the project that
need to be addressed in the project design. These consultations were held with not only
the target groups at the grass root level but also with other partners in the development
effort such as ward members, standing committee chairmen, panchayat presidents and
members of support organisations.
The EA Consultant's programme of public consultations along with a record of
the consultations held is at Annexure II. A summary of the main points that emerged
from these consultations is given below.
Nediyeruppu Panchayat (Malappuram district)
-     There exists a problem of water scarcity in summer as many dug well sources dry up.
*     Water supply to the panchayat from the existing DANIDA assisted scheme based
on bore wells is inadequate.
*     People are dissatisfied with the quantity and quality of existing supplies and want
surface water from river Chaliyar to be tapped to meet the requirements of the
panchayat.
*     People are willing to consider roof catchment of rain water if subsidy is made
available to them.
*     No problem is anticipated in acquiring privately owned sources of good yield for
public water supply.
4.68



Pookkottur Panchayat (Malappuram district)
*     Though source is not a problem for the 4 existing water supply schemes in the
panchayat, there is inequity in distribution of water.
As the yield from (existing) ground water sources is reliable, dug wells / bore
wells will form the sources for the new schemes. Need for rain water harvesting is
not envisaged.
*     While the coverage of individual household sanitation is high (90%), there is no
organised system of sanitary disposal of hospital and slaughter house wastes.
Kunnummal Panchayat (Kozhikode district)
3     During summer months, many dug wells go dry and there is a potential risk of
existing private dug wells going dry when new sources are fitted with high
capacity pumps.
*     No difficulty is envisaged in acquiring private lands/water sources for the new
schemes.
*     Watershed management programme should be implemented concurrently with the
water supply schemes to ensure source sustainability.
The potential risk of ground water contamination in the area will be minimal as
the number of new latrines to be installed under the project is small.
Mundathikode Panchayat (Thrissur district)
For the proposed schemes, the per capita water supply will be kept flexible
depending on the yield of the source.
Serious concerns were express regarding the poor quality of water supplies are
public as well as private sources (dug wells)
*     People are willing to donate land for locating new sources. The potential risk of
hydraulic interference of new and existing sources is recognised.
4.69



* Local women will be able to find more time for productive work after the
construction of piped water supply schemes.
*     People already having deep pit latrines would like to retain them as such.
Erimayoor Panchayat (Palakkad district)
*     Some issues / concerns, not identified now, may come up at the time of
implementation of the proposed schemes.
*     In view of the existing KWA schemes and the proposed WB assisted schemes two
types of water tariffs may exist in the panchayat.
*     To resolve the potential problem of hydraulic interference between the existing
and new sources, there must be some directive / stipulation from the government.
3     Acquisition of land for siting new sources has to be done through persuation.
3     A few sections of the community want improved water supply and sanitation but
are not yet willing to participate financially as they do not have to pay for the
services from the existing KWA schemes. Some households having their own
wells are also wary of participation in the project. (The project familiarisation
campaign is in the initial stages).
The local community is of the view that in discriminate sand mining in the nearby
Gayathri river is the main cause of their water supply problem, which did not
exist a few years ago. They complained of the poor quality of water supplied from
the existing systems.
4.70



Summary of Main Issues
The public consultations with the target beneficiaries and other partners to the proposed
water and sanitation project in the pilot GPs bring forth the following main issues which
need to be addressed in the project design.
1. Sustainability of yield from the new sources for the proposed water supply schemes
with minimal interference to the existing sources, and flexibility in the per capita
water supply depending on source yield.
2. Ensuring bacteriologically safe, potable water supply to the public at all times.
3. To mitigate the potential risk of hydraulic interference between the existing and new
sources, the government should enforce regulatory measures.
4. Watershed management programmes should be implemented concurrently with the
water supply schemes to ensure source sustainability.
5. The problem of safe disposal of hospital and slaughter house wastes in Pookkottur
panchayat.
6. Need for effective promotional campaigns and community awareness programmes to
elicit the participation of people in the proposed project.
4.71



5. IMPACT IDENTIFICATION AND ANALYSIS
5.1 Preamble
The proposed KRWSS Project can be considered as comprising three phases: i)
the planning phase, ii) the construction phase, and iii) the post construction or the
operational phase with the component activities as under:
Planning phase:
* Health, Sanitation, Hygiene Education (HSHE) & environmental awareness campaigns
* Demonstration plants for solid waste, drainage and sullage disposal
 Identification of technology options for source, water treatment and distribution, and
safe sanitation
* Site identification and selection for source location and service reservoir
construction
* Taking possession/acquisition of land for the above
Construction phase:
* Rehabilitation of existing water supply schemes
* Construction of wells(sources), over head (OH) service reservoirs and laying of water
distribution pipelines.
* Construction of water conservation structures
* Installation of on-site sanitation systems
* Drainage and sullage disposal systems
* Solid waste treatment systems for wastes from market sources, slaughter houses and
hospitals
5.1



Operation phase:
* Ground water abstraction and use
*  Use of on-site sanitation systems
*  Awareness and HSHE Programmes
*  Operation of drainage, sullage and solid waste disposal systems
*  Institution capacity building
The potential environmental impacts arising from the activities of the proposed project
have been identified, classified as positive/negative and presented in a matrix form in Table 5.1.
These are discussed hereunder.
5.2 Pre-construction phase Impacts:
Land acquisition and monetary compensation:
Under the proposed project, about 2000 community water supply schemes are to
be installed in about 100 GPs spread over the four project districts. For more than 90%
of the schemes, the source will be ground water tapped through dug wells or bore wells.
The sources could also be existing public/ private wells. While the sources established in
public lands could be readily taken over, private lands have to be acquired through
voluntary donation or outright purchase.
Preliminary assessment in the project districts indicates that land will have to be
made available for 1360 (64%) sources. The total land requirement at the rate of two
cents (100 cents = I acre) per scheme for the project as a whole will be a maximum of
27.2 acres. As the schemes will be planned, implemented, operated and maintained by the
beneficiary communities, the lands, to a large extent, will be obtained from among them.
5.2



Table 5.1
Kerala Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project
Environmental Impact Matrix
SI.No.       Project Phase / Components                                        Potential Environmental Impacts
Positive                                       Negative
Planning phase                         Primary
*  Appreciation of environmental and sustainability  Pima
*  Health, Sanitation, Hygiene             issues of the proposed project by the beneficiary   *  Cash compensation, i f any, for land
Education (HSHE) & environmental       community.                                       acquisition
awareness campaigns
.* Community's willingness for informed
*   Demonstration plants for solid waste   prCo iptio secured.
drainage and sullage disposal          partcipation secured.
. Technology options for source        *  Collective decision by community regarding
(wells) water distribution and safe    technology choice and service levels
sanitation
*  Site identification and selection for
source location and service reservoir
construction
*  Taking possession / acquisition of
land for the above
2.    Construction Phase                     Primary
* Rehabilitation of existing water         Employment opportunities for local technicians /
supply schemes                         artisans, NGOs and private sector
*  Construction of wells (sources), OH
service reservoirs and laying of water
distribution pipe lines
*  Construction of water conservation
structures
5.3



  Installation of on-site sanitation systems
.  Drainage and sullage disposal
systems
*  Solid waste treatment systems for
waste from market sources,
slaughter houses and hospital s
3.   Operation phase                        Primary
.  Ground water abstraction and use   *  Availability of adequate supply of safe water on  Pnmary
a sustainable basis including in summer months   *  Increased ground water abstraction
* Use of on-site sanitation systems
*  Labour and time saving in fetching water     *  Risk of hydraulic interference between
*  Employment opportunities for local              existing and new dug / bore well sources
*  Operation of drainage, sullage and     technicians/artisans, NGOs and private sector  *  Risk of ground water contamination
solid waste disposal systems
*  Reduction in soil and surface water          *  Cash compensation
contamination
.  Financial burden on community and local
*  Improved community awareness/knowledge on       body (GP)
water health, sanitation and environment leading
to behavioral changes
*  Reduction in surface runoff, increase in ground   Secondary
water recharge, halt to declining water table and
improved sustainability and perenniallity of  *  Risk of lowering of ground water table
water supply sources                        *  Risk of saline water intrusion especially in
*  Reduction in soil erosion, turbidity and sediment  coastal areas
load in stream / river flows and promotion of
vegetation cover
Secondary
* Opportunities for income generation by women
* Improved personal and environmental hygiene
and health
5.4



The project does not envisage any involuntary land acquisition, and mechanisms
are being developed to ensure voluntarism. Further, lands will not also be acquired from
those with land holdings less than a stipulated size.
Likewise, the watershed management component of the project may involve
construction of water and soil conservation structures on lands owned by individual
households or on public land or both. The number and type of structures to be built and
the land area required will be decided, case by case, depending on site specific
considerations. A similar approach as above will be adopted with respect to land
acquisition. Thus, the issue of land acquisition will not have any socio environmental
impact.
5.3. Construction phase Impacts:
The major activity during this phase will consist of earth work/trench excavation,
transportation of materials of construction and actual construction work. The individual
schemes will be of small scale serving on an average 50-80 households with the participation
of the beneficiary community in cash/kind. The construction phase of the project as such will
not cause any adverse environmental impact but would provide significant employment
opportunity for local technicians/artisans, NGOs and private sector.
5.4. Operation phase Impacts:
Positive impacts:
Access to adequate quantity of safe water on a sustainable basis:
The most significant positive impact of the project in the operation phase will be
the availability of adequate quantity of safe water, piped to individual households on a
5.5



sustainable basis all through the year, thus meeting a basic need for a healthy, productive
life. The water supply schemes will be designed to deliver 70 lpcd normally and a
minimum of 40 lpcd even during summer.
Reduction in Drudgery in Water Collection and Generation of Income Opportunities:
The proposed water supply schemes will ensure a better service delivery which
would enable and promote safe water at convenient points within the individual premises.
This will largely eliminate/reduce the drudgery in fetching the daily water needs by
women and children. The time and labour saved due to the better and more convenient
service could provide opportunities for income generation, especially for women. For
individual households with their own wells fitted with power pumps, the recurring
expenditure on consumption of eleitricity and on 0 & M of pumps would be minimised.
However, part of this benefit will be off set by the fact that the individual households
have to pay their share towards the cost of 0 & M of the public facility.
Improved Personal and Environmental Hygiene
Availability of adequate quantity of safe water through the new schemes would
promote personal and environmental hygiene which is presently of a low order among
the community.  This impact will be enhanced through a regular and continuing
programme of health and hygiene education targeted on the beneficiary population.
The on-site sanitation schemes, sullage/drainage schemes and construction of
solid waste/ garbage disposal systems under the proposed project would help minimise
soil and surface water contamination. These activities will bring about a significant
5.6



reduction in the incidence of acute diarrhoeal and other w~ater borne diseases which are
widely prevalent in the project districts.
Employment opportunities
The proposed project involves operation and maintenance of large number of small
water supply systems and watershed management structures. This will generate significant
employment opportunities to the local technicians and NGOs which in turn will have a positive
impact on the income levels of the wage earners and small entrepreneurs.
Water and Soil Conservation
The construction of large number of water conservation structures of various
types to suit the local conditions will reduce surface run off, improve ground water
recharge, minimise soil erosion, promote growth of vegetation and arrest/reverse the
declining trend in ground water level observed in certain areas such as in Palakkad.
These measures would also help in achieving the sustainability and perenniality of water
supply sources.
Community Capacity Building and Self Reliance
The bottom-up planning and decision making which are essential ingredients of
the proposed project would generate and promote among the beneficiary communities a
sense of pride and self reliance, and enhance their capacity building in other sectors of
community development.
Reduced Financial Burden on State
Due to active participation of the beneficiary community in all stages of planning
and implementation of the project, including sharing of capital costs of the schemes and
5.7



meeting the total 0 & M expenditure, there will be reduced financial burden on the state.
This would facilitate increased coverage of population by the state with the available
government funds.
Potential Negative Impacts
Increased Groundwater Abstraction
Most of the community water supply schemes under the proposed project will be
based on local groundwater sources tapped through dug wells/bore wells fitted with
power pumps. The schemes also envisage supply of water to individual households
through yard connections. Due to the higher service levels and the convenience the new
systems will afford to the consumers, the per capita consumption of water is expected to
increase than at present. This would lead to increased abstraction of ground water in the
area. The projected water demand for domestic use in the year 2021 with a per capita
consumption of 160 lpd for the entire state is 3230 Mm3.*  This constitutes only about
6.5% of the total projected demand. Considering the fact that the level of groundwater
utilisation does not exceed 40% of the utilisable resources in any of the project districts
except in isolated pockets, this would not cause any impact on the ground water regime.
The proposed legislation on groundwater would also enable regulation of ground water
abstraction to prevent any adverse environmental impact:
* Water Scenario of Kerala (January 1998): State Committee on Science, Technology
and Environment, Govt. of Kerala.
5.8



Lowering of Ground Water Table
As per available data on long term trend in water level in the state, there has been
a decline in the ground water level in certain parts of Palakkad, Kozhikkode and
Thrissur indicating that mining of water is taking place (Fig. 4.3, 4.4 & 4.5). Creation of
additional/new sources in such critical areas may increase the gravity of the situation
unless proper siting of the new sources is ensured, compensatory water conservation
measures are implemented concurrently, and ground water legislation is passed
expeditiously.
Hydraulic Interference between existing and new sources
A majority of households in the GPs of the four project districts have their own
wells which are also used to meet/supplement their domestic water supply needs. When
a high yielding source is located for a new scheme in the area, there is a potential risk of
hydraulic interference with the existing sources in the vicinity. In extreme cases, the
nearby sources may dry up. This problem could be minimised/eliminated by siting of the
new sources with recourse to scientific methods.
Risk of Ground Water Contamination
Studies on water quality of wells used as traditional drinking water sources in the
state have been undertaken by several agencies such as CWRDM( in Palakkad, Thrissur
and Thiruvananthapurm), Centre for Environment and Development (in five coastal
panchayats in Thiruvananthapuram district), SEUF (in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam,
Thrissur, Kozhikkode, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta Districts). All these studies have shown
widespread faecal contamination of the wells, the percentage of contaminated wells being
5.9



as high as 100%. A just concluded study undertaken as part of the preparation phase of
the proposed project in six GPs in the four project districts has confirmed the widespread
faecal contamination of the community wells. One time water samples collected from
233 open dug wells and 5 bore wells have shown that almost all the samples were
bacteriologically contaminated. The study has also established that several distributed
sources of pollution contribute to the ground water contamination.  These include
insanitary surroundings of the wells, poor construction and maintenance of wells,
proximity of leach pits, manure pits, bird droppings, etc.
The construction of a large number of on-site sanitation systems under the
proposed project may also pose the risk of ground water contamination unless safe
sanitation technologies best suited to the local conditions are selected and installed and
adequate preventive and corrective measures are implemented. The preventive measures
would include sanitary protection of water supply sources and proper siting of new
sources. The single most important corrective measure is to ensure continuous, effective
chlorination of all water supplies.
Risk of Salinity Intrusion in Coastal Areas
In coastal areas, especially in some parts of Kozhikkode and Malappuram
districts, where the fresh water resources are limited or saline water intrusion is already
evident, tapping of ground water for the new schemes may aggravate the situation,
unless due precautions are taken in siting of the new sources and abstraction of ground
water is regulated. Alternatively, distant fresh water sources may have to be tapped,
which would increase the capital cost of the scheme.
5.10



Financial Burden on Community
The proposed project incorporates a demand driven approach to water supply and
sanitation service delivery with financial participation by the individual beneficiary
households, the local GP and the GoK. Further, the total responsibility for 0 & M of the
newly constructed water supply schemes will rest with the community. Thus, there will
be an increase in financial burden on the community. However, part of this burden will
be off set by the savings in recurrent cost of 0 & M of individually owned water supply
systems currently in use. The mitigatory measures for the potentially negative impacts
can be easily designed and implemented to eliminate/minimise the impacts.
Conclusion
In sum, the overall impact of the project on the beneficiary communities and the
environment is expected to be positive resulting in an improvement in the quality of life
of the people in the project area.
5.3. Analysis of Alternatives
No project scenario
The proposed KRWSS project is aimed at improving the quality of rural water
supply and environmental sanitation service delivery to achieve sustainability of
investment and generate health and income benefits. The felt need for the project has its
genesis in the following key issues.
Despite the high rainfall (3000mm/annum) in the state the rivers tend to go dry after the north
east monsoons and the drought is becoming increasingly severe year after year. Any significant
deviations in the normal rainfall pattern lead to dry spells and acute drought conditions. In
some cases, depletion of sources during summer season is also a problem.
5.11



The high density of population, higher per capita consumption in comparison with
the national average and the increasing aspirations of the people lead to enhanced
demand in the drinking water sector. The potable water sources available in the coastal
belts of Kerala with a density of population 5-6 times the national average are being
subjected to rapid environmental degradation including salinity intrusion in ground water.
The existing schemes implemented by water supply agency such as the KWA,
Ground Water Department and the local bodies own their own and under the
International Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (1981-1991) as also the Rajiv Gandhi
National Drinking water Mission have proved inadequate. The percentage of rural
population covered till 1/4/99 is only 51%. Which is much lower than the coverage in
most other Indian states. The gap between demand and supply of drinking water is widening
year after year given the fact that the water demand for the population is estimated to double
every 21 yeas. The sanitation coverage in the state is only 51.3%, rural house hold coverage is
44% and only 32% of households below poverty line have latrines. Lack of funds and
inadequate infrastructure have remained as the major constraints in the coverage and timely
implementation of water supply and sanitation project in the state.
High incidence of water borne diseases continues to occur among the rural
communities in the project districts. Lack of adequate safe water supply, safe sanitation
and poor personal and community hygiene habits are the major causes for this situation.
As per the statistics of the Department of Health Services of Kerala, there have been
78008 casualties during the year 193-94due to water borne diseases in the district of
Thrissur alone. The corresponding figures for Palakkad District were 65774 and 45131
for the year 1992-93, 93-94 respectively.
5.12



It is quiet evident that if the present scenario continues in future, there would
inevitably be a serious deterioration in this sector so vital for the health, well being and
productivity of the people, and the social and economic development of the state as a
whole. Thus, the proposed integrated rural water supply and environmental sanitation
project is timely not only to halt the present trend but also to enhance the existing levels
of service to meet the legitimate demand of the people on a sustainable basis.
5.13



6. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
6.1 Preamble
The proposed KRWSS project, as discussed earlier, will bring about positive
health and environmental benefits through supply of safe drinking water, provision of
safe on-site sanitation systems, sustained health and hygiene education programmes as
also watershed management programmes aimed at sustainability and perenniality of
community water supply sources. The project is also likely to cause some adverse
environmental impacts depending upon site specific situations encountered in the project
area. Appropriate environmental mitigation measures discussed in this chapter should be
incorporated in the project design so as to eliminate / minimise the adverse impacts and
enhance the net positive benefit due to the project.
6.2 Key Environmental Issues
A critical review of the base line data, observations during site visits and public
consultations clearly bring out the following key environmental issues that need to be
addressed in project design and implementation.
Water Quantity
* The availability of safe drinking water is a serious problem, especially in the summer
months when most of the traditional private dug wells run dry and the public supply from
various sources is inadequate. The problem is very acute for the coastal areas where
traditional dug well sources are saline and the service level from the existing water
supply schemes is meager.
* Declining water table is observed to be an emerging phenomenon in some parts of the
state. The Central Ground Water Board reports decline in water table in the range of 1-3
m for the period 1981 - 1990 in the northem districts of Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad
and in eastem parts of Palakkad district due to a spurt in ground water development
(Long Term Water Level Trend in Kerala for 1981-1990). A recent study by CGWB
(Workshop on Groundwater Regime Monitoring in Kerala, January, 1998) has also
confirmed the decline in water level in some parts of Palakkad district. The study has
6.1



further concluded that increase in groundwater draft is the major cause for this
phenomenon. It is generally observed in the project districts that competing demands for
agricultural and domestic purposes are leading to an increasing use of 'pumps' for liftilg
water from traditional sources, in addition to bore wells. This increasing pressure of
demand for water is not keeping in pace with the annual replenishable recharge of ground
water reserves.
Water Quality
There is wide spread bacteriological contamination of fecal origin in sources of
public drinking water supplies, viz. traditional open dug wells, bore wells and surface
sources.  This is confirned by the findings of various studies including the one
commissioned under this project and public concerns expressed during site visits. Theses
concerns for ground and surface water contamination relate to
*  Close proximity of increasing numbers of leach pit latrines under varying soil conditions,
laterite (midland) and sandy soils (coastal area);
3  Non point sources of pollution in the catchment area including possible agricultural and
surface run off, especially during the rainy season;
,  Washing, bathing and other domestic activities around the open dug well sources,
especially among the low income communities;
*  Inadequate and irregular disinfection of drinking water supplies, including chlorination
under KWA schemes;
* Inadequate testing and irregular monitoring of drinking water quality.
Lack of sanitation and environmental health
The present level of sanitation coverage in the state is only 51.3 %, the rural
household coverage is 44 % and only 32 % of households below poverty line have
latrines. This implies that still a large percentage of rural population resorts to open field
defecation with its associated risk to public health. Open field defecation also constitutes
a major non-point source of pollution of surface and ground waters in addition to soil
contamination. This problem is more acute in densely populated settlements, especially
6.2



in coastal areas. Poor environmental sanitation conditions and personal hygiene habits
and lack of adequate supply of safe water are factors responsible for high incidence of
water bone / water related diseases / deaths among the rural population. This situation
could be remedied to a large extent by increasing the community coverage with
sanitation facilities to achieve 100 % coverage in as short a time frame as possible.
6.3 Mitigation strategy
The mitigation strategy would include the following essential elements:
i)    Formulation of appropriate policies, programmes and priorities as also
enabling legislations.
ii)    Creation / augmentation / restructuring of institutional infrastructure /
framework for implementation.
iii)   Forging effective linkages and ensuring co-ordination between various related
agencies and departments.
iv)   Active involvement and participation of the beneficiary communities through
the panchayati raj institutions.
These are broadly discussed as under
i)    There already exists a well formulated State Water Policy (1992) which has
identified in a comprehensive manner the important issues to be addressed,
the priorities, the short term and long term water management strategies as
also the institutional framework for policy implementation. However, much
remains to be done to make any visible impacts of the policy on the water
sector. For instance, the establishment of Water Resources Control Board
(WRCB) as the apex body to advise the Government on water sector and a
centralised facility for processing, evaluation, storage and dissemination of
hydrological data has not yet been effected. Likewise, concrete action to
regulate uncontrolled extraction of sand from river beds is yet to be initiated.
The state has formulated a legislation to regulate and control the ground
water extraction, but the legislation is yet to be passed. In the context of the
emerging trend of the decline in groundwater level in certain pockets of the
state, there is an urgent need to pass this legislation and to notify these areas
to be brought under the Act.
6.3



ii)    The existing institutional infrastructure with strengthening / restructuring -as
necessary and those proposed / identified in the State Water Policy and the
Kerala Groundwater (Control and Regulation) Act 1997 and that
recommended in this report should be able to cope with the activities
envisaged in the water and sanitation sector.
iii)   The responsibility for implementation of most of the mitigatory measures for
the proposed project will rest with the Beneficiary Committees and Support
Organisations under the overall supervision and guidance of KRWSA. The
DSTE could be assigned the task of preparing the water resources map for the
entire state down to the village level with recourse to remote sensing and
technical backup support from CWRDM, CGWB and the GWD. The data
generated could be shared with all the interested agencies for a fee. There are
a few measures such as bringing in a legislation for regulation and control of
groundwater abstraction which, however, has to be taken up at the
government level with technical backup support from institutions such as
DSTE, CWRDM, CGWB, GWD etc in the enforcement of the Act.
iv)   With the decentralisation process and bottom up planning already in place,
the panchayati raj institutions have to play a lead role in all local development
programmes related to water, sanitation and health. These institutions would
need technical support and training to undertake activities such as measuring
the depth to water level and test for residual chlorine in water supply. In this
task the support organisations have a crucial role in identifying the
information and training needs of the beneficiary committees as also the
appropriate institutions which will provide these inputs. The initial cost for
these inputs has to be met from the project funds.
In the light of the key issues identified and the associated environmental impacts, the
mitigatory measures along with the agencies responsible for action are summarised in
Table 6.1. These are briefly discussed as follows.
6.4



Table 6.1
Summary of Potential Adverse Impacts and Mitigatory Measures
Potential Adverse Impacts                        Mitigatory measure(s)                         Responsibility
>  Instituting an organized survey with recourse to modem  tools and  GWD, DSTE,
techniques such as geophysical methods and remote sensing to locate CWRDM, CGWB
potentially high yielding ground water sources
>  Scientific integrated watershed management at micro level so as to enhance BC, SO, KRWSA
ground water recharge, minimise soil erosion and promote green cover
>  Water scarcity during
summer and decline in  >  Enacting and enforcing appropriate legislation to accord high priority to  GOK
ground water table due    drinking water and to regulate ground water abstraction/prevent water
to over abstraction       mining
>  Providing a flexible per capita water supply (minimum 40 Ipcd during  SO, BC
summer) to match the source yield
>   Roof catchment of rain water in drought - prone and water scarcity areas to  SO, BC
augment drinking water supply
>  Hydraulic interference
between existing and > Adoption of scientific tools & methods for siting of the new sources to SO, GWD
new   dug/bore  well      eliminate / minimise interference
sources
6.5



Potential Adverse Impacts                            Mitigatory measure(s)                             Responsibility
>   Selection of appropriate safe sanitation system to suit the local soil  >   SO, BC
characteristics and hydrogeology
>   Careful siting of the system, and adoption of best construction practices  >   SO, BC
>   Revamping / rehabilitation, wherever economically feasible, of existing  >   SO, BC
>   Risk of contamination of    deep (3m & above) single leach pit latrines which  penetrate the free
ground water sources of     ground water table
rural water supply due to  >   Sanitary disposal of garbage from domestic and market sources and cattle  >   SO, BC
large scale installation of  wastes through composting
systems       a>   Sanitary protection of existing and new dug wells by lining                     >   SO, BC
>   Effective disinfection of water supply from traditional sources to leave a  >   SO, BC
minimum residual Cl2 of 0.5 mg/l
>   An effective and sustained programme of community awareness and  >   SO, BC,
education aimed at promoting personal and environmental hygiene            THSM
>   Salt water intrusion in
fivers identified as water >   Construction of weirs / barrage / bunds across the river ensuring natural / >   ID
rivers idurentifieds  water  artificial flow in summer to flush off pollutants
supply sources
>   Salt water intrusion in
ground water in coastal / >   Regulation of ground water extraction and artificial ground water recharge   >   GOK, SO, BC
back water areas
GWD - Ground Water Department; DSTE - Department of Science, Technology and Environment; CGWB - Central Ground Water Board
CWRDM - Centre for Water Resources Development and Management; BC - Beneficiary Committee; SO - Support Organisation
KRWSA - Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency; GOK - Government of Kerala;
THSM - Total Health and Sanitation Mission
6.6
.1                                                                 C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Water quantity aspects
The strategy for environmental mitigation would consist of both preventive and
corrective measures. Such measures for water quantity aspects include
1.    Proper siting of new sources with recourse to scientific methods to ensure
sustainable yield throughout the year
The State and Central Ground Water Departments, CWRDM and the Dept. of
Science, Technology and Environment of Government of Kerala should play a lead role
in rendering technical assistance to the GPs (local bodies) in identifying and siting of
aquifers of sustainable yield. In this task, recourse should be taken to modem scientific
methods and tools to achieve maximum success rates. The SO/local body should seek
the assistance of these Departments in siting the sources. Once the site is identified with
recourse to scientific tools and techniques, a detailed sanitary survey (Annexure 3) of the
surrounding area should be undertaken so as to identify potential sources of
contamination. Appropriate measures should be taken to eliminate such sources from the
vicinity of the site. Following the construction of a dug well/bore well, the safe yield of
the source should be ascertained by performing a recuperation/pumping test as described
in Annexure 4 during the most critical period ie., summer. Depending on the safe yield,
the per capita water supply has to be decided upon. Complete physico chemical analysis
of the source water has to be conducted and the source commissioned for supply only if
the quality meets with the drinking water standards.
2.    Construction of water conservation structures to enhance ground water recharge
thereby improving the sustainability of the sources
Implementation of integrated water shed management programmes in the project
districts should receive the highest priority to achieve sustainability and perenniality of
the water supply sources. As an integral part of the proposed KRWSS Project, watershed
management components are currently being planned. These schemes will be prepared
jointly by the Agriculture and Ground Water Departments, CWRDM and the local
NGOs. Programmes for these schemes include raised contour building, small check
dams, reservoirs and rain water harvesting for improving sustainability and perenniality
6.7



of the water sources. It would be useful to extend these programmes for addressing
sustainability of fresh water lenses in the coastal areas. The watershed component of the
project is being addressed separately.
As per information from Central Ground Water Board (Ground Water Resources
of Kerala, 1997) in some coastal areas of Thrissur, Malappuram and Calicut Districts, the
coastal alluvium can sustain filter point wells, which are highly productive. Maximum
efforts should be made to identify such locations which could serve as sustainable
sources of fresh water supply to the coastal panchayats.
3.    Installation of rain water-harvesting systems for individual house holds
The high rainfall in the state favours roof catchment of rain water especially in areas
where there is acute scarcity of drinking water during summer months. While there are
not many existing installations in the state, a good beginning has been made in certain
areas such as in Kondotty in Malappuram District, where roof catchment of rain water is
being practiced. The system designed and installed with the assistance of SEUF is being
evaluated for further development and propagation in other areas. A brief description
along with a typical design of the system is in Annexure 5
4.    Providing flexibility in the level of service (per capita supply) in the proposed
schemes
The proposed water supply schemes under the project are being designed for a per
capita supply of 70 lpd with distribution through pipelines to individual household yards.
The supply will be metered in order to ensure equity in distribution and to provide a basis
for water consumption by the individual households. The actual level of service after the
system comes into being will be decided to a large extent by the source yield. Hence,
there needs to be a scope for flexibility so that the service level matches with the source
yield subject to a minimum of 40 lpcd in summer months.
5.    Preventing wasteful consumption of water and ensuring equitable distribution
6.8



In order to minimise wasteful consumption of water, the water tariff should be fixed
so as to impose a penal rate on such consumers. This will discourage the wasteful
consumption.
6.    Enacting legislation to regulate and control groundwater abstraction.
The long term water level trend in Kerala for the period 1981-1990 (CGWB,
February, 1993) indicates a falling trend in water levels in the range of
1-3 m for the period 1981-1990 in the northern districts of Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad
and in eastern parts of Palakkad district.
A recent study (Workshop on Groundwater Regime Monitoring in Kerala, January,
1998) has also confirmed that a decline in groundwater level is observed in certain parts
of Palakkad district. Analysis of dug well data has shown a decline in water level during
post monsoon season in five isolated pockets. The rate of decline is not high except in
Palakkad where it is 30 cm per year. The study has further concluded that increase in
groundwater draft is the major cause for this phenomenon.
The Govenmment of Kerala have already formulated a draft legislation for regulation
of ground water abstraction in the state including the creation of a regulatory authority for
administering the legislation. In the light of the signs of over exploitation in some parts
of the State already evident, urgent action need to be taken to expedite the enactment.
Water quality aspects
1.    Effective and continuous disinfection of all drinking water supplies so as to
maintain a minimum residual chlorine of 0.5 mg/l
Available information on the quality of drinking water supplies in the state clearly
indicates high level of bacterial contamination. This poses a serious risk to public health.
This is confirmed by the high incidence of acute diarrhoeal diseases and other water
bome infections among the people especially the poor sections of the community. This
brings out the need for a system of continuous disinfection of the water supplies. The
traditional wells used as a drinking water sources are reported to be disinfected only
6.9



occasionally, once or twice a year. This is highly inadequate to provide any safety
against contamination.
In the proposed schemes water will be lifted from the source to an overhead
reservoir before distribution. In such a system disinfection of the water being pumped
could be readily achieved by installing a 'displacement type bleaching powder solution
doser in the rising main. The Displacement Doser provides a simple and reliable means
of adding bleaching powder solution to a pipeline under pressure, using differential
pressure created by a venturi tube or orifice plate to impel the solution into the pipeline.
In principle water from the higher pressure upstream side of the venturi tube or orifice is
led to a closed vessel, which has been filled with the solution to be applied and from
which a connection leads to the low pressure throat of the venturi tube on downstream
side of the orifice plate. The difference of pressure causes the water to flow into a closed
vessel, driving the solution in it into the pipeline. In order that the incoming water shall
displace the solution instead of mixing with it, the vessel is divided into two by a flexible
membrane in the form of a sac or a bag, into which the solution is originally placed, and
from which it is expelled by the closing up of the bag by the incoming water. Since the
quantity of solution leaving the bag is equal to the quantity of water entering the vessel, it
is easy to regulate and measure the dose by controlling and measuring the flow of
incoming water. A detailed description of such a system is given in Annexure 6. In the
context of widespread contamination of ground water due to a variety of non-point
sources, chlorination will provide an effective barrier against contamination and ensure
safewater.
2.    Sanitary protection of existing traditional open dug well sources and springs
One of the factors causing pollution in traditional wells serving as water supply sources
is poor construction of the well. Hence, the sanitary protection of such wells and springs will
practically eliminate contamination from the surface through leaching of spill water and storm
and agricultural run off. The technical details of such protection measures are given in
Annexure 7. To cut down the entry of pollution to a minimum in a well, the recommended
interventions are good parapet, good lining, good adequate drain and at least a nylon net cover.
6.10



3.    Establishment/strengthening of institutional arrangements for regular monitoring and
control of water quality from source to distribution
Currently, there is no institution identified for systematic sampling, monitoring and
control of drinking water supplies for schemes maintained by the panchayats. The GOK should
identify an agency to take on this responsibility.
As part of the Indo-Dutch Project, the Kerala State Pollution Control Board is
strengthening its ambient water quality monitoring net work for the various river basins in the
State. A similar initiative should be taken up by other identified agencies such as the Ground
Water Departrnent for monitoring the quality of traditional and other drinking water sources. A
programme for dissemination of water quality information to the local people should also be
undertaken by these agencies.
With the adoption of demand driven, decentralised planning process in the proposed
project, the beneficiary community/panchayat will take on the total responsibility for routine
operation and maintenance of the water supply facilities, which was hitherto the mandate of the
KWA. For routine water quality testing for the new schemes, the services of the existing district
water quality laboratories of the KWA or the laboratories of the GWD, CWRDM and the state
PCB could be utilised. If necessary, these laboratories could be strengthened to take on the
increased work load due to the new schemes. A mechanism has to be worked out by which
water samples could be collected regularly by the BC and delivered to the identified laboratory
for necessary testing. The mechanism should also provide for appropriate compensation for the
services rendered by the testing agency as per mutually agreed terms. Designated persons from
the panchayat should be initially trained by the agency in methods of sample collection,
handling and on spot testing for simple parameters such as residual chlorine.
Following the initial testing of the source water for compliance with the prescribed
water quality standards, seasonal variations in the quality should normally be expected. These
variations, however, will not be very significant. Subsequent routine testing could therefore, be
restricted to residual chlorine only by the trained local operator. This should be done every day
6.11



at the service reservoir and at one of the farthest taps from the reservoir. The farthest tap could
be rotated during each sampling. And once in 3 months, source water quality could be tested
for complete physico-chemical and bacteriological analysis. Compilation of such data will be
useful in assessing the long term trend in water quality-at the source and in the design of future
water supply schemes based on the same source.
The Kerala Water Authority, as part of its strategy for improving the existing institutional
frame work for water quality monitoring and surveillance has proposed a community based 3
tier system which merits consideration. The 3 tier system comprises the panchayat , +2 level
/technical institutions at the grass root level, satellite laboratories at the middle level and the
KWA district laboratory at the apex level. Routine monitoring and control of water quality will
be performed at the lower level using portable kits attached to the panchayat, analysis of more
complex nature and training of water quality monitoring personnel will be taken up by the
satellite laboratories with higher level support from the district laboratory with an appropriate
system of cost sharing. In order to ensure acciracy and reliability of water quality data
generated under the 3 tier system, an exercise in inter laboratory analytical quality control
should be undertaken periodically. The water quality data generated should also be compiled
periodically (at least once in 3 months) and made available for ready access to the public.
The above set up which will have the catchment area as its jurisdiction will also
complement the Information, Education and Communication (lEC) activities of the
panchayats/educational institutions. A pilot scheme of such an institutional set could be taken
up in each of the project districts and based on the experiences the system could be replicated
on a larger scale.
4.     Selection and installation of safe sanitation technologies to suit the local soil
characteristics and hydrogeology so as to minimise ground water contamination.
Extensive work has been done in India and outside on various designs of low cost on-
site sanitation systems for use in areas not provided with conventional sewerage system. These
include the most widely used (in India) pour flush single/two pit latrines, conventional septic
tanks and its variations (eg. SUBO), the Dry Compost Latrine, VIP latrines, Aqua Privies etc.
6.12



Considerable published literature is available on many of these sanitation systems. A
description of some of these is given in Annexure 8.
The selection of a sanitation system is governed by a variety of considerations. The
most important ones are availability of water supply (for flushing and ablution), the local soil
and hydrogeological conditions, the customs and habits of the local people and the cost. The
SOs should play a crucial role in facilitating the choice of appropriate sanitation system for the
site specific situation.
Lateritic soil is predominant in the midland and highland areas of the state while in the
coastal areas the soil is alluvial/sandy. In coastal belts the water table is high and flooding and
water logging are common. The population density is also very high. In such areas communal
latrines connected to a bio-gas plant could be an appropriate sanitation system.
Pollution safeguards for twin pit pour flush latrines
To ensure that the risk of polluting ground water and drinking water sources is
minimal, the following safeguards should be taken while locating the pits:
a.     Drinking water should be obtained from another source or from the same aquifer
but at a point beyond the reach of any fecal pollution from the leach pits.
b.     If the soil is fine (effective size 0.2 mm or less), the pits can be located at a
minimum distance of 3 m from the drinking water sources, provided the
maximum ground water level throughout the year is 2 m or more below the pit
bottom (low water table). If the water table is higher, ie., less than 2 m below the
pit bottom, the safe distance should be increased to 10 m.
c.    If the soil is coarse (effective size more than 0.2 mm), the same safe distances as
specified above can be maintained by providing a 500 mm thick sand envelope,
of fine sand of 0.2 mm effective size, all around the pit, and sealing the bottom of
the pit with an impervious material such as puddle clay, a plastic sheet, lean
cement concrete, or cement stabilised soil.
6.13



d.    If the pits are located under a footpath or a road, or if a water supply main is
within a distance of 3 m from the pits, the invert level of the pipes or drains
connecting the leach pits should be kept below the level of the water main, or 1 m
below the ground level. If this is not possible due to site considerations, the joints
of the water main should be encased in concrete.
5.    Revamping, wherever economically feasible, the existing deep pit latrines
Some of the older installations of pit latrines are deep (>3m) and often penetrating the
free water table thereby providing a direct contact of human excreta with the ground
water. Depending upon site specific conditions, such latrines could be a source of
potential risk to public health. It may be necessary, under such situations, to revamp these
latrines and to convert them into a safe sanitation system.
6.    Increasing environmental awareness regarding water supply, sanitation and
personal hygiene
The high bacteriological contamination of traditional drinking water sources is also
related to personal and community hygiene practices. Programmes related to hygiene education
and awareness are essential to keep the area around the traditional water sources clean. These
will be taken up under the health, sanitation and hygiene education component of the project,
including safe handling of drinking water, disposal of waste water (sullage), personal hygiene,
household hygiene and community environmental sanitation.
3.3. Environmental monitoring and evaluation
In keeping with the identified environmental issues which need to be addressed in
the project design and implementation, and the expected impacts, a list of environmental
performance indicators has been identified along with the agencies responsible for
monitoring (Table 6.2). These, along with the indicators for the other components of the
project, could provide a basis for monitoring and evaluation of the project performance.
6.14



Table 6.2
Performance Indicators
Identified issues           Performance indicators       Monitoring
agency
Water Quantity
*  Scarcity of drinking water    .  Availability of at least 40 lpcd  *  BC
supply during summer           of  drinking  water  during
months                         summer.
.  Decline in ground water table  * No. of wells drying up in summer. *  BC
due to over abstraction
*  Trend in falling ground water *  GWD, BC,
table arrested / reversed       CGWB
.  Reduction in surface run off /
sediment load as measured at
the existing gauging / sampling  o  ID, CWC
stations in the catchment area
*  Legislation to regulate ground  *  GOK,
water exploitation is in place  KRWSA
Water Quality 
.  Bacterial/chemical          a  Daily residual chlorine test at the *  BC
contamination in drinking      service reservoir & public taps
water supplies
*  High incidence of waterbome  *  Independent water quality   *  BC,
diseases and worm             surveillance once in 3-6 months.  Identified
infestation                                                    agency
* No. of wells made sanitary by  *  BC
lining.
*  Decline in the number of ADD  *  BC
cases and if possible worm
infestations.
. No. of awareness programmes .  BC
organised, attendees and simple
pre & post evaluation to assess
the efficiency of training.
6.15



Table 6.2 (Contd...)
Identified issues           Performance indicators       Monitoring
agenCy
*  Lack of sanitation and      * Percentage / Number of house  *  THSM &
environmental health           holds with access to sanitation  BC
and environmental hygiene
facilities
*  Cases of diarrhoea in children  .  THSM &
under five years of age         BC
Solid waste management
* No. of BCs who have installed  *GP
vermi composting plants.     *GP
BC - Beneficiary Committee; GWD - Ground Water Department
CGWB - Central Ground Water Board; ID - Irrigation Department
KRWSA - Kerala Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Agency
GOK - Govt of Kerala; GP - Gram Panchayat.
A note on vermi composting as practiced by North Parur Municipality in Kerala is in
Annexure 9.
6.16



LIST OF REFERENCES
1. Census of India 1991. Series-12 Kerala.
Paper-3 of 1991. Final Population Totals.
2. Statistics Since Independence (1998).
Department of Economics and Statistics, Govt. of Kerala.
3. Ground Water Resources of India (1995). Central Ground Water Board,
Ministry of Water Resources, Govt. of India.
4. Draft Project Concept Document No.II (Sept. 1999).
The Integrated Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Projects in Kerala
State, India by Kerala Water Authority.
5. Water Atlas of Kerala (1995).
Centre for Water Resources Development and Management, Kozhikode.
6. Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network - Chaliyar River Basin (Sept. 1999).
Indo-Dutch Project, Kerala State Pollution Control Board.
7. Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network - Chalakudy River Basin (Sept. 1999).
Indo-Dutch Project, Kerala State Pollution Control Board.
8. Ambient Water Quality Monitoring Network - Bharathapuzha River Basin (Sept.
1999). Indo-Dutch Project, Kerala State Pollution Control Board.
9. Environmental Impact Assessment of Kerala Community Irrigation Project
(Sept.1996). Centre for Water Resources Development and Management, Kozhikode.
10. Water Resources Development of Bharathapuzha Basin - A Status Report
(Nov.1991). Centre for Water Resources Development and Management, Kozhikode.
11. Manual of Individual Water Supply Systems (1973).
Environrnental Protection Agency, Water Supply Division, USEPA.
12. SUBO - The New Eco-Friendly Septic Tank (First Edition, Nov. 1999).
Prof. V.A.Sudhakaran, COSTFORD.
13. Technical Guidelines on Twin Pit Pour Flush Latrines (1992).
Ministry of Urban Development, Govt. of India.
14. P.Basak and G.Anil Kumar.
Water Scenario in Kerala - Vol.I, Kozhikode District (1983), CWRDM, Kozhikode.



15. P.Basak and M.Nazimuddin. Ground Water in the Coastal Belt - Malappuram
District, July 1984. CWRDM, Kozhikode.
16. Water Scenario of Kerala (1998).
Published by State Committee on Science, Technology and Environment, Govt. of
Kerala.
17. Experience of a Pilot Programme on Decentralised Water Supply Systems.
Malappuram District, Kerala.
Technical Support Unit (TSU), Socio-Economic Unit Foundation (SEUF),
Kondotty, Malappuram, Kerala.
18. Pollution of Ground Water Due to Domestic Sewage - Final Report (Dec. 1997),
CWRDM, Kozhikode.
19. Investigations on the Bacterial Quality of Water of Selected Wells in Kerala (Aug.
1991), Kerala State Pollution Control Board.
20. Springs of Kerala - An Inventory (May 1988).
CWRDM, Kozhikode.
21. Deepa, G.D. Water Quality of Selected Open Wells in Cochin Corporation Area
(1998). M.Sc. Dissertation, School of Environmental Studies, Cochin University of
Science and Technology.
22. Long Term Water Level Trend in Kerala for the Period 1981-1990 (Feb. 1993). Govt.
of India, Ministry of Water Resources, Central Ground Water Board, Kerala Region.
23. Ground Water Year Book of Kerala (1996-97). Dec. 1997. Govt. of India, Ministry of
Water Resources, Central Ground Water Board, Kerala Region.
24. Workshop on Ground Water Monitoring in Kerala. 28 Jan, 1998. Central Ground
Water Board, Kerala Region, Thiruvananthapuram.
25. An Investigation of Water Quality Problems Related to Excess Fluoride and Chloride
in Alappuzha and Chertalla Regions. Final Project Report (1997), CWRDM,
Kozhikode.
26. Effect of Industrial Effluents on the Productivity of Chithrapuzha River and Area
Around FACT Cochin Division - Final Project Report (1997), CWRDM, Kozhikode.
27. Coastal Zone Management Plan of Kerala. December 1995 Government of Kerala,
Department of Science Technology and Environment Centre for Earth Sciences
Studies, Thiruvananthapuram
2



28. Final Report of the Committee on Provision of Drinking Water to All by 2000AD Vol
I Main report 1988
29. Census of India 1991. Series 12 - Kerala
Part VII Tables on Houses and House hold Amenities
30. A Bill to Regulate and Control the Extraction, Use or Transport of Ground Water to
Conserve Ground Water in the State of Kerala. (Draft) 1977.
31. IEC  strategy  for Sanitation  and Health Programmes Task  Force Report.
Commissionerate of Rural Development, Thiruvananthapruam, Feb 1990.
32. James, E.J and Sreedharan KE (1983). 'Exchange of fresh and salt waters in the
Beypore estuary on the Malabar coast', Journal of the Institution of Engineers (India),
vol 64.
33. James, EJ (1985). 'Problems in estuarine management in the south-west coast .of
India', Vth World Congress on Water Resources, Brussels.
34. James, EJ (1996). 'Salinity intrusion into rivers and its impact on drinking water
schemes - case studies from south west India', Proc. 3rd National Water Congress,
New Delhi.
3



ANNEXURE - I
'Environmental Analysis' Study for Kerala RWSS Terms of Reference
Background
1.                The primary development objective of the project is to assist
the Government of Kerala in improving the quality of rural water supply and
environmental sanitation service delivery to achieve sustainability of investments
and generate health and income benefits. This will be done through: (a) phased
implementation of appropriate policy and institutional reforms, and (b) delivery of
demand responsive and sustainable water and sanitation services to beneficiary
communities in some select Gram Panchayats from four districts in Kerala.
2.                The specific objectives of the project are:
* to enhance health benefits by improving the delivery of 'safe' water supply and
sanitation services;
* to demonstrate viability of institutional reforms and enhanced cost recovery by
developing, testing and implementing a decentralized service delivery model;
and
to conduct sector development studies for eventual scaling up of the proposed
service delivery model aimed at statewide implementation.
3.                The key components of the project include construction of
new / augmentation / rehabilitation of drinking water schemes, drainage schemes,
household latrines, and environmental management and watershed development
schemes. The Health, Hygiene and Sanitation component of the project includes
A1.1



health and hygiene education programs for safe handling of drinking water, disposal
of waste water -- sullage, personal hygiene, household hygiene and community
environmental sanitation. The integrated watershed management component of the
project includes schemes for improving sustainability and perenniality of the water
sources. The project also includes state wide sector development studies and
programns for improving KWA's O&M cost recovery performance and preparing
river basin plans for the project area.
4. The project will bring about positive health and environmental benefits
through supply of 'safe' drinking water and sanitation, improved water
quality monitoring programs, health and hygiene education programs as
well as watershed programs for source protection. Several enviromnental
mitigation measures will be included in the project design, and the
project is expected to have a net positive effect on the environment. The
project itself will not cause any adverse environrnental impacts.
However, based on information gathered during site-visits, following are
the key environmental concerns related to the Kerala RWSS project:
Water Quantity Issues:
*   availability of 'safe' drinking water, especially in the summer months when most of
the traditional private dug wells run dry' and the public supply is inadequate;
*   declining water tables and competing demands for agricultural and domestic
purposes;
Water Quality Issues:
A1.2



* water quality of public drinking water supplies including bore-wells and
surface sources, in addition to the traditional private dug wells;
*    close proximity (to drinking water Sources) of increasing numbers of leach pit
latrines under laterite soil conditions;
*    non-point sources of pollution in the catchment area including possible agricultural
and surface runoff, especially during the rainy season;
*    inadequate monitoring of drinking water quality;
*    inadequate and irregular disinfection of drinking water supplies, including
chlorination under KWA schemes;
*    washing/bathing and other domestic activities around the open dug well sources,
especially among the low income communities.
5.                 To contribute to the environmental sustainability of the
project, an Environmental Analysis9 Study will collect and analyze information
regarding the environmental issues related to the project and prepare an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), duly integrated in the project. The aim of
the EA study is to analyse the existing environmental issues related to RWSS and
ensure that these inadequacies are addressed or mitigated in the project design.
Objectives
6. The key objective of the Environmental Analysis Study is to recommend
measures for enhancing the positive environmental benefits of the
project. This will be done by integrating appropriate measures to
mitigate any identified adverse environmental impacts, as part of the
project design. Specifically, the EA would:
A1.3



identify and assess the existing environmental issues (with a focus on water quantity and
quality related issues) and how they will be addressed through the various project
Components including activities/tasks under the proposed Kerala RWS S.
recommend an Environment Management Plan (EMP), including performance
indicators for the identified issues.
7. The project components, including safe delivery of water supply and
sanitation, watershed management, health, sanitation and hygiene
education are all expected to contribute positive benefits. Recognizing
these, the consultant should analyze whether the project activities/tasks
are adequate to address the existing environmental issues or not. If not,
appropriate mitigation plans should be prepared in the form of specific
operational guidelines and recommendations should be made regarding
suitable implementation arrangements and performance indicators. The
Consultant should pay particular attention to identify' issues that need to
get main streamed into different project activities.
Scope of Services
8. The study will be based on field visits to pilot GPs, supplemented with
secondary sources of information from various Government Departments
/ Agencies, Institutions and Primary Health Centers, relating specifically
to project area. The specific tasks of the study are to:
(i)   assess the availability of safe drinking water from surface! groundwater sources,
on the basis of secondary sources of information. Specific details should be
collected regarding declining water tables in the project area;
A 1.4



(ii)   examine the extent and possible causes of contamination of drinking water
sources. The Consultant is expected to draw upon the findings of the study -
Water Quality Assessment of Selected Panchayats, being commissioned to
analyze water quality' parameters of representative dug well borewells/public
sources, for establishing possible sources of pollution. In addition, the Consultant
should collect information from secondary sources to examine possible non-point
sources of contamination.
(iii)  collect information and prepare simple implementation guidelines on 'safe'
sanitation technologies as appropriate for the project area, on the basis of soil
characteristics, hydrogeology, proximity of water sources etc.
(iv)   assess adequacy of current water quality monitoring programs and institutional
capacity for the project area, and provide recommendations for enhancing these as
well as disseminating water quality information to the rural public;
(v)   assess current programs for disinfection treatment of drinking water supplies and
provide recommendations for enhancing as well as making these effective;
(vi)  prepare environmental performance indicators (on the basis of key issues), which
can be interfaced with the overall project indicators;
9.   A review of existing legislations and policies should be undertaken, to help Kerala
RWSS project attain the objective of safe water and sanitation.
10.  The project has a specific watershed component which is being addressed
separately. In addition the project is also addressing public health hygiene aspects,
including beneficiary participation and awareness raising programs, as part of the
Health, Sanitation and Hygiene component. The Consultant will interact with these
A 1.5



groups to have the benefit of the information, as necessary for the preparation of
the EMP.
11. The major environmental issues should be presented in a descriptive, matrix form
and classified as primary, secondary etc. The EA study should be representative of
project district areas including lowlands, midlands and highlands, with Maps and
Tables for clarity.
12. An analysis of alternate scenarios should clearly bring out the value addition by
integrating environmental issues in the design of the project.
13.  Views of the target groups and the local NGOs should be taken into account in the
preparation of the EA. This should be done for the pilot GPs.
14.  EA Report should provide the information as well as the required analysis, in
accordance with the World Bank's OP/GP/BP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
and the Environmental Sourcebook Update on Water Resources and Sanitation.
Expertise and Consultant Input Required
15. Water Resources and Environmental Management Specialist with extensive
experience in water supply and sanitation projects. Inputs required are 30 man
days, over a period of maximum 60 days.
Outputs and Schedule
16. The Consultancy shall be completed within 60 days from the date of signing of
contract and after approval of contract by the competent authorities. The following
is the target period for submission of various reports by the Consultant:
(i)  Inception Report: Within 10 days from the date of award of contract. It should
contain detail methodology of the Consultant for preparation of the report,
A1.6



identification of data requirements and the mode of collection of data.
'(ii) Draft Final Report and Executive Summary: Within 45 days from the date of award
of contract. It should provide baseline information and specify environmental
issues related to the project, on the basis of collection, collation and analysis of data
(primary and secondary) and public consultations. It should include an analysis of
alternative scenarios and recommendations regarding mitigative measures,
monitoring, evaluation strategies and institutional responsibilities. The Report
should be supported by Annexes containing data, relevant to the consideration of
environmental issues in the project area. The Report should not exceed 150 pages
and the Executive Summary should not exceed 15 pages.
(iii) Final Report and Summary: Within 10 days after receiving the comments on draft
Final Report and Executive Summary. 10 copies of the Final Report should be
submitted.
17.  The report, including data base attachments should also be submitted in electronic
format.
Reporting
18.  The Consultant will report to Executive Director, Rural Water and Sanitation
Agency (RWSA), who is mainly responsible for carrying out the Environmental
Analysis on behalf of GOK and for submitting the Environmental Analysis Report
to the Bank.
A1.7



ANNEXURE II
Public Consultations
As part of the EA study public consultations were held in the pilot GP in the project
districts to identify environmental issues, if any, including alternatives to the project, that
need to the addressed in the project. The following is a note on these consultations.
Public Consultation - 1
Date                     :     Feb 28, 2000 FN
Location                 :     Nediyeruppu Panchayat, Kondotty Block,
Malappuram District
Nediyeruppu Panchayat at a
glance                   :     (Information furnished by SEUF, (SO),
Nediyeruppu)
Panchayat Area                 2009 Ha
Total number of wards          10
Population (1999)              26273
No. of families                4165
No. of privately owned wells   2626 (63%)
No. of families experiencing
water scarcity                 2646
No. of farnilies having
sanitary latrines              2544 (61%)
Persons met              Mr.K.M.Namboodri, Senior Technical Advisor, SEUF.
Mr. Georgekutty Joseph - Technical Director, SEUF
Mr. Isac John - Project Manager, Technical Support Unit,
SEUF
Mr. Radhakrishnan l     Programme Associates,
Ms. Nisha        I   -  SEUF
A2.1



Mr.Chariapu          -  Ward Member
No. of participants in the public consultation held at Pantalamkunnu 'ayalkootam' - 32
(see list.... )
Main points
1.    Problem of water scarcity in summer, as many dug well sources dry up.
2.    Water supply to the panchayat from the existing DANIDA assisted scheme based
on borewells is highly inadequate, with supply even on alternate days.
3.    People are dissatisfied with the quantity and quality of existing supplies and want
surface water from Chaliyar river should be tapped for supply to the panchayat.
4.    People willing to consider household rainwater harvesting (roof catchment)
provided subsidy is made available to them.
5.   If private sources with good yield need to be acquired for the project, no problem
is anticipated, if compensated for.
6.    Problem of recurring turbidity (colloidal) in some well waters during the period
Jan - May.
Public Consultation - 2
Date February 28,2000
Location: Pookkottur Panchayat, Malappuram District.
Persons met: Mr.A. Mohammad, Panchayat Vice President
Mr.P.C.Velayudhan Kutty - Secretary, Panchayat
Staff of Support Organisation - Kutumbashri
Kutumbashri
Staff List
(1)   Deepthi. R.              -     Team Leader
(2)   Harikumar                -     Project Engineer
(3)   Abdul Hameed             -     Junior Engineer
(4)   Babu. M.S.               -     Junior Engineer
A2.2



(5)   Jazeera. T.              -      Accountant
(6)   Sajid. M.                -      Community arganiser
(7)   Noorjahan. V.            -      Community arganiser
(8)   Padmavathy. K.           -      Community Facilitator
(9)   Sulaikha. J.             -      Community Facilitator
(10)  Mini Mumtas. N.K.        -      Community Facilitator
(11)  Abdul Lateef. P.         -      Community Facilitator
(12)  Farisha. K.              -      Community Facilitator
Main Points
1.    33 schemes were considered, 21 have been selected based on source yield
considerations.
2.     For the 4 existing water supply schemes in the panchayat, source is no problem
but there is inequity in distribution of water.
3.     As the reliability of yield from open dug wells is high, the sources for the
proposed schemes will be open dug wells, excepting for one scheme for which
the source will be a borewell subject to confirmation by the GW department for
which the necessary fee has been deposited.
4.    In view of good availability of ground water, rainwater harvesting is not being
contemplated.
5.     Sanitation coverage in the panchayat is 90%
6.     A large number of hospitals have come up in the area and the problem of
sanitary disposal of hospital wastes needs to be addressed.
7.     Lack of organised system of slaughter house wastes which are presently dumped
into unused wells.
A2.3



Public Consultation - 3
Date                            Feb 29,2000 FN
Location                        Kunnummal Panchayat, Kozhikode district
Presons met              :      Ms.K.K.Latika   - Panchayat Presiden
Vice President
Mr.George Mathew - Programme Officer,
NASRAD (SO)
Mr. Jayaraj      -  Co-ordinator
Mr. Manikandan   -  Accountant
Number of participants in the public consultation: 24 (see list)
Salient Features of Kunnummal Panchayat : (as furnished by NASRAD)
Area                     :      10.58 km2
Total population         :      16,870
Female                   :      8568
Male                     .      8302
No. of households        :      3484
No. of privately owned wells:   2773 (937 - perennial)
No. of public wells       :     227
No. of borewells          :     4
Ponds              :     61
No. of taps               :     163
No. of schemes proposed    :    42
A2.4



Main Points
1. During summer months many dug wells dry up.
2. Likely problem of drying up of private dug wells in the viscinity of the new source
when fitted with high capacity pumps.
3. Schemes will be designed to serve a maximum number of 40 families who will be
provided with 24 hr metered supply.
4. No problem is envisaged in acquiring land for location of new source/over head
service reservoir (OHSR) or for taking over private sources of good yield. Formal
consent of the land owner will be obtained by the panchayat for locating the OHSR.
An agreement will be signed with the land owner when a new source is to be located
on a private land. If the source is found successful, the land will be formally handed
over to the panchayat for a mutually agreed price. A concern was expressed regarding
the loss of investment if the identified source fails.
5. Watershed management programnme should be taken up concurrently with the water
supply scheme to ensure sustainability of sources.
6. No real risk of contamination of ground water, as the number of new latrines to be
installed is small and the individual plot sizes are large.
7. Most of the beneficiary committees have registered their societies, opened their bank
accounts, are ready with their contribution and are eager to start the work on the
schemes.
A2.5



Field Visit to Koduvally Water Supply Scheme of KWA based on surface source
Date                           1-3-2000 FN
Person met               :     Mr P. Jamal, Asst. Engineer, PH Section, KWA,
Koduvally, Kozhikode dt.,
RWSS to Koduvally, Kizhakkoth and Madavoor Villages
Name of source           -     Cherupuzha River at Nadammal Kadavu
Well dia and depth      -      8.00 m and 14.00 m
Gallery length           -     72.00 m
Collecting well dia and depth -  3.00 m and 5.00 m
Pumping main size and length -    250 mm C-I class B, 1920 m
Levels
River bed               -     + 14.00                  Tank capacity
Well                     -     + 10.00
Koduvally Tank                 + 101.00 + 3.00          3.5 lakh litres
Madavoor Tank                  + 68.00 + 3.00           3.5 lakh litres
Kishakkoth Tank                + 73.00 + 3.00           2.5 lakh litres
Population Benifitted          -     70,125
Gravity main             300 mm AC pipe 4275
250 mm AC pipe 2180
200 mm AC pipe 3024
150 num AC pipe 1450
Distribution system 90.468 m (32 to 300 mm) subsequently laid approx 30 km
(PVC pipes).
Key observations
A2.6



Sand mining at the intake site, upstream and downstream is extensive resulting in
the lowering of the river bed by a few meters; change of the river regime near the intake,
necessitating bunding D/S with sand bags so as to ensure adequate flow to the infiltration
gallery; collapse of the retaining walls near the pump house, cultivation of river bed with
seasonal crops (tapioca, sugarcane etc), generation of turbidity in the river water due to
sand mining and other activities contributing to pollution at the intake; bleaching powder
added directly to the intake well, signs of corrosion of metal surfaces in the pump house.
Visit to KWA and CWRDM, Kozhikkode
Date: 1/3/2000
Meetings with the following persons for discussion and collection of secondary data
Mr. C. Reghu, CE Northern Zone, KWA, Kozhikode
Dr.P. Basak, Executive Director, CWRDM, Kozhikode
Dr.E.J. James, Head Surface Water Division, CWRDM, Kozhikode
K. Damodaran, 0/0 District Officer, Economics and statistics Dept., GoK,
Kozhikode
A2.7



Public consultation - 4
Date                     :     March 2, 2000
Location                 :     Mundathikode Panchayat, Thrissur District
Persons met                    Mr               , Panchayat President
Mr. Biju, Convenor
Mr.M.L.George, Senior Engineer,COSTFORD(SO)
Prof. V.A.Sundhakaran
Present status of Water Supply and Sanitation in the Panchayat
*     KWA schemes cater to only 3 wards in the panchayat.
*     Another ward has recently commissioned its own water supply scheme with 1 hr
supply twice a day, people want more water.
*     Existing borewells put up by KWA supply 50,000 lpd (16-18 hr pumping);
population benefited is only about 3000, there is considerable misuse of water by
the people.
*     During rainy season, people use their individual wells to a large extent and the
pumping from the public sources is kept to the minimum
*     Sanitation coverage is high (95%).
*     45 locations have been identified for siting the new sources (dug wells and
borewells).
*     Five sites already selected, ground water department to confirm the sites.
*     Some of the sites are privately owned and some belong to GP.
*     All land required for the schemes will be made available by the people.
Public consultation in ward no.2. Mundathikode Panchayat
No. of participants   -  42 (see list)
A2.8



Main points:
1. For the proposed (new) schemes, the per capita supply will be kept flexible depending
on the yield of the source.
2. People are willing to donate the land for locating the sources.
3. High yielding new sources (open dug wells) may cause the existing wells in the
vicinity go dry; likewise a high yielding bore put up by private parties may interfere
with the public source.
4. Serious concerns were expressed regarding the poor quality of water supplies for
public as well as private sources (dug wells).
5. Women will be able to find more time for productive work after the introduction of
the piped water supply scheme.
6. The remaining 5% of the population will be provided with sanitation system (leach
pit latrines) in the coming year - people with old deep pit latrines would like to retain
them.
2.3.2000 AN
Visit to State Ground Water Dept. Thrissur and discussion with Mr.S.Radhakrishnan,
District Officer.
*     Out of 36 wells studied by the Dept. in Mundathikode Panchayat, ony 2 are
perennial.
*     Good scope for bore well sources; potential sources could be located in paddy
fields and in low lying areas.
*     Problem of excessive fluoride in groundwater in Arthad Panchayat.
As per water quality analysis reports obtained from WQ Testing Wing Thrissur,
all the 9 samples (8 open wells and 1 pond) collected from Mundathikode
Panchayat area on Jan 11, 2000 had shown the presence of fecal contamination
(MPN range 460 to 1100+/100 ml).
A2.9



Public Consultation - 5
Date                     :     March 3, 2000
Location                 :     Erimayoor Panchayat (Palakkad Dist)
Persons met        Mr.C.S.Sulaiman    -     Panchayat President
Mr.K.M.Mathan      -     Standing Committee Chairman
Mr.P.Vinod Kumar
Dr.K.K.Preetha          'Maithri' Support Organisation
Mr.S.P.Ravi
Ms. Joti
Ms. K.B.Pushpa 1
Mr.Unnikrishnan   f      Ward Member
Ms. Valsala        -     Ward Member
Mr. Ratesh, KWA
Mr.Ramachandran, AE, KWA
Present status of WSS schemes
1. Existing schemes in the Panchayat with 11 wards comprise
(i) KWA schemes including multipanchayat schemes and
(ii) Panchayat owned schems.
2. 85 new schemes were proposed of which 50 schemes have been decided.
3. Active preparatory stage
Some points raised by the above group
President
1. Some issues/concerns may come up at the implementation stage of the schemes.
A2.10



S.C. Chairman
*     Two types of tariffs may exist in the Panchayat - Existing KWA schemes and
WB aided schemes.
President
*     In the event of new sources (wells) affecting the existing ones and vice versa, there
must be some stipulation/directive from the government to control such incidents.
*     Acquisition of land for siting new sources has to be done through peaceful persuasion.
Valsamma W.M.:
The aspect of O&M costs needs more elaboration and explanation.
*     There are certain areas where people are needy but are not willing to participate.
-     On a question raised by Mr.Mathan reg per capita water supply from the proposed
schemes, Mr.Unnikrishnan, Ward Member responded by saying that the quantity
will be divided according to the availability at the source.
Unnikrishnan W.M.:
Narrated some points raised by SC community such as
(i)    SC population has to pay for water in respect of WB schemes while they do
not pay for KWA schemes.
(ii)   What is the role of the government, if the existing KWA schemes are to be
transferred to 'ayalkootams'?
A2.11



Public consultation- 6
Date: March 3, 2000
Location Chullimada, Erumayoor panchayat Palakkad
*     Some participants sought clarification from the SO regarding idnividual family
contribution to the proposed project.
*     A few people owning wells are wary of participation in the project.
*     One participant : When the area served by KWA gets free water supply why
should we pay for the project?
Another participant : We will be assured of a realibale supply from the proposed
project.
Some questions    :     What is the guarantee that the
new project will solve our problem?
What if the government changes?
*     In this area with 53 households, only 24 have their latrines while the rest resort to
open field defecation.
*     Some people would like to contribute to the project through labour.
*     Because of extensive sand mining in the nearby Gayathri river, the people are
experiencing the water supply problem, which did not exist a few years ago.
They complained of the poor quality of water supplied from the existing systems.
A2.12



ANNEXURE III
Sanitary Survey of Water Supply Sources
The importance of a sanitary survey of water sources cannot be overemphasized.
With a new supply, the sanitary survey should be made in conjunction with the collection
of initial engineering data covering the development of a given source and its capacity to
meet existing and future needs. The sanitary survey should include the detection of all
health hazards and the assessment of their present and future importance. Persons trained
and competent in public health engineering and the epidemiology of waterbome disease
should conduct the sanitary survey. In the case of an existing supply, the sanitary survey
should be made at a frequency compatible with the control of the health hazards and the
maintenance of a good sanitary quality.
The information furnished by the sanitary survey is essential to complete
interpretation of bacteriological and frequently the chemical data. This information should
always accompany the laboratory findings. The following outline covers the essential
factors which should be investigated or considered in a sanitary survey. Not all of the items
are pertinent to any one supply and in some cases, items not in the list would be important
additions to the survey list.
Ground Water Supplies
a.    Character of local geology; slope of ground surface.
b.    Nature of soil and underlying porous strata; whether clay, sand, gravel, rock (especially
porous limestone); coarseness of sand or gravel; thickness of water-bearing stratum,
depth to water table; location; log and construction details of local wells in use and
abandoned.
Source: Manual of Individual Water Supply Systems (1973)
U.S. EPA. Water Supply Division
A3.1



c.     Slope of water table, preferably as determined from observational wells or as
indicated, presumptively but not certainly, by slope of ground surface.
d.     Extent of drainage area likely to contribute water to the supply.
e.    Nature, distance and direction of local sources of pollution.
f.    Possibility of surface-drainage water entering the supply and of wells becoming
flooded; methods of protection.
g.     Methods used for protecting the supply against pollution by means of sewage
treatment, waste disposal, and the like.
h.     Well construction:
1.    Total depth of well.
2.     Casing: diameter, wall thickness, material and length from surface.
3.     Screen or perforations : diameter, material, construction, locations and lengths.
4.     Formation seal : Material (cement, sand, bentonite, etc.), depth
intervals, annular thickness and method of placement.
i.     Protection of well at top : presence of sanitary well seal, casing height above
ground, floor, or flood level, protection of well vent, protection of well from erosion and
aniimals.
j.     Pumphouse construction (floors, drains, etc.), capacity of pumps, drawdown
when pumps are in operation.
k.     Availability of an unsafe supply, usable in place of normal supply, hence involving
danger to the public health.
1.     Disinfection: equipment, supervision, test kits, or other types of laboratory control.
Surface-Water Supplies
a.    Nature of surface geology : character of soils and rocks.
b.     Character of vegetation, forests, cultivated and irrigated land, including salinity,
effect on irrigation water, etc.
A3.2



c.    Population and sewered population per sq Km of catchment area.
d.    Methods of sewage disposal, whether by diversion from watershed or by treatment.
e.    Character and efficiency of sewage-treatment works on watershed.
f.    Proximity of sources of fecal pollution to intake of water supply.
g.    Proximity, sources and character of industrial wastes, acid mine waters, etc.
h.    Adequacy of supply as to quantity.
i.    For lake or reservoir supplies: wind direction and velocity data, drift of pollution,
sunshine data (algae).
j.     Character and quality of raw water: coliform organisms (MPN), algae, turbidity,
color, objectionable mineral constituents.
k.    Nominal period of detention in reservoir or storage basin.
1.    Probable minimum time required for water to flow from sources of pollution to
reservoir and through reservoir intake.
m.    Shape of reservoir, with reference to possible currents of water, induced by wind or
reservoir discharge from inlet to water-supply intake.
n.    Protective measures in connection with the use of watershed to control fishing,
boating, swimming, wading, permitting animals on marginal shore areas and in or
upon the water etc.
o.    Efficiency and constancy of policing.
p.    Treatment of water : kind and adequacy of equipment; duplication of parts;
effectiveness of treatment; adequacy of supervision and testing; contact period after
disinfection; free chlorine residuals carried.
q.    Pumping facilities: pumphouse, pump capacity and standby units, storage facilities.
Distances to sources of contamination
All ground water sources should be located a safe distance from sources of
contamination. In cases where sources are severely limited, however, a ground water
A3.3



aquifer that might become contaminated may be considered for a water supply if treatment
is provided. After a decision has been made to locate a water source in an area, it is
necessary to determine the distance the source should be placed from the origin of
contamination and the direction of water movement. A deternination of a safe distance is
based on specific local factors described under "Sanitary Survey".
Because many factors affect the determination of "safe" distances between ground
water supplies and sources of pollution, it is impractical to set fixed distances. Where
insufficient information is available to determine the 'safe' distance, the distance should be
the maximum that economics, land ownership, geology and topography will pernit. It
should be noted that the direction of ground water flow does not always follow the slope of
the land surface. Each installation should be inspected by a person with sufficient training
and experience to evaluate all of the factors involved.
Since safety of a ground water source depends primarily on considerations of good
well construction and geology, these factors should be the guides in determining safe
distances for different situations. The following criteria apply only to properly constructed
wells. There is no safe distance for a poorly constructed well.
When a properly constructed well penetrates an unconsolidated formation with
good filtering properties and when the aquifer itself is separated from sources of
contamination by similar materials, research and experience have demonstrated that 50 feet
is an adequate distance separating the two. Lesser distances should be accepted only after a
comprehensive sanitary survey, conducted by qualified state or local health agency
officials, has satisfied the officials that such lesser distances are both necessary and safe.
If it is proposed to install a properly constructed well in formations of unknown
character, the state or Geological Survey and the state or local health agency should be
consulted.
A3.4



When wells must be constructed in consolidated formations, extra care should
always be taken in the location of the well and in setting "safe" distances, since pollutants
have been known to travel great distances in such formations.
The following table is offered as a guide in determining distances
Formations                  Minimum acceptable distance from
Favorable (unconsolidated)             50 feet. Lesser distances only on health
department     approval      following
comprehensive sanitary survey of proposed
site and immediate surroundings
Unknown                                50  feet  only  after  comprehensive
geological survey of the site and its
surroundings  has  established, to  the
satisfaction of the health agency, that
favourable formations do exist.
Poor (consolidated)                    Safe distances can be established only
following   both  the   comprehensive
geological and comprehensive sanitary
surveys.  These  surveys  also  permit
determining the direction in which a well
may be located with respect to sources of
contamination. In no case should the
acceptable distance be less than 50 feet.
A3.5



ANNEXURE IV
Recuperation Test for Yield Estimation of an Open Well
Source failure is becoming increasingly common in small pumping schemes. This
is because no or little steps are taken to actually measure the "safe yield" of the source.
How much water can your well give? You must have a clear answer to this
question in order to decide how much water each household can get or how many
households can the well be used for especially in peak summer.
You can do this by some simple measurements, but it must be done in the peak
summer. You also nee to pump your well nearly dry and make some observations of time
and water levels, as described later.
The basic idea is to estimate the time required for the well to refill after it has
been fully or partially emptied. If a well refills to almost its original level, within 12 to 16
hours, then this refilled volume of water is safely available, every day, for your scheme.
This is the Daily Safe Yield your well can provide. It is the amount of water that the well
can supply daily when pumping is done twice 3 to 4 hours each time, leaving 12 to 16
hours for the well to refill.
Steps for Safe Yield Estimation
1.    Using a measuring tape, note down the diameter of the well in meters.
2.    Using a thin rope or string with a stone tied on one end, measure the depth of the
water level from the ground or the parapet wall of the well. Convert this into
meters using the measuring tape.
Source : Experience of a Pilot Programme on Decentralised Water Supply Systems
Malappuram District, Kerala,
Technical Support Unit (TSU)
Socio Economic Unit Foundation (SEUF)
Kondotty, Malappuram, Kerala
A4.1



3.    Use the rope again, and from the same place on the well wall (or ground), this
time to measure the total depth of the well.
4.    Install a pump to dewater the well making sure that the foot valve is close to the
bottom of the well.
5.    Start the pump and note the time.
6.    Stop the dewatering when the water level has dropped very close to the foot
valve. Note the time and the depth to the water level, using the string and the
measuring tape.
7.    Wait until the water level in the well rises to nearly (within 10 cm, use the tape to
verify this) its original level before you started pumping. Initially, the water level
will rise quickly. Later this rise will be much slower and may take 8 hours or
more. Therefore, visit the well initially every half hour and later every one hour
and judge the rate of recovery to decide when recovery is nearly completed.
8.    Note down the time and depth to water level when recovery is nearly complete.
9.    As mentioned earlier, the safe yield per day can be estimated as the quantity of
water that flows back into the well within 12 to 16 hours time. It is assumed that
the difference between the initial water level and the water level at the time of
recovery is negligible.
Precautions
1.    Measurements in Steps 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7 must be from an identifiable and fixed
point at the ground level or the well wall. You may need to make measurements
again from this point later.
2.    If your well has recovered to its original level within 4 to 6 hours then, its yield is
very good. However, if the water level has not come to half its original column
height, within 6 to 8 hours, then your well is not very high yielding. In such a
A4.2



situation let your well rest without pumping for two days. Then repeat dewatering,
this time pumping till only.
3.    It is also possible that when pumping from your well, it affects the neighbouring wells.
Check if this happens by two measurements of water levels in your closest
neighbouring well while your well is dewatering. If a drop in the water level in an
adjoining well is observed, then your well is not suited for sustainable use.
Complete the calculations as illustrated below,
If:
Diameter of Well                =     d (m)
Depth of Well                   =     D (m)
Depth of Initial
Water level                     =      SWL (m)
Time of starting dewatering     =      TI (Hr./min.)
Depth of water level at end
of dewatering                   =      DW (m)
Time at the end of dewatering   =      T2 (Hr./min.)
Depth to Water level at end of
recovery                        =      DR (m)
Time at the end of recovery     =      T3 (Hr./min.)
Then:
Safe yield                      -      Volume of recovered water
22   (dxD) (DR-DW))
7     4
= 0.786 (d x D) (DR - DW) x 1000 litres
=     Quantity of water available
every day from your well
A4.3



ANNEXURE V
Roof Water Harvesting Systems
The uplands and mid lands of Kerala are characterised by several isolated and
scattered habitations facing acute water scarcity where no conventional water supply
systems are feasible. Rain Water Harvesting (RWH) is found to be the most, if not the
only, appropriate solution in such areas. RWII systems are designed to store and collect
rain water to meet the drinking and cooking needs (10 Ipcd) of households for about 180
days of non rainy period. Another requirement is hard roof that gets cleaned with the first
two or three showers.
1.    Suitability
Roof Water Harvesting systems are ideally suited to the following situations.
1.    At localities where the rainy days in a year are spread in such a way that
the storage requirements are reduced to the minimum. In most parts of
Kerala, the tank starts filling in May and gets constantly replenished until
end of October. This means the maximum storage required is for about
200 days in a year. However, there ar many localities where the water
scarcity is felt only for two to three months in a year. At such locations,
the storage is required only for three months (say 100 days).
2.    The roof is of a hard surface and thatched roofs should be avoided.
3.    At localities where all the other cheaper and sustainable alternative water
supply systems such as decentralised piped water supply schemes (springs,
wells, bore wells, rivers, ponds) either by gravity or small head pumping
are infeasible.
Source : Experience of a Pilot Programme on Decentralised Water Supply Systems
Malappuram District, Kerala,
Technical Support Unit (TSU)
Socio Economic Unit Foundation (SEUF)
Kondotty, Malappuram, Kerala
A5.1



The remote and hilly tracts with scattered population and coastal areas with saline water
problems are ideally suited for RWH in Kerala.
2.    Advantages
1.    Simple design and easy to construct and maintain
2.    Assured water supply
3.    Cost-effective compared to piped water supply systems with long lead
pipe lines.
4.    Negligible maintenance cost
5.    Owned and managed by the beneficiary and as such maximum care will be
taken to maintain and avoid wastage of water.
3.    Limitations
1.   Initial cost (Rs/litre) is high.
2.    Can supply only the minimum requirement (for drinking and cooking).
Design assumptions for a standard unit
I .    Minimum roof area       =      15 sq.m
2.    Type of roof             =      RCC/Tiled
3.    Average rainfall         =      2500 mm
4.    Run off coefficient       =     80%
5.    No. of family members    =      5
6.    Per capita supply (drinking) =  10 litres
7.    Storage requirements for    =   200 days (Ignoring refilling due
to summer showers)
8.    Water collection method    =    The drainage pipe from the roof
feeding a tank through a sand filter
4.    Technical Specifications
A5.2



4.1.  Individual Houses (200 days storage)
1.    Storage required (200 x 5 x 10) =   10000 litres
2.    Type of storage tank
=     Ferro-cement tanks (20 mm
thick walls) kept outside the house close
to the extemal wall.
3.    Number of tanks           =     1
4.    Size of tank              =     2.7 m dia and 1.80 m high.
5.    Foundation
-     LLaterite masonry, 30 cm
AGL and 25 cm BGL with 5 cm thick
concrete floor.
6.    Cost per litre            =     Rs. 1.2- 1.8
4.2.  Converting Abandoned Open Wells into Rain Water Storage Tanks
Like any other regions of rural Kerala, people have invested massively on open
wells in lateritic areas. Many of the wells dry immediately after the rainy season and as
such are abandoned by the owners.
The high ranfall notwithstanding, the highest water table in the high lateritic
regions is about 5 m below ground during the monsoon, whereas the water table drops as
deep as 10 to 1 5 m below ground during summer. For this reason, the wells in the lateritic
regions are quite deep. Many wells end in massive rock. On the hilly areas, the bed rock
slopes steeply causing rapid drainage of ground water. These are the wells that remain
dry for three to four months in a year.
There are two basic features of wells in lateritic regions ending in rock that
remains dry during summer.
A5.3



1.    The wells are neatly cut in laterites offering smooth but stable inner
surfaces.
2.    Good impermeable and stable foundation.
Both the above features bring in good scope for converting these wells into
subsurface tanks to store rain water. The rain water faIling over the roof can be diverted
to fill the wells. By pouring concrete over the bottom and cement plastering the inner
surface, seepage loss can be prevented. Providing a concrete slab on top of the wells will
prevent contamination and evaporation loss.
Some calculations indicating the feasibility of this proposition are given below:
1.    Average volume of a lateritic well (3 m. dia, 8 m. deep)   :  21 cu.m
2.    Average roof area of rural houses                  :     30 sq.m
3.    Average run off (80% of 2500 mm annual rainfall)   :   2000 mm
4.    Average annual run off volume (30 x 2)                   60 cu.m
Since the run off is more than the volume of the well, the proposition to fill the
wells with the runoff water is feasible. If the volume of the well is more, more houses can
be tapped.
Although the above proposition seems to be promising, there are many unknown
areas involved in the technology because this has never been done before. Following
factors need to be studied
1.    Effectiveness of various plastering and water proofing materials
2.    Structural stability of side plastering and bottom concrete.
3.    Water quality changes if any, during one year.
A5.4



4.3. Underground Sumps (Water Supply for Schools)
Many schools are located on lateritic hills. The school wells tend to dry up during
summer and the children have to fetch water from far off places. The hard laterite
exposed on the surface in such areas offers the possibility of underground tanks, by
digging a rectangular sumps, concreting the floor, plastering the sides, and covering the
same with RCC slab. Collecting the rain water from the school roof and storing the same
in these underground sumps is feasible. The water can be pumped into a small supply
tank using solar/kerosene/electric pumps and supplied through a set of taps. The pump is
to be installed in such a way that pumping from underground sump or school well is
possible as and when required.
The following calculations may be interesting
Average strength of a school                =     700 students
Daily requirement @ 2.5 lpcd                =     1750 litres (1.75 cum)
Number of working days to be supplied (summer) =  60 days
Total storage required                      =     105 cu.m
Average roof area                           =     100 sq.m
Run off @ 2 cum/sq.m                        =     200 cu.m
Size of underground sump                    =     10 m x 3 m x 3.5 m
(3 m BGL and 0.5 m AGL)
Cost per litre                              =     Rs. 1.25
(Including sump, pump and
pumphouse, supply tank and
pipelines)
A5.5



ANNEXURE VI
Bleach Powder Solution Dosing Equipment for Disinfection of
Small Pumped Water Supplies
Bleaching Powder also known as Chloride of Lime, Calcium Hypochlorite and
Chlorinated Lime has the chemical formula Ca(OC1)2 and is commonly used in India as a
disinfecting agent instead of gaseous chlorine. It is a white, dry powder, hygroscopic
containing 25% to 33% of its weight as chlorine. For calculating the quantity of
bleaching powder for a given dose of chlorine expressed in parts per million parts, it is
safer to assume chlorine content at 25%. The quantity of water required for preparing
solution of bleaching powder is 3 to 4 gallons of water per pound of bleaching powder.
Chalk precipitates as a result of the chemical reaction and therefore the supematant liquid
is only used for feeding to the water to be chlorinated. The solution is therefore prepared
in a separate bucket of non-corrodible construction and the supernatant liquid poured or
decanted into another holding tank, or the solution is prepared in a tank of non-corrodible
construction or in a suitably lined tank, whose outlet is kept about 15 - 30 cm feet above
the bottom to avoid entry of chalk in the feed system; the chalk being then removed
periodically through the drain at the bottom of the tank. Where the water used for
solutionizing is hard, the lime in bleaching powder reacts to soften the water and impairs
the release of oxy-chlorate of lime, which contributes towards chlorination of water to be
treated. It is therefore, usual to add soda ash to the solutionizing water 750 gm kg of
bleaching powder. The soda-ash should be allowed to dissolve completely before adding
bleaching powder. This will form sodium hypochlorite, a more stable form than calcium
hypochlorite. In either case the sludge at the bottom of the dissolving container should be
A6.1



thrown away, or else if fed into the water supply system it will cause trouble by clogging
valves and orifices and cause deposition in pipes. Bleaching powder is packed in non-
returnable thin guage steel drums, usually about 50 kg weight.
Bleaching Powder solution can be fed by gravity from dosing boxes employing a
"floating arm take-off' or constant head gravity feed device. When bleaching powder
solution is fed by gravity, the constant head box must be of non-corrodible construction
and so also all its components. Concrete tanks or boxes should not be used. When feeding
to pressure systems, such as water flowing through a pressure filter or flowing in a
pipeline under pressure, the popular unit called the "Displacement Doser" is used.
The Displacement Doser as shown in accompanying sketch provides a simple and
reliable means of adding bleaching powder solution to a pipeline under pressure, using
differential pressure created by a venturi tube or orifice plate to impel the solution into
the pipeline. In principle water from the higher pressure upstream side of the venturi tube
or orifice is led to a closed vessel, which has been filled with the solution to be applied
and from which a connection leads to the low pressure throat of the venturi tube or
downstream side of the orifice plate. The difference of pressure causes the water to flow
into a closed vessel, driving the solution in it into the pipeline. In order that the incoming
water shall displace the solution instead of mixing with it, the vessel is divided into two
by a flexible membrane in the form of a sac or a bag, into which the solution is originally
placed, and from which it is expelled by the closing up of the bag by the incoming water.
Since the quantity of solution leaving the bag is equal to the quantity of water entering
the vessel, it is easy to regulate and measure the dose by controlling and measuring the
flow of incoming water, and so to avoid the difficulties inherent in attempts to measure or
A6.2



adjust small flows of solutions that are usually corrosive and may frequently contain
minute particles of insoluble matter. Small orifices and fine clearances are obviously
inadvisable in conjunction with such solutions.
The Displacement Doser assembly consists of:
1. A Solution Preparing Tank, in which the correct quantity of solution of desired
strength can be prepared, with necessary valves, to enable the solution when prepared
to flow by gravity. Usually, we use a plastic bucket with wooden plunger and a lid to
prepare the solution, and the solution is decanted leaving the thick chalk deposit
below.
2. The Pressure Vessel, consisting of welded steel cylinder, with a removable flanged
cover, drain and outlet valves, and flexible plastic sac or rubber bag, into which
prepared solution is allowed to flow and from which it is discharged to the water to be
disinfected.
3. The Withdrawable Injection Fitting, with isolating valve for insertion in the pipeline
with the necessary PVC tubing between it and the pressure vessel.
4. The Orifice Plate or Venture Tube, with the necessary tubing to connect it to the inlet
of the pressure vessel.
A charge of the required solution at the correct strength is first made in the
preparing tank, the pressure vessel is then isolated from the main on the upstream side,
the filling valve and the drain valves opened, so that the prepared solution runs in and
fills the bag, displacing the water in the pressure vessel which escapes through the drain
valve. The filling valve is then turned to its running position, connecting the interior of
A6.3



the bag to the downstream tapping in the pipeline through the injection fitting, the valve
on the upstream connection to the pressure vessel reopened and dosing will take place.
Displacement Dosers are available in sizes which define the bag capacity. The
sizes are expressed in gallons and are in the range of 8, 16, 24, 32 and 48. The
pressure vessel is designed for working pressure of 25 p.s.i., and is tested to 50 p.s.i.
Venturi tubes and Orifice plates can be designed for any flow and to suit all normal
type of water main. The differential pressure normally employed is of the order of 2
m head of water at the maximum flow, but can be varied somewhat if necessary to
suit special circumstances.
A6.4



ANNEXURE VII
Sanitary Protection of wells through Cement Grouting
The annular open space on the outside of the well casing is one of the principal
avenues through which undesirable water and contamination may gain access to a well.
The most satisfactory way of eliminating this hazard is to fill the annular space with neat
cement grout. To accomplish this satisfactorily, careful attention should be given to see that
1.    The grout mixture is properly prepared.
2.    The grout material is placed in one continuous mass.
3.    The grout material is placed upward from the bottom of the
space to be grouted.
Neat cement grout should be a mixture of cement and water in the proportion of 1
bag of cement and 20 - 25 liters of clean water. Whenever possible, the water content
should be kept near the lower limit given. Hydrated lime to the extent of 10 per cent of the
volume of cement may be added to make the grout mix more fluid and thereby facilitate
placement by the pumping equipment. Mixing of cement or cement and hydrated lime with
the water must be thorough. Up to 5 per cent by weight of bentonite clay may be added to
reduce shrinkage.
Grouting. Procedure
The grout mixture must be placed in one continuous mass; hence, before starting
the operation, sufficient materials should be on hand and other facilities available to
accomplish its placement without interruption.
Source: Manual of Individual Water Supply Systems (1973)
U.S. EPA. Water Supply Division
A7.1



Restricted passages will result in clogging and failure to complete the grouting
operation. The minimum clearance at any point, including couplings, should not be less
than 4 cm. When grouting through the annular space, the grout pipe should not be less than
2.5 cm nominal diameter. As the grout moves upward, it picks up much loose material such
as results from caving. Accordingly, it is desirable to waste a suitable quantity of the grout
which first emerges from the drill hole.
In grouting a well so that the material will move upward, there are two general
procedures that may be followed. The grout pipe may be installed within the well casing or
in the annular space between the casing and drill hole if there is sufficient clearance to
permit this. In the latter case, the grout pipe is installed in the annular space to within a few
cm of the bottom. The grout is pumped through this pipe, discharging into the annular
space, and moving upward around the casing, finally overflowing at the land surface.
In 3 to 7 days the grout will be set, and the well can be completed and pumping started.
A waiting period of only 24 to 36 hours is required if quick-setting cement is used.
When the grout pipe is installed within the well casing, the casing should be
supported a few cm above the bottom during grouting to permit grout to flow into the
annular space. The well casing is fitted at the bottom with an adapter threaded to receive
the grout pipe and a check valve to prevent return of grout inside of the casing. After grout
appears at the surface, the casing is lowered to the bottom and the grout pipe is unscrewed
immediately and raised a few cm. A suitable quantity of water should then be pumped
through it, thereby flushing any remaining grout from it and the casing. The grout pipe is then
removed from the well and 3 to 7 days are allowed for setting of the grout. The well is then
cleared by drilling out the adapter, check valve, plug, and grout remaining within the well.
A modification of this procedure is the use of the well casing itself to convey the
grout to the annular space. The casing is suspended in the drill hole and held a few meters
A7.2



off the bottom. A spacer is inserted in the casing. The casing is then capped and connection
made from it to grout pump. The estimated quantity of grout, including a suitable
allowance for filling of crevices and other voids, is then pumped into the casing. The spacer
moves before the grout, in turn forcing the water in the well ahead of it. Arriving at the
lower casing terminal, the spacer is forced to the bottom of the drill hole, leaving sufficient
clearance to permit flow of grout into the annular space and upward through it.
After the desired amount of grout has been pumped into the casing, the cap is
removed and a second spacer is inserted in the casing. The cap is then replaced and a
measured volume of water sufficient to fill all but a few feet of the casing is pumped into it.
Thus all but a small quantity of the grout is forced from the casing into the annular space.
From 3 to 7 days are allowed for setting of the grout. The spacers and grout remaining in
the casing and drill hole are then drilled out and the well completed.
If the annular space is to be grouted for only part of the total depth of the well, the
grouting can be carried out as directed above when the well reaches the desired depth and
the well can then be drilled deeper by lowering the tools inside of the first casing. In this
type of construction, where casings of various sizes telescope within each other, a seal
should be placed at the level where the telescoping begins, that is, in the annular space
between the two casings. The annular space for grouting between two casings should
provide a clearance of at least 4 cm and the depth of the seal should be not less than 3 m.
Spring Protection and Development
A majority of people living in the hilly tracts all over Kerala are still dependant on
natural springs, although many of them are at the verge of drying up. If well protected,
springs can provide safe, potable and palatable drinking water to a small community on a
sustainable basis.
A7.3



1. Suitability
Developing springs as a source for rural water supply is ideally suited for the
following situations:
1.    The springs are perennial (at least discharge at the rate of 20 lpcd during peak
summer) and of good water quality (to be tested for chemical and bacteriological
contamination).
2.    Chance of polluting the catchment is minimum.
3.    The beneficiary population lives within close proximity of the springs preferably
in the down stream areas of the springs.
The spring water collected in the chamber can be supplied to the consumers through
gravity pipe where the community is living in the downstream areas.
2. Advantages
1.    The cost of source development is significantly low.
2.    easy to construct and maintain by the local communities
3.    The maintenance cost is negligible.
Source : Experience of a Pilot Programme on Decentralised Water Supply Systems
Malappuram District, Kerala,
Technical Support Unit (TSU)
Socio Economic Unit Foundation (SEUF)
Kondotty, Malappuram, Kerala
4.    As long as proper catchment protection measures are ensured, the source
is sustainable because only the naturally flowing water is extracted.
5.    Traditionally used system and local community has good knowledge about
protecting, developing and using the spring sources.
3. Disadvantages
1.    Usage is limited to hilly tracts with perennial springs.
A7.4



2.    If the spring catchment is not properly protected, the springs may either
dry up or become unsafe for drinking.
In view of the above, the hilly tracts of both the mid lands and western ghats of Kerala
are suitable for spring development.
4.    Design Assumptions
1.    The spring is perennial with minimum discharge rate of 20 Ipcd.
2.    The benefitted population lives within 1 km from the source.
3.    water quality is acceptable as per test results and peoples taste preference.
Turbidity level is below 5 NTU even during the monsoon period.
4.    Demand is about 20 to 50 lpcd.
5.    Benefitted population is about 250 (50 households).
6.    Catchment area is about 100 Ha
7.    Community lives more than 10 m below the spring level.
5.    Technical Specifications of a Typical Scheme
1 .    Discharge of the spring       =     500 lph
2.    Benefitted population          =     200 (35 households)
3.    Supply rate                    =     50 Ipcd
4.    Spring protection chamber      =     4.25 m x 2.5 m x 1 m
5.    Gravity Main (40 mm PVC,
6 kg/cm2)         =     484 m
6.    Supply Tank (18 hours storage)       =      10,000 Lt (10 Cum)
(Standard Ferrocement Tank)
7.    Distribution Lines
(20 mm to 75 mm PVC)           =     1047 m
8.    Outlets                              House connection
A7.5



ANNEXURE VIII
Safe Sanitation Technologies
"SUBO" Septic Tank - A modified version of Conventional septic tank.
"SUBO" septic tank is a modified version of the conventional septic tank with all its
defects rectified. SUBO is a circular tank with a "separator" and "gas deflector" fitted to it
as shown in Fig. . There are three distinct zones in the tank:
1.    Active digestion zone.
2.    Digested sludge zone, and
3.    Outlet zone.
The first two zones and the treatments going on there are similar to those in
conventional septic tanks. But a specially designed quiescent outlet zone is a remarkable
new feature of the SUBO septic tank. The gas deflector prevents the entry of gas bubbles
and particles attached to them into the outlet zone. The expanding cross section of the zone
gradually reduces the effluent velocity enabling gravitational settling of finer particles.
Also, a "Sludge Blanket" created by the settling particles, almost completely, blocks the
upward movement of other particles and their subsequent escape from the tank.
An optional "Biofill Pack" placed above the sludge blanket will further improve
the effluent quality. The microbial film developed on the biofills enables the
decomposition of finely divided and dissolved organic materials in the effluent.
All these modifications contribute to the better performance of SUBO septic
tank whose BOD removal efficiency (80-85) was observed to be 30 per cent higher than that
of conventional septic tanks. The exceptional quality of the new tank, however, is the
stable nature of its effluent BOD. SUBO septic tank can, therefore, be accepted, as a
dependable sewage treatment facility for areas not provided with sewerage systems.
Source: SUBO - The New Eco-friendly Septic Tank, November 1999, Prof.V.A.Sudhakaran,
COSTFORD, Thrissur- 680 003.
A8.1



As the effluent quality of SUBO tank is high, a large soil absorption system is not
essential. A simpler arrangement for the easy absorption of the cleaner effluent by the soil
will serve the purpose. The effluent may, even, be discharged into open drains, (after
disinfection in special cases).
SUBO tank will perform better in flood-prone areas also. The escape of undigested
faecal-matters into the outlet zone with the rise of water table could be prevented by
extending the vertical portion of the separator to the cover slab as shown in Fig. 3. This will
reduce the chance of ground water contamination.
SUBO tank being circular in cross section could be constructed by a 10-12 cm,
thick brick wall or 5 cm thick pre-cast concrete rings, thereby reducing its construction cost
substantially. It can also be made of ferrocement. PVC, or fibre glass. Bigger tanks should
have thicker walls made of brick or RCC. Moulded PVC tanks also could be used for larger
systems.
The separator and gas deflector could be made of ferrocement or FRP (Fibre
Reinforced Plastic). They should be inserted into grooves made in the side wall or attached
to suitable fixtures provided on it. The inclination of the separators should be more than 45
degrees to enable particles deposited on them slip down easily. While smaller tanks need
only one separator, it is better to provide two separators for larger units.
"Biofill Pack"
"Biofill Pack"is another speciality of SUBO septic tank which enables the removal
of dissolved and finely divided organic materials from the effluent. It may be a pack of
plane, corrugated, or meshed plastic sheets kept vertical or at 60 degree inclination and 5 to
10 cm spacing. They should be suitably held in position by fixing them to the wall or to a
pre-fabricated frame made to size according to its position in the outlet zone. Patented
biofills available in the market may be cut to size and used as the pack.
A8.2



Alternately, a pre-fabricated tray netted on all sides and loosely packed with small
pieces of PVC pipes or other packings may be used as the biofill pack. Yet another
arrangement may be a pre-fabricated frame with rods on top and bottom and plastic ribbons
wound on them. Fig. 3. shows the details of different types of biofill packs.
In the case of larger systems, a separate Biofill unit outside the tank proper will be
more convenient for operation and maintenance. The bottom of this unit should be sloping
towards the septic tank to enable the collection of detached slimy substances from the
biofills.
Modification Of Conventional Septic Tanks To Subo Style
The better performance of the SUBO septic tank could be attributed to its quiescent
outlet zone. So, if such an outlet zone could be created in a conventional septic tank, its
efficiency could be increased to the same level as that of the SUJBO tank. This could be
easily achieved by fixing the seperator on the outlet side of the conventional septic tank as
shown in Fig. . The biofill pack also may be placed in position if better effluent quality is
required.
The arrangement for taking out the effluent from the septic tank should be
modified. A channel in the shape of a half-pipe and placed across the tank as shown in Fig.
will collect the effluent and discharge it into the existing soil absorption system.
Depending on the depth of the existing tank, one or two separators may have to be
used. This is necessary to keep the slope of the separators above 45 degrees and to maintain
the surface loading rate at 1.2 to 1.5 ml/hr for the new outlet zone created.
The Dry Composting Latrine
In water logged and high water table areas pit latrines and septic tanks can, and
often do, contaminate well water with human feaces . This is very common in coastal
A8.3



fishing communities. In such places, where open defecation on the sea shore and
defecation areas is normal practice, many families want to have their own latrine, or at
least a community latrine. But in a crowded village the wells and latrines would be forced
to lie close together. If septic tanks, soak aways and pit latrines are used, the well water
will be contamninated. Water contaminated with human faeces puts people at a high risk
of cholera, dysentery, diarrhoea, jaundice, polio and a variety of intestinal worms.
In such cases a Dry Composing Latrine can provide a solution. It consists of two
chambers covered with a slab having three holes in it witL covers - defecation hole, the urine
hole and the wash hole and a flower bed. The user squats and defecates in the defecation hole,
and urinates in the urine hole. Then turns and washes over the washing place. The feaces will
fall onto a bed of straw in the chamber. Instead of flushing, a little cooking ash or lime is
simply sprinkled into the hold and the cover is replaced. The urine and wash water join together
and flow to the flower bed (diluted urine is a good fertilizer so the plants will grow well).
The chambers are used for six months each and can be opened at the back to
remove the non - smelling compost. The urine and wash water come to the flower bed.
Because the urine is diluted with wash water it does not smell.
Before returning to use the first chamber it is opened at the back and emptied.
The contents are pleasant, earthy, garden soil-like compost with no objectionable smell or
appearance, it can be put around coconut trees, bananas or flowers etc.
Source
Programme for community Organisation and
Shrina Shakthi at
PCO Centre
A8.4



Spencer Junction
MG Road,
Thiruvananthapuram- 695 039
TeL 0471-330408.
Recommended Construction Practice and Pollution Safeguards for
Twin Pit Pour Flush Latrines
1. Pits in Water Logged, Flood Prone and High Sub-soil Water Areas
In high sub-soil, water logged or flood prone areas, the pits should be raised above
the ground level to a height such that the invert of the incoming drains/pipes is just above
the likely flood water or sub-soil water level. Raising the pipes will necessitate raising the
latrine floor also.
In pits located in water logged or flood prone areas, earth should be filled and well
compacted all around the pits in 1000 mm width and up to the top. It is not necessary to
raise the pits by more than 300 mm above the plinth of the house because if water rises
above the plinth, the residents will anyway vacate the house. In high sub-soil water areas,
about 300 mm filling all around the pits may be done depending on site conditions.
In these situations, the pits should be designed as wet pits, taking into consideration
the infiltration rate of the type of soil.
2. Pits in Rocky Strata
In rocky strata with soil layers in between, leach pits are designed on the same
principles as those for low sub-soil water level taking the long term infiltration capacity of
the soil as 20 litres per sq.m per day. However, in rocks with fissures, chalk formations, or
A8.5



old root channels, pollution can flow over a very long distance; hence these conditions
demand careful investigation and adoption of pollution safeguards.
Source : Technical Guidelines on Twin Pit Pour Flush Latrines (1992)
Ministry of Urban Development, GoI
Regional Water and Sanitation Group - South Asia.
UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Programme
In impervious rocky strata, since there will be no infiltration of liquid, the
pits will function as holding tanks. In such situations, a PF latrine with leaching pits is not
a suitable system.
3. Pits in Soils with Low Infiltration Capacity
Leaching capacity tends to be the limiting factor when the infiltrative capacity of
soil is low. In these circumstances, there are two options: construct a larger pit, or increase
the critical leaching area. The former option is costly, while the latter can be accomplished
by backfilling and compacting with brick ballast, gravel, sand etc., in the required width all
around the pit, since the leaching area is the vertical surface of the excavation of the pit
rather than the extemal wall of the pit.
Pits in Black Cotton Soil are designed on the basis of whether the pit is wet or dry,
taking the infiltration rate as 10 litres per sq. metre per day. However, a minimum 300
mm* vertical fill (envelope all around the pit) of sand, gravel or ballast of small sizes
should be provided all round the pit, outside the pit lining, to separate the soil and the pit
lining as well as to increase the infiltrative surface area.
4. Pits Where Space is a Constraint
Where circular pits of standard sizes cannot be constructed due to space constraint,
deeper pits with smaller diameter (not less then 750 mm), or combined oval, square or
A8.6



rectangular pits divided into two equal compartments by a partition wall, may be provided.
In case of combined pits, the partition wall, as well as the adjoining side walls up to 225
mm width, should not have any holes. The partition wall should be 225 mm deeper than the
pit lining. Both faces of the partition wall should be plastered in cement mortar 1:6.
5. Pollution Safeguards
Proper information and investigation of both geological! hydrogeological
conditions of sites where pits are to be located, and the location of drinking water sources,
size, all are pre-requisites in planning, designing and construction of on-site low cost
sanitation systems to ensure that pollution risk to ground water and water distribution
mains is minimal. Faulty construction and wrong data/ information regarding
hydrogeological conditions may lead to pollution of drinking water sources.
To ensure that the risk of polluting ground water and drinking water sources is
minimal, the following safeguards should be taken while locating the pits:
a. Drinking water should be obtained from another source or from the same aquifer but at
a point beyond the reach of any faecal pollution from the leach pits.
b. If the soil is fine (effective size 0.2 mm or less), the pits can be located at a minimum
distance of 3 m from the drinking water sources, provided the maximum ground water
level throughout the year is 2 m or more below the pit bottom (low water table). If the
water table is higher, i.e. less than 2 m below the pit bottom, the safe distance should
be increased to 10 m.
c.  If the soil is coarse (effective size more than 0.2 mm), the same safe distances as specified
above can be maintained by providing a 500 mm thick sand envelope, of fine sand of 0.2
mm effective size, all around the pit, and sealing the bottom of the pit with an impervious
material such as puddle clay, a plastic sheet, lean cement concrete, or cement stabilised soil.
A8.7



d. If the pits are located under a footpath or a road, or if a water supply main is within a
distance of 3 m from the pits, the invert level of the pipes or drains connecting the leach
pits should be kept below the level of the water main, or 1 m below the ground level. If
this is not possible due to site considerations, the joints of the water main should be
encased in concrete.
A8.8



ANNEXURE IX
VERMI COMPOSTING
(SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS IN NORTH PARUR MUNICIPAIITY)
Solid waste collected from different parts of the municipality is taken
to the 2.5 acres of dumping yard in the outskirts. The method used to decompose
the biodegradable waste is Wormicompost. For this purpose , 15 beds with 7.5 m
length, 1.2 m breadth and 15 cm depth are dug. Coconut fiber and pith mixture is put
into these pits and earth worms are set free into it The collected garbage is then
sorted for bio- degradable wastes which is further shredded. This will be dumped
into the beds, soaked with cow dung upto a height of 4 ft from the ground and
covered with wet gunny bags. Certain solid wastes not suitable for vermicompost
are sorted and dumped into another 7 compost pits (1O m length, 3 m width and one
m depth) for decomposing. These are watered twice a day. Within 50 to 60 days,
Vermicompost is ready When the decomposition is complete the worms will move
down to the ground This compost is an odorless material, easy to handle and is sold
out to the public There is heavy demand for this product now.
Non-biodegradable materials such as glass pieces, plastic wastes, iron pieces etc
are sorted and handled separately in this process. Women groups are engaged to do the
sorting and other related activities For this they are paid Rs 60 each per day.
A9.1



ANNEXURE X
A BILL
TO REGULATE AND CONTROL
THE EXTRACTION, USE OR TRANSPORT OF
GROUNDWATER AND TO CONSERVE GROUNDWATER
IN THE STATE OF KERALA
Preamble
WHEREAS it is expedient to regulate and control the extraction use or transport
of groundwater and conserve groundwater in the State of Kerala.
AND WHEREAS it is observed that the trend of development of groundwater in
some parts of the State is going on ignoring the actual groundwater re-charge of the those
areas;
AND WHEREAS it has been realised that erratic development of groundwater in
time and space that takes place in some areas could create undesired effects to the
environment of those areas;
AND WHEREAS it has been realised by the Government of Kerala that
groundwater is a critical resource of the state;
AND WHEREAS the Govt. of Kerala have; after careful examination of all
aspects related to groundwater development, decided that it is necessary in the public
interest to regulate and control the groundwater development in any form in the State of
Kerala;
BE it enacted in the forty-eighth year of the Republic of India as follows-
1. Short title, extent and commencement:-
(1). This Act may be called the Kerala Groundwater (Control and Regulation) Act
1997.
(2). It extents to the whole State of Kerala in a manner as specified.
(3) The act will operate fully in the area so notified by the Government. In the
remaining part of the State, assigned as non-notified area, only those sections/sub
sections of the Act will operate wherein it has been so specified.
(4). It shall come into force on such date as the Government, by notification in the
official Gazette, appoint for different areas of the State.
2. Definitions:- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a). "Act" means the Groundwater control and Regulation Act 1987;
A10.1



(b). "Authority" means Groundwater Authority, established in accordance with
section 3 Sub-section (1) of this Act;
(c). "Government" means the Government of Kerala;
(d). "Groundwater" means the water which exists below the surface of ground in an
Earth formation or in a group of Earth formations at any particular location;
(e). "Notified area" means the area notified under section 4 subsection (2)of the Act;
(f). "prescribed" means prescribed by Rules made under this Act;
(g). "Pumping well" means a well fitted with a pump driven by an electric motor or
oil engine of more than 1 HP or its equivalent capacity to draw water from the well.
(h). "Sink" with all its grammatical variation and cognate expressions includes,
digging, drilling, boring, driving in or tunneling of new wells or deepening carried out
to the existing wells.
(i). "User of groundwater" means the person or persons of an institution including a
company or an establishment, whether Government or not who or which own or use
groundwater from a well for any purpose including domestic use made either on a
personnel or community basis.
Provided that it will exclude the person or persons who use groundwater drawn
from a well using a pump driven by an electric motor or oil engine having capacity of
1 HP or less or its equivalent capacity or using manual devices like a hand pump,
rope and bucket and similar devices,
j). "Well" means any structure constructed on the Earth's surface to tap groundwater
by a person or persons except by the authorised officials of the State or Central
Government for carrying out investigations, development and use or management of
groundwater resources and includes open well, dug well, bore well, dug cum bore
well, tube well, collector well and infiltration gallery;
Provided that it will exclude open wells and dug wells used for household
purposes (domestic) by the owner/occupants of the premises within which it is
situated.
3. Competent Authority
(1). The government shall by notification in the official gazette, establish with effect
from such date as may be specified in the notification, an Authority to be known as
Groundwater Authority.
(2). The structure and strength of the Authority and matters related to the terms of
appointment and service conditions of its members shall be in such a manner as may
be presented.
(3). In order to enable the Authority to properly function or exercise the power under
the Act Government may appoint such number of technical personnel and other staff
as it may consider necessary.
(4). The function and the terms and conditions of service of such employees shall be
such as may be prescribed.
A10.2



4. Powers to notify areas for control and regulation of groundwater development
(1). Ground water Authority shall function under the overall control and supervision of the
government.
(2). If the Government on a report received from the Authority is of opinion that it is
necessary or expedient in the public interest to regulate the extraction or use or both of ground
water in any form in any area other than the notified areas the Government may by notification
in the official Gazette, declare any such area to be notified area for the purpose of this Act with
effect from such date as may be specified therein;
Provided that the date so specified in the notification shall not be earlier than three
months from the date of publication of the said notification.
(3).Every such notification shall in addition to their publication in official Gazette, be
published in not less than one daily news paper having circulation in the State and by
affixing a copy of the same to some conspicuous part of the offices of the Grama
Panchayat of the said area.
(4).If in the opinion of the Authority, the availability of the groundwater has
improved in a notified area, it may advise the Governnent to denotify such area and the
Government may do so according to the procedure, prescribed in sub section (2) of
section 4 for notifying the area.
5. Grant of permit to Extract and use ground water in the notified area
(1). Any user of groundwater (as defined under section 2 subsection (j) desiring to sink a
well in the notified area for any purpose either on personal or community basis, or to convert an
existing well to that of a punping well, shall apply to the Authority for grant of a permit for this
purpose, and shall not proceed with any activity connected with such sinking or conversion
unless a Permit has been granted by the Authority.
(2). Receipt of every application by the Authority shall be acknowledged in the manner
may be prescribed.
A10.3



(3). Every application under sub section (1) of section 5 shall be made in such form, shall
contain such particulars and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(4). On receipt of an application under sub-section (1) above if the Authority is satisfied
that it shall not be against public interest to do so, it may be grant, subject to such conditions
and restrictions as may be specified or refuse to grant a Pennit authorising the extraction and
use of groundwater.
Provided that no person shall be refused a permit unless he has been given an
opportunity of being heard.
(5). The decision regarding the grant or refusal of the permit shall be intimated by the
Authority to the applicant within a period of 60 days from the receipt of the application.
(6). Where the Authority to whom the application is made under sub-section (1) fails to
inform the applicant of its decision on the application within a period of ninety days from the
date of receipt of such application, the permit shall be deemed to have been granted to the
applicant and such person shall, for this purpose of this Act deemed to be a holder of a penrit.
Provided that the applicant is in receipt of any communication from the competent
Authority admitting the receipt of application by it in the prescribed time.
(7). In granting or refusing the permit under subsection (4) the Authority shall consider the
following matters:-
a). the purpose or purposes for which water is to be used.
A10.4



b). the existence of other users in the area.
c). the availability of groundwater.
d). quality of groundwater with reference to its users.
e). distance with adjoining wells and number of wells in the area and possible
interference of the well with existing wells.
(f). long-term behavior of groundwater level in the area.
(g). any other factor relevant thereto.
6. Registration of existing wells in the Notified area
(1). Every owner of existing wells in the notified area in the State shall within a period of
one hundred and twenty days from the date of establishment of the Authority will apply to the
Authority for the grant of a Certificate or Registration recognising the existing use in such form
and in such manner as may be prescribed.
Provided that the Authority may entertain any such application after the expiry of the aid
period of One Hundred and Twenty days if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by
sufficient causes from filling of application in time:
(2). The details to be furnished in an application under sub-section (1) shall include such
particulars and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(3). On receipt of an application under sub section (1) if the Authority is satisfied, that it
shall not be against the public interest to do so, it may grant subject to such conditions and
restrictions as may be specified or refuse to grant a Certificate of Registration.
Provided that no applicant shall be refused a Certificate of Registration unless the applicant
has been given an opportunity of being heard.
A10.5



(4). The decision regarding the grant or refusal of the Certificate of Registration shall be
intimated by the Authority to the applicant within a period of 90 days from the receipt of the
application.
(5). In granting or refusing of the Certificate of Registration under sub-section (3) the
Authority shall have regard to:
(a). the purpose or purposes for which water is to be used;
(b). the existence of other eligible users;
(c). the rate of re-change to the area of influences of the well;
(d). the quality of groundwater in the area;
(e). the long-term behavior of water level of wells.
(D. any other factor relevant thereto.
(6). The Certificate of Registration shall be in such form as may be prescribed.
(7). Pending communication by the Authority of the decision on the grant or refusal of the
Registration under Sub-section (1) every existing well owner in the notified area shall be
entitled to the continued use of groundwater in the same manner prior to the date of application.
(8). If a Registered well becomes defunct the fact should immediately be brought to the
notice of the Authority in writing by the owner.
7. Registration of user of groundwater in non-notified areas.
A10.6



(1). All users of groundwater as defined under section (2) sub section 0) in the State within
a period of 120 days from the date of establish of the Authority shall apply to the Authority for
the grant of a certificate of Registration for recognising the user as a Registered user of
groundwater in the State.
(2). On receipt of an application for registration under sub-section (1) if the Authority is
satisfied that it shall not be against the public interest to do so, it may grant, subject to such
conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed or refuse to grant a Certificate of Registration.
Provided that no applicant shall be refused a Certificate of Registration unless he has been
given an opportunity of being heard
(3).The sub clause (8) of clause (6) shall also be applicable.
(8). Prior to Alter, Amend or Vary the terms or the permit of Certificate of
Registration.
At any time after a permit or Certificate of Registration, as the case may be,
provided the owner has been given an opportunity of being heard;
Provided that before taking such action, the Authority shall ensure that the standing crop(s)
are not damaged by the decision.
9. Cancellation of Permit of Cerififcate of Registration
If the Authority is satisfied either on a reference made to it in this behalf or on the basis of
its own studies that;
A10.7



(a). the pernit or Certificate of Registration under the Act is not based on facts.
(b). the holder of the permit or Certificate of Registration has without reasonable cause
failed to comply with the conditions subject to which the permit or Certificate of Registration
has been granted or has contravened any of the provisions.of this Act or the rules made
thereunder, or
(c) a situation has arisen which wanrants limiting of the use or extraction of
groundwater in the area around the well,
then without prejudice to any other penalty to which the holder of the penmit or
of the Certificate of Registration as the case may be.
10. Powers of the Ground Water Authority
(1). The Authority or any person authorised by it in this behalf shall have power-
(a).   to enter on any property (private or Government owned) with the right to
investigate and make any measurements concerning the land or the water located on the surface
or the underground.
(b). to inspect the well which has been or is being sunk and the soils and other materials
excavated therefrom;
(c) to take specimens of such soils or other materials or of water extracted from such
wells.
(d) to require by order in writing, the persons sinking a well to keep and preserve in the
prescribed manner specimens of soils or any materials excavated therefrom for such period not
A10.8



exceeding three months from the date of completion or abandonment of the work as may be
specified by the Authority and thereupon such person shall comply with such requisition.
(e) to inspect and take copies of the relevant record or documents and ask any question
necessary for obtaining any information (including diameter or depth of the well which is being
or has been sunk; the level at which the water is or was struck and subsequently restored/rested,
the types of strata encountered in the sinking of the well and the quality of the water struck)
required for carrying out the purposes of this Act;
(f) to require the user of groundwater to install water measuring device on any water
supplies when necessary to properly administer the water or where there is reason to believe
that the user does not comply with the provisions contained in this Act or any other sufficient
reason for defending the public interest.
Provided that where the user of ground water does not
comply with the requisition issued to him within a
period of thirty days, the Authority itself may install
such water measuring device and recover the cost from
the defaulting user of groundwater;
(g) to seize any equipment/device for illegal sinking and destroy the work executed
fully or partly;
(h)   to require any user of groundwater, who does not comply with the provisions of
this Act and rules framed thereunder, to close down any water supply or destroy any hydraulic
A10.9



work found to be illegal according to the provisions of this Act and the rules framed
thereunder:
Provided that where the user of groundwater does not comply
with the requisition issued to him within a period of sixty days,
the Authority itself may carry out the necessary work and recover
the cost from the illegal user of ground water.
(i) to enter and search with such assistance, if any as it considers necessary, any place in
which it has reason to believe that offence under this Act has been or is being committed and
order in writing the person who has been or is committing the offence not to use the
groundwater for a specified period not exceeding thirty days.
(j). to exercise such other powers as the case may be necessary for canying out the
purposes of this Act or any rules made thereunder;
(2). The power conferred by this section includes the power to break open the door of
any premise where sinking, extraction and use of groundwater is going on;
Provided that (i) the power to break open the door shall be exercised only after the
owner or any other person in occupation of the premises, if he is present therein, refuse to open
the door on being called to do so;
(ii) No such entry shall be made after sunset and before sunrise.
(iii)Due regard shall, so far as feasible, be paid to social and religion customs
and usage's of the occupant of the premises entered into.
A10.10



(3). The provisions of the code of Criminal Procedure 1973 (2 of 1974), shall so far as
may be, apply to any search or seizure made under this Act.
(4) Where the Authority seizes any mechanical equipment/device under clause (g) of sub
section (1), it shall as soon as may be within ten days, inform a Magistrate and take his
orders as to the custody thereof.
11.Service or orders, etc.
(1) Every order under clause (d) or (f) of sub-section (1) of section 10 shall be served
(a) by giving or tendering the order of notice or by sending it by post to the user for
whom it is intended, or
(b) if such user cannot be found, by affixing the order of on some conspicuous part of his
last known abode or place of business or by giving or tendering the order of notice to
some adult male member or servant or his family or by causing it to be affixed on
some conspicuous part of the land or building in which the well is being sunk.
(2). Where the person on whom the order of a notice is to be served is a minor, service
upon his guardian in the manner provided in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be served
upon the minor.
12. Delegation of powers and duties
The Authority may, by general or special order in writing, direct that all or any of the
powers or duties which may be exercised or discharged by it shall, in such
circumstances and under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in its order be
exercised or discharged also by any employee of the Authority specified in this behalf
in the order.
13. Members and Employees of the Ground Water Authority to be public servants
All members and employees of the Authority shall when acting or purporting to act in
pursuance of the provisions of this Act or of any rules made thereunder be deemed to be public
servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Penal Code.
14. Protection Against Action Taken in Good faith
No prosecution, suit or other legal proceeding shall be instituted against the
Government, the Authority or any other officer of the Government or any member or other
A10.11



employees of the Authority for anything done or intended to be done in good faith under this
Act, or the rules made thereunder.
15. Cognizance and Trial of Offences
(1). No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except or by or with
the written consent of the Authority or a person authorised in this behalf by the Authority.
(2). No court interior to that of a Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence
under this Act.
16. Offences and Penalties
A. For Non receipt of Information.
If any user/owner of well contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
this Act or any rule made thereunder in supplying information as prescribed, the
person or group of persons shall be punishable-
(i)   for the first offence with fine which may extend to Rs. One Hundred and
(ii)   For the second and subsequent offences, with fine which may extend to Rs.
Two hundred.
B. For Illegal Sinking/Construction and/or Use of Wells.
If any user of groundwater or well owner
(a). contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Act or any rules
made thereunder, or
(b). obstructs the Authority or any other persons authorised by it to exercise any of
the powers under this Act.
The persons or group of persons shall be punishable-
(1) For the first offence with fine which may extend to Rs. One Thousand and
(2) For the second and subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to Rs.Five Thousand.
17. Compounding of Offences
Any offence under this Act the punishment of which does not exceed a fine of Rs. One
thousand may be compounded by the Authority in a manner as may be prescribed.
18. Offences by Companies
A10.12



(1) Whenever an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every
persons who at the time of offence is committed was in charge of or was
responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, shall
be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:
(2) Not withstanding anything contained in subsection (1), where an offence under this Act
has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect
on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to
be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such persons
liable to any punishment under this Act if he proves that offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due to diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
EXPLANATION:- For the purpose of this section-
(a) "Company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other
association or individuals, and
(b) "Director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firmn.
19. Appeals
(1). Any person aggrieved by a decision or action of the Authority under this Act may,
within a period thirty days from the date on which the action is taken or the-
Decision is communicated to him and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed,
prefer such an appeal to such authority as may be specified by the Government.
Provided that appellate authority may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the set
period of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient
cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2). On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the appellate authority shall, after
giving the appellant an opportunity of being heard, dispose of the appeal as expeditiously
as possible.
20. Power to Make Rules
A10.13



(1). The State Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, make rules to
canryout the purpose of this Act.
(2). In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such
rules may provide for:-
(a). the term of office and manner of filling vacancies and other conditions of
service among the Members and Chairman of the Authority.
(b). the functions and the terms and conditions of the service of the employees of
the Authority;
(c). any other manner of affecting service of the notification under sub-section (3)
of section 4;
(d).the form of application and Permit Certificate of Registration under various
section (3) of section 4;
(e). the manner in which the specimens of soils or other materials shall be kept
and preserved under clause (d) of subsection (l)m of section 10;
(f). specifying the appellate authority under sub-section (l)of section 20 and the
fees to accompany the applicant for appeal;
(g). any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed.
(3). Every rule may under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made
before the Legislative Assembly while it is in session for a total period of fifteen days
which may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if before the
expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following,
Assembly agrees in making in any modification in the rules or Assembly agrees that the
rule should not be made, the rule thereafter shall have effect only in such modified form
or be of no effect, as the case may be. However that any such modification on annulment
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything done earlier under that rule.
A10.14



